

401 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE STRATEGY; 
Leaders Face Challenges Far Different From Those of Last Conflict

BYLINE:  By TODD PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
The last time leaders named Bush, Cheney and Powell faced foreign aggression, their challenge was to marshal a skeptical public, a divided Congress and a reluctant alliance to fight the Persian Gulf war against a known foe on clear turf. Now a new President Bush -- and a Dick Cheney and a Colin L. Powell indelibly shaped by that experience a decade ago -- confront almost the opposite task.
 They face an aroused public, a unified Congress and an international alliance that is eager to help -- at least on the surface. But they must find ways to buy enough time and patience to conduct a new kind of long, 21st-century twilight struggle against a shadowy enemy -- or many enemies -- in unknown corners around the world. 
 "Let me tell you, the only way we can do this and keep the support of NATO is to clearly identify the tentacles, and then the octopus, and then the ink-squirter itself, and then gather it all together and say, 'Here they are, and are you ready for what will really be a total military assault,' " said former Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming. "At that point, we have to be so sure." 
Or as a former national security official from the Clinton years put it: "The hardest part of this is going to be to convince people to shut up and be patient."
Early polls suggest that Americans believe the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington will result in war, and that sizable majorities would support retaliation, even if innocent people were killed. The realities and complexities of any actual response seem all but certain to affect that support, whether the public winds up confronting American casualties in Afghanistan or civilian deaths elsewhere.
Vice President Cheney, a former secretary of defense, and Secretary of State Powell, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are patient and methodical men. They know the uses of military force, but, more important, its limitations. They are engaged in planning a global military campaign, not a quick strike or a brief battle. They are thinking in terms of years, not weeks.
And while they balked at marching on Baghdad or toppling Saddam Hussein at the end of the Persian Gulf war in 1991, they are now talking about "ending states who sponsor terrorism." Having witnessed the fall of the Soviet Union, they are fully aware of how cataclysmic such a change could be.
"This operation isn't going to be quick, or pretty, or certain," said Anthony H. Cordesman, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "To do anything at all is to invite an element of ambiguity. There's going to be casualties and collateral damage. That's why we call it war."
All week, senior administration officials have made it clear that they would not settle for largely symbolic strikes against suspected terrorist training camps or against a target identified as a military factory, the way the Clinton administration did after attacks on United States embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
"I was raised a soldier," Secretary Powell said at his briefing today. "And you're trained there is the enemy occupying a piece of ground. We can define it in time, space and other dimensions, and you can assemble forces and go after it.
"This is different. The enemy is in many places. The enemy is not looking to be found. The enemy is hidden. The enemy is, very often, right here within our own country. And so you have to design a campaign plan that goes after that kind of enemy, and it isn't always blunt-force military, although that is certainly an option. It may well be that the diplomatic efforts, political efforts, legal, financial, other efforts, may be just as effective against that kind of an enemy as would military force be."
The deputy secretary of defense, Paul D. Wolfowitz, made a similar point on Thursday when he said, "I think everyone understands that we have, unfortunately, entered a new era," as he outlined the administration's commitment to "removing the sanctuaries, removing the support systems, ending states who sponsor terrorism." It was Mr. Wolfowitz, as a top Pentagon official under Mr. Cheney, who devised the elder Bush administration's plan to solicit contributions from an alliance to help finance the Persian Gulf war.
In his homily at a prayer service at the Washington National Cathedral this morning, President Bush described the mission in even grander terms, saying: "Just three days removed from these events, Americans do not yet have the distance of history, but our responsibility to history is already clear: To answer these attacks and rid the world of evil."
That makes Woodrow Wilson's pledge to make the "world safe for democracy" sound simple by comparison.
Former President George Bush said Thursday: "It is far more difficult to fight an enemy who refuses to show his face."
The former senior national security official who asked not to be identified said there would be nothing easy about the task ahead. "There'll be the amount of resources we put into domestic surveillance, balancing that with civil liberties," the official said. "And then abroad, if we are talking about bin Laden, we're talking about a network that operates in different places. The United States, with our allies, has taken down a lot of these cells in the last two years, many more than people know. Finally, if there is a military component, we will have to define the objective in an achievable way."
If, as the weeks wear on, Saddam Hussein is shown to have had any hand in fostering the attacks, or exploits them for the instability they create in the Middle East, questions will doubtless resurface about why the first Bush administration, led by so many of the same people now in positions of power, did not press on to invade Iraq.
Besides Mr. Cheney, Mr. Powell and Mr. Wolfowitz, other veterans of the gulf war have roles in this administration, including Condoleezza Rice, then a Soviet expert on the National Security Council staff and now its head, and Richard N. Haass, then the Middle East expert at the N.S.C. and now director of the policy planning staff at the State Department.
The current President Bush, whose recent preoccupations have been the budget and taxes and fears of a faltering national economy, must also be all too aware, given his father's own example, how much those problems could still affect his fortunes, whatever his foreign policy successes or failures. Indeed, some of the biggest challenges may turn out to be at home.
"The challenge is to take all the pollsters and all the consultants and put that all aside," said former Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who now heads the New School University in New York. "This is the wealthiest nation on earth, and please don't tell me that you can't put enough money out there to make certain that men with hand knives and box cutters can't hijack four American planes within an hour. Now we know that every airplane that takes off in America is a bomb, fully loaded. So deal with it. Don't let the lockbox or ideology or anything else get in the way of that."
Mr. Kerrey, a combat veteran of Vietnam, also pointed out the psychological challenge for leaders and a public that have been quick to denounce the attacks as the work of cowards or madmen.
"I condemn it morally, and I do think it was cowardly," Mr. Kerrey said. "But physically, it was the opposite of cowardly, and if you don't understand that, then you don't understand the intensity of the cause and then you're papering over one of the most important things. There is hatred out there against the United States, and yes, we have to deal with terrorism in a zero-tolerance fashion. But there is anger, too, and they ought to have a place for a hearing on that anger, in the International Court or wherever we give them a hearing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President George Bush reached out to President Bush yesterday at a prayer service in Washington. (J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); TERRORISM (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); HIJACKING (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%) TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PERSIAN GULF WAR 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) PURDUM, TODD S; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); GULF STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



402 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: IN PAKISTAN; 
U.S. Demands Air and Land Access to Pakistan

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
In intensive talks here and in Washington over the last 72 hours, American officials have demanded that Pakistan agree if necessary to allow American ground troops and special forces units to operate from this country, senior officials said.
 Pakistan's ruling generals have also been told that they must allow Pakistan's airspace and its military airfields, as well as its powerful military intelligence apparatus, to be used for attacks against targets in Afghanistan that appear to be under review in Washington. 
 Beyond this, the officials said, the United States has demanded that Pakistan place the Taliban rulers of Afghanistan under what would amount to immediate siege, cutting off fuel (the Taliban's sole supply), denying use of Pakistani banks (crucial to what is left of the Afghan economy) and halting all other forms of support. Some of these demands were reported today in The Washington Post. 
All other countries that border landlocked Afghanistan, and particularly Iran, are hostile to the Taliban and support the Northern Alliance, which is fighting a rear-guard action to hang on to isolated pockets of territory that amount to about 10 percent of the country.
Without Pakistan, the Taliban, who play host to the terrorism suspect Osama bin Laden, would never have swept across Afghanistan and succeeded in imposing their purified and regressive form of Islam.
Confronted by the American demands, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan and a group of fellow generals met today in a tense, seven-hour conference at army headquarters, then delayed for at least another day any public response to President Bush's demand that they commit Pakistan to an all-out effort to capture or eliminate Mr. bin Laden and his network in Afghanistan.
The length of today's meeting itself suggests that even the military is divided on the issue.
A statement issued after the meeting, in Rawalpindi, 20 miles from Islamabad, said the generals had agreed on "recommendations" to put before the cabinet and National Security Council on Saturday.
The delay seemed to be a formality, or a bid to gain time on an issue that has thrown Pakistan into perhaps its most severe political crisis.
All the signs are that General Musharraf will agree to steps that will align Pakistan, at least formally, with the international coalition that the Bush administration wants behind it as it prepares military steps to smash the bin Laden network.
But the uncomfortable truth is that the attacks on New York and the Pentagon have heightened the quandary that Pakistan has confronted since it emerged as a nation in 1947: whether to continue to straddle the divide between pro-Western, secularist elements and deeply conservative Muslim groups, some with extremist agendas, or to cast the country's lot decisively with the West. 
Behind the wall of secrecy that surrounded today's discussions, it was a fair guess that one issue that caused dissension was the American demand for access to everything that Pakistan's shadowy military intelligence agency, the Interservices Intelligence directorate, or ISI, knows about the bin Laden network.
American officials want to know about his hideouts and his bases, how he supplies his mainly Arab force of several thousand men, and how he operates a supporting network that runs deep into Pakistan.
All or much of this is certainly known to the ISI, which has operated as a fief ever since it was designated as the key agency handling weapons flows, training and other support for the Muslim guerrillas fighting Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980's -- aid that was mainly American. 
The ties with the Afghans carried into the post-Soviet period in Afghanistan, with top ISI officers adopting pro-Islamic and anti-American views, and continuing to support some of the most militant guerrilla commanders when they formed the military backbone of the Taliban.
At crucial moments in the Taliban's rise, Pakistani officers in Afghan disguise and units of Pakistani troops reportedly provided the decisive edge in Taliban military operations. So it was no surprise today that one influential voice raised against accepting Mr. Bush's demands for cooperation was that of Hamid Gul, a retired general with links to pro-Taliban Islamic groups in Pakistan who was ISI chief in the closing years of the anti-Soviet struggle.
"Afghans defeated one superpower, and by the grace of God they will defeat another if the United States decides to attack Afghanistan," he said. 
On Islamabad's streets today, many Pakistanis offered sympathy for the United States. 
"Not good," said a 40-year-old minivan driver, Ejaz Hussain, when asked about the attacks. "Not good for New York, not good for America, not good for Pakistan." American reporters were greeted with handshakes in malls and hotels.
But in the mosques and in every village and town, Muslim clerics are powerful figures, and many have backed militant political groups that have links to the Taliban. 
"The destruction in America was God's warning in response to its anti-Muslim policies," Qari Hussain Ahmed Madani, a cleric in Peshawar, on the Afghan frontier, told worshipers. "A couple of attacks has turned America from a superpower to a zero power."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Pakistan-Afghanistan border as seen at Torkham, Pakistan, yesterday. Among American demands is that the Pakistanis close their border. (Associated Press) Map of Pakistan highlighting Islamabad: Islamabad has been the focus of demands from the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIRPORTS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); RELIGION (65%) TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) BURNS, JOHN F; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



403 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: REAL ESTATE; 
As Hard Hats Volunteer in Rubble, City's Building Boom Falls Into Doubt

BYLINE:  By RALPH BLUMENTHAL and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Construction in Midtown Manhattan has been stalled and some premier New York projects on the drawing board have been thrown into doubt because of the devastation wreaked downtown by the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, officials and construction executives said yesterday. 
 The biggest question mark, arts executives said, is the $1.5 billion reconstruction of Lincoln Center, an estimated 10-year effort that was to have been one of the largest cultural works projects in American history. The city alone had pledged $240 million. Most of the rest of the money was to be raised from corporate and private benefactors. 
 Work slowed or halted on many Midtown skyscrapers on Tuesday, after the 110-story twin towers at the World Trade Center were rammed by hijacked jetliners and collapsed, killing thousands of people and damaging surrounding office buildings.
To help in the rescue effort, ironworkers, steamfitters, crane operators, carpenters and laborers left work on the Westin Hotel at Eighth Avenue and 42nd Street, the AOL Time Warner headquarters under construction at Columbus Circle, and a half-dozen other projects. 
"No one was really on the job," said Stephen M. Ross, chairman of Related Companies, which is developing the 52-story AOL Time Warner Center. "All the construction jobs in the city were pretty much closed down because the skilled workers went downtown."
Developers hope that the workers will return to their jobs at the Midtown construction projects on Monday, as demolition workers take over at the World Trade Center. 
But developers and others are worrying that the long-term strains of clearing the downtown site and replacing an estimated 20 million square feet of space there will worsen the shortage of skilled workers in the city. And that, they say, could affect projects that have yet to begin, as well as some Midtown projects already under way.
Among those that may be threatened by the demands of new construction at the trade center site are the Guggenheim Museum project planned for the East River, the East River Plaza in Harlem, and the billion-dollar stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets. 
Not only do many of these projects require a huge commitment of skilled workers, but they also were to be heavily financed with city and state subsidies that now might be diverted to pay for the massive rebuilding.
The Lincoln Center renewal project is perhaps the most prominent one jeopardized. Marshall Rose, chairman of the Lincoln Center constituent group in charge of the project, said yesterday that he would meet over the next few weeks with members "who will collectively decide on the next steps, but as of now the project is going ahead as planned."
Yet in a letter to members sent on Thursday, two days after the attacks, he noted that many members had called for more time to review the plan, and that a "four-month feasibility review period is a suggestion."
Privately, top cultural officials said that the immense scope of the project made it likely that it would be put off if not altogether scrapped.
Speaking in general, and not specifically of Lincoln Center, Joseph Volpe, general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, said of the attack: "This has major, major implications for the whole city. One would have to rethink every new and proposed project in the city based on recent events."
The construction plan calls for rebuilding Avery Fisher Hall, making major additions to many buildings and possibly creating a new home for the New York City Opera. The project has already provoked disputes, with the Met briefly withdrawing earlier this year over what it called a lack of consultation. It rejoined the project under modified rules. 
Some arts officials said that in view of the huge financial losses suffered by many corporations and business titans in the bombing, they might no longer be counted on to underwrite the redevelopment. The city's commitment could also be uncertain. It was unclear, too, whether the daunting effort downtown would stretch the availability of construction workers. 
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki have both vowed to rebuild at the trade center site, and the federal government has promised to provide about $20 billion for the whole area. But executives said they feared huge problems.
Two electrical substations were knocked out by the collapse of the twin towers. And a shortage of electricians, sheet metal workers and other skilled labor has only grown with the pace of construction since the late 1990's.
Edward J. Malloy, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council, a union alliance, said that it was just beginning to assess the need for thousands of additional construction workers.
Mr. Malloy said that he expected to augment the work force with young people looking for a new career and workers from parts of the country where the economy is weak. "It's a daunting challenge to our industry," he said, "to rebuild what was taken away from us."
The huge undertaking of rescue and cleanup downtown siphoned vast armies of workers from most projects in Midtown, leaving them at a near standstill.
The work force at Tishman Speyer's office building at 222 East 41st Street dropped to 70 from 180. Earlier this week, there were only 75 workers, down from 400, at the Morgan Stanley tower under construction at Seventh Avenue and 50th Street. And no one was working on the excavation at Madison Avenue and 42nd Street where Brookfield Financial Properties is building a new headquarters for the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. Union workers went downtown in response to city appeals for help, as well as a spontaneous desire to contribute to the rescue effort.
As heroic as the effort was, some construction executives rued the loss of their work force. The primary need downtown, they said, was for ironworkers, but nearly every trade responded in force.
"It was the biggest mistake we could have made," said Peter J. Davoren, senior vice president of Turner Construction, whose company is managing all three projects. "It was really upsetting. It left a void in the construction of our current Midtown projects. They are so important because that real estate needs to be on line immediately to free up other space for the dispossessed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rescue workers and volunteers passing buckets of debris up the line early yesterday. Work slowed at Midtown projects this week as construction workers volunteered downtown. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); TERRORISM (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); HISTORY (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AOL INC (91%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



404 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: 1 Angry Man 

BYLINE:  By Barry Gewen; Barry Gewen is an editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
 A TRIAL BY JURY
By D. Graham Burnett.
183 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $21.
 In February 2000, D. Graham Burnett served as foreman on one of the most contentious juries this side of "12 Angry Men," and once the four days of deliberations were concluded he set out to do what so many former jurors dream about doing but never get around to: he wrote a book about his experience. Burnett brings several strengths to the task. He is a graceful, economical writer, with a sharp eye for detail and a nuanced feel for character. He never loses his sense of the ridiculous. By turns humorous and dramatic, "A Trial by Jury" speeds along; it can be devoured in a single sitting. Any reader who has gone through a tour of jury duty is likely to respond to this engaging book with a glow of recognition. (And anyone who hasn't can indulge in the pleasure of schadenfreude.)
The People of New York v. Monte Virginia Milcray was a tawdry case. On Aug. 1, 1998, Milcray killed Randolph Cuffee, stabbing him more than 20 times. Milcray claimed that he had acted in self-defense. He said that Cuffee, who ran a gay escort service, had lured him to his apartment and, dressed as a woman, had tried to rape him. Milcray's story was not particularly credible, but then neither was anything that anyone else said. The state's case was built on a collection of characters out of Manhattan's multisexual demimonde -- drag queens, crack addicts, male prostitutes. The star prosecution witness was a flamboyant, self-possessed cross-dresser named Nahteesha Breen, "her diction and intonation smoldering like a young Lauren Bacall's." Not to be outdone by this parade of Village people was the (unnamed) judge in the case, a sadistic martinet, as portrayed here, who seemed to enjoy humiliating everyone around him except the transvestites. Burnett calls him "a dry and disagreeable man . . . a sour bone, a humbug autocrat." Another juror termed him "the rudest person she had ever met." He would turn out to have a surprising role in helping the jury to arrive at a unanimous verdict.
Any expectation the 12 jurors might have had that life would imitate art, that they would be presented with a crisp, clear set of facts from which to render an informed and impartial judgment, probably went out the window by the time the first witness finished testifying. In this courtroom the gods of incompetence and confusion presided. The police had neglected to gather crucial evidence from the murder scene. On the stand they contradicted one another. The defense counsel violated the first rule of the trial lawyer's handbook: he failed to anticipate the answers to his questions, with the result that witnesses were able to make a fool of him. Trying to besmirch the victim, he insinuatingly asked Nahteesha about the dildos and whips that were found in Cuffee's apartment. "Honey," she replied, "we all have whips." The prosecution was no better. When the soft-spoken defendant took the stand, the only strategy the assistant district attorney could think of was to bully him, swinging the murder weapon wildly in an exaggerated re-enactment of the crime. Burnett writes, "So egregious did I find the whole performance that . . . I felt a deep desire to see the prosecutor lose the case."
If the jurors weren't sufficiently flummoxed by this procession of bunglers, the judge made sure to complete the job. His charge to the jury was so complicated, in Burnett's words so "Thomistic," that it took them much of the first two days of deliberations just to work their way through the instructions (which the judge refused to write down for them). They had no ground rules, no procedures to follow, no agreement on the facts. "The thing I felt most strongly," Burnett says, "was that the case defied judgment on the evidence we had available." They were 12 proverbial blind people poking around at the elephant -- and one of indeterminate sex at that.
Much of the book's humor derives from the author's own personality. Burnett reveals himself to be an aloof, donnish historian of science, something of a stiff ("I had worn a tie practically every day since grammar school") and so fastidious about food that he filled a duffel bag with fruit, nuts and vegetables so that he wouldn't have to eat at the restaurants the jurors were taken to during sequestration. Deeply orderly, proudly rational, this Mr. Chips had to cope with the chaos of 11 fellow jurors racing off in every direction.
No sooner had they received the case than an impasse threatened to end all discussion. Burnett wanted to start, logically he thought, with a vote to see how many believed Milcray was guilty of something before considering the various charges of murder and manslaughter. Others, less eager to win the Logician of the Year award, insisted on determining what Milcray was guilty of before deciding if he was guilty of anything. A frustrated Burnett suggested they vote on how to proceed, but one of his colleagues argued that any such vote had to be unanimous. Should they now vote on whether their vote had to be unanimous? An infinite regress beckoned. "So this is where constitutions come from," Burnett thought to himself. One juror persistently demanded to have almost all the testimony read back to them, an exercise that would have taken several days. Another felt they should ignore the law and consider nullification. A third suggested that "we need a more sensual approach." There was shouting, there was cursing, there were tears. Someone got sick, someone else tried to sneak away.
Yet through it all, progress was made, and the comedy turned serious once they began to reflect on the difference between the demands of justice and the demands of law. Apparently no one believed that Milcray had clean hands, and though most felt that the prosecution had failed to prove him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, they were uncomfortable about letting him go scot-free. A few began searching for a compromise in a manslaughter conviction, even if the facts of the case didn't warrant it. Finally, a domestic missionary in Spanish Harlem, a former methadone addict and cowboy, made a speech that turned things around. "I believe Monte Milcray did something very, very wrong," the man said. "But I also believe that nobody has asked me to play God. I've been asked to apply the law. Justice belongs to God; men only have the law. Justice is perfect, but the law can only be careful."
Burnett reinforced the point. The prosecution's burden of proof had to be very high, he declared, because the state's power was so strong. They had all learned something about that power in recent days, he observed. "We discovered that a man in a chair and a robe could tell us we couldn't go home, that we couldn't talk to our families, that we couldn't even talk to a lawyer. He could send us to jail. . . . We discovered that, in the end, there seemed to be no limit to the power of the state over us, once we fell into its hands." Thinking about the tyrannical behavior of the judge over the course of the trial, the last doubter caved. Milcray walked away a free man, but none of the jurors cheered.
Burnett went home tearful, exhausted, to resume a life that now seemed surprisingly banal and insignificant. Those who have ever sat on an important case will understand his reaction. Locked in a room with 11 often discordant strangers, struggling to reach a decision on matters of genuine consequence, one focuses with a degree of attention and concern rarely achieved in the everyday world. Burnett calls his experience "the most intense 66 hours of my life"; others have said that they have never learned so much about themselves. Existentialist philosophers might describe jury duty as a path to authenticity. No wonder so many people find their time as jurors so rewarding -- even if it seems painful while they are going through it -- and bore their friends and family for weeks afterward as they pick over every detail of their story. Burnett has made much more worthwhile use of his days in the courtroom. He has given us this irresistible book.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Blegvad) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (87%); MURDER (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); VERDICTS (78%); MEN (77%); LITERATURE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); JUDGES (73%); JURY DUTY (73%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); SELF DEFENSE (66%); PROSTITUTION (65%); COCAINE (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: GEWEN, BARRY; BURNETT, D GRAHAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: TRIAL BY JURY, A (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



405 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4864 words

HEADLINE: My Ordeal In A Chinese Cell 

BYLINE:  By Gao Zhan as told to Alix Spiegel; Gao Zhan is a faculty fellow at American University. Alix Spiegel is a contributing editor of "This American Life" on Public Radio International.

 BODY:
This is a story I'm not supposed to tell, a story you're not supposed to hear.
It begins on Feb. 11, the final day of a three-week vacation to visit family in China. My husband, my son and I were staying in a hotel near Tiananmen Square, and we got up early for our 9 a.m. flight. As Donghua dressed Andrew, I went to the front desk to pay the bill. When I got downstairs, there were a number of people standing in the lobby, maybe 15 or 20, and I noticed that many of them were looking at me. It is common for the Chinese to stare at anyone who looks somewhat Western, and after living in America for the last 12 years, I knew I did, so I didn't think much of it. I just paid up and climbed into a taxi with my family. Later, I was told that the men in the lobby were secret police. Evidently, there are about 200 secret agents working in that hotel every day. On that morning, about 20 of them were watching us. Twenty agents for myself, my husband and our son. Twenty agents for a scholar, a computer geek and a 5-year-old child. 
 At the time, of course, I knew nothing of this. I didn't have a clue. I had no sense of being surrounded or watched, even after we were stopped at airport security. All our luggage was opened -- even my son's Rugrats suitcase. Every piece of clothing, every book, every CD, was examined. They went through my address book and diary, turned on my husband's computer. It took about 40 minutes, and by the time they let us go, I was so angry that I threatened to bring it to the attention of the authorities. 
 As we started toward the Northwest ticket counter, I was still furious, still complaining, and I remember that my son said to me, "Mom, ignore them." It's funny to think about now, but my last words to Andrew -- the very last thing I said to my son for six months -- could not have been more innocent: "Yes, ignore them."
At that moment, at that moment exactly, we were stopped by a man dressed in street clothes. He stood in front of my family and said very firmly, "Ms. Gao, Mr. Xue." When a total stranger in a Chinese airport identifies you by name, you know that you're in trouble. I realized immediately that somehow we had been watched. Several of my friends had been detained, just questioned for a few hours and then released, and like everyone I had heard stories of known dissidents being held by the secret police for long periods of time. But I am not a dissident; I'm a scholar. In 1989, I came to the United States to study sociology at Syracuse University. Since 2000, I've been a researcher at American University in Washington. My area of study involves women, family, marriage and immigration, so it never occurred to me that my work could be considered sensitive. Which is why, when the man told us to follow him, I was more irritated than frightened. I asked the man who he was, and he told me he worked for the Beijing State Security Bureau. I remember I cast a quick glimpse at the ticket counter; it was only 20 feet away. I thought about running to it and asking for help. I considered yelling and making a scene, but I didn't. I suppose I thought they would just question us for a couple of hours, then let us go.
He took us downstairs to a large public space where another 20 or 30 agents were waiting for us. Then the casually dressed man turned to my husband and said, "Mr. Xue, will you come with us?" He gestured to a door. My husband told the man that our family would not be separated. Then the man said this: "We will be polite first, and use force second." In Chinese the phrase is only four characters: polite first, force second. Simple enough for my son to understand. Again my husband refused and again the man repeated the phrase: polite first, force second. 
My husband turned to me, and for a solid minute, maybe longer, we just stood there, looking at each other. I guess my husband was trying to ask me what to do, silently. But I didn't say a word. I didn't tell him to go ahead; I didn't tell him to stay behind. I didn't utter a sound. I just stood there, dozens of thoughts flashing through my mind, and looked in his eyes. The huge hall seemed still, all these agents standing around looking at us, as if we were all frozen in the moment. 
Then an agent came over and grabbed my husband's arm, said, "Let's go!" and pulled Donghua through a nearby door out of the airport. Donghua kept looking back at me and Andrew until he disappeared into a car. I felt like crying or screaming but didn't, or couldn't. I remember thinking, This is a mistake. 
Next, the same man turned to me and said, "Ms. Gao, follow me." So Andrew and I followed him to the same door. When we got outside the man said flatly: "You have to give us your son. We will put him somewhere else." 
Even after they took my husband, I couldn't imagine that they would separate me from my son. I didn't think anyone would do such a thing. I looked at the man and shook my head. I told him in an angry but calm voice that it was impossible. Then the man said the same thing to me that he had said to my husband: polite first, force second. 
Andrew said nothing. He stood next to me and I held his hand tightly in mine. I didn't have a chance to look at him; I was too busy staring, staring blankly I think, staring in shock at this man. Without breaking my gaze I said again, "I will not let you take my son away." 
For a couple of minutes we stood like that, me staring at him, him at me. Then, two female agents walked up to us and ripped Andrew's hand from mine. Still Andrew said nothing. He didn't even cry. I didn't cry either. As they were walking him away from me, I couldn't even look in his direction. All I could do was stare at this man. There was no thought, only a feeling of pure physical pain in my chest and a numbness in my arms and legs. Finally I was able to turn my head, and I watched as Andrew was put into a car. He was looking at me as if he didn't understand what was going on. Why was his mother letting these strangers take him? 
Then the man said, "Let's go!" And this time they didn't wait -- they pushed me into another car and drove away.
Two female agents in the back seat of the car took my glasses and covered my eyes with a blindfold. When I asked where they were taking me, I was ignored. When I asked about my husband and child, I was ignored. We drove for 40 minutes, maybe an hour, in silence. Eventually, someone turned on the radio -- there was some news about the Olympics, the Beijing application. 
Finally we arrived somewhere. They removed my blindfold, and I was taken inside a three-story Western-style house. I was taken to a small room with two long tables and three chairs. One of the chairs was facing the other two across the table. I was told to sit in it. Across from me was a pale-looking man sitting near a large, glaring light. I asked how long they would detain me. He said he had a warrant for 24 hours and this made me feel better; I thought I could stand 24 hours. My interrogation started immediately. He asked about my whole biography, my education from elementary school through university. He wanted to know everything. Then he asked about my family. My father's occupation, my mother's birthdate, my brother's favorite activities. The look on his face was frightening -- half stern, half condescending. 
After several hours, I asked to use the bathroom. A female guard followed me in. I asked her to leave but she refused. I stood staring at her, my humiliation and fury growing. After a couple of minutes, I told her that I had lived in a civilized country for 12 years and that I was not accustomed to being watched while using the toilet. Finally she agreed to step outside, but she insisted on keeping the door ajar. 
I was questioned until 2:30 a.m. Then I was taken to another small room next to the interrogation room to sleep. But sleep was impossible. Over and over again, I thought about the scene at the airport. Why hadn't I spoken to my husband, told him not to worry? Why hadn't I explained what was going on to my son, hugged him, comforted him, told him that I loved him? Why didn't I scream, kick, bite, cry -- anything? How could I have allowed my son to be taken without a word? How could any mother fail in such a way? 
Two female guards sat on a sofa next to my bed. They weren't allowed to sleep during the night. I pulled my blanket over my head. I didn't want them to see me cry. I was afraid they would report it to the interrogator, and I didn't want him to think I was weak. Under the blanket I cried for my son, for Donghua, for myself. I was very careful and made no noise, just let the tears stream down my face silently.
The first 24 hours came and went, and still I was held. I kept asking myself: Why am I here? Why, why, why? What have I done? Toward the end of the first session, my interrogator had begun to question me about my academic work on Taiwan. I had written two papers comparing the political participation of Taiwanese women with their counterparts on the mainland. But I couldn't imagine that this sociological work could truly preoccupy the Chinese government. I was not an activist, not particularly political. There were many people who fit my profile: academics from the mainland who were living in the States. Why had they chosen me? And what was happening to Donghua and Andrew? My husband and I were permanent U.S. residents but not U.S. citizens. Andrew, however, was. Would that protect him in any way? 
Every day for the next five weeks was the same. I passed from my bedroom to the interrogation room and back again. I was not allowed downstairs, not allowed outside. I didn't put on my shoes -- there was no need. Each morning I'd be brought into the interrogation room, and my interrogator would stick the light in my face and say: "Gao Zhan, today is a new day! Yesterday, your attitude was not very good, perhaps, you'll have a good attitude today! I will remind you again: our party's policy has always been leniency for those who confess, severe punishment for those who resist." 
Then for 10 hours I would be asked all kinds of questions. What did you do on your first trip to Taiwan? Whom did you see? What did you say? What did you eat? When was your second trip to China? How long did you stay? What articles did you read? Where did you go? Sometimes he would ask questions that had no answers: Do you remember what you wore in the summer of 1991? It was infuriating and absurd. I remember thinking he was trying to drive me crazy. 
Mostly though, my interrogator was interested in my affiliation with an academic group in America called Chinese Scholars of Political Science -- I was treasurer. In particular, he was deeply suspicious of my relationship with Li Shaomin, a fellow scholar who was teaching in Hong Kong and had been arrested for spying at around the time I was detained. Li's father had been jailed in 1989 for supporting the Tiananmen Square protests, and the younger Li was not allowed into China for a time. In 1993, while I was still working on my Ph.D., I gave Li photocopies of books and articles that I had gathered on a trip to the mainland. They were all so insignificant that I can't even recall what they were. This lack of memory greatly upset my interrogator. He wanted to know what the books and articles were about, how long they were and what Li said when I gave them to him.
He also questioned me relentlessly about materials I collected for my and my colleagues' research. Most of these were documents that could be found in books and articles you could buy in any bookstore or newsstand in China, but there were also a small number of documents that I was given from a quasi-government office. These included regulations for Taiwanese journalists working on the mainland -- rules that the journalists were supposed to know -- and statistics about marriage between Taiwanese men and Chinese women for a paper I wrote on Taiwanese-Chinese relationships. I never considered these materials sensitive, but they were designated "internal." Of course, most information in China is labeled "internal," including some that's available in bookstores, and it's common practice for scholars to use and pass on "internal" documents as a basis for academic work. It's so routine that I never gave it a second thought. My interrogator, of course, didn't share this view. 
From the beginning I hated my interrogator, and every day I hated him more. I could sense that he was trying to break me, and our sessions were a constant mental battle. Sometimes he'd pound his fists on the table, tell me that he knew what I had done. I should confess! I would suffer the consequences! My husband and my son would suffer the consequences! Other times, we would be talking quietly and I would think that at last he understood that I had done nothing. That I would be released and that everything would be O.K. But then, out of the blue, he would begin to scream again. It would continue that way -- smiling, screaming, smiling, shouting, smiling, scolding -- all day long. His face could change in an instant, and I never had time to prepare emotionally for the shift. I tried to stay strong. I never begged. I never shed tears while he was shouting at me. When he played mind games, I would play them right back. I would answer his questions with questions. I would answer his screams with silence. 
I broke down only once. It was about 10:30 p.m. in the interrogation room. Every day I asked him about Donghua and Andrew, and every day he told me that I should worry only about myself. This night he began the session by shouting that he would keep my husband and son in China until I confessed. He told me that I had ruined my husband's and son's lives, and I guess, inside, I believed he was right. I had nothing real to confess, but without a confession my husband and Andrew would not be allowed to return to their lives. I felt trapped. My head turned hot and then cold, and I started to feel dizzy. I had a deep pain in my chest. And then I started to cry. I asked for a break. "I thought you were strong," my interrogator said, smiling wryly.
One day, after about five weeks, the interrogations simply stopped. I was hopeful that they were finished with me, that they would let me go. To pass the time, I chatted with the female detention guards. They were curious about life in America. They asked about the schools, the shopping, the best way to apply to American universities. They wanted to know about the flowers, the landscape, my marriage. They were all extremely young, just out of college, and I thought they seemed very innocent. They knew almost nothing about the facts of my case, only what they overheard through the walls of the interrogation room, and they didn't seem particularly interested. Their hearts weren't in it. I remember that one day I said to them: "If you have any possible way of getting away from your current job, you should do it. It's too harsh for young girls." They seemed to agree. Many of them wanted to come to America. 
On April 2, almost two months after arriving, I was unexpectedly called into the interrogation room. There were two video cameras and two new faces. My interrogator's voice was soft, almost sympathetic. His tone made my heart sink. He told me I was formally under arrest for spying; they were sending me somewhere else.
I was blindfolded for the drive to the detention center. As I sat in the back, I heard on the radio that a U.S. spy plane had collided with a Chinese military fighter jet over China. There were words of condemnation from Chinese officials and ordinary citizens, and I worried about the implications for my case.
That night at the center, I was strip-searched and handcuffed. It was the first time in my life I had seen cuffs up close, and they were on my own wrists. For the second time since my abduction, I broke down. 
The detention center was completely different from the temporary detention house. My cell was small, with an open toilet and a large wooden board for sleeping. Food and water were free, but I had to pay for soap, toilet paper, clothing and toothpaste. Fortunately, I had some money on me when I was arrested at the airport
The center was organized so that no one ever saw another prisoner unless she was sharing a cell. I learned that most of the cells had five occupants and that by Chinese standards this number was a great luxury. Later I found out that this facility was one of the best in China -- a place for suspects with international backgrounds and former high-ranking government officials. I had only one cellmate, a 21-year-old woman who was sentenced to a year in prison for stealing 1,300 yuan, about $150. She had been transferred from another prison, and she said that there they lived 20 or more to a room. 
I spent many hours listening to my cellmate talk about her life. She was a peasant from northern China with little schooling. Her mother left when she was 6 years old, and her father beat her constantly. She told me about growing up in her family, her experiences committing petty crimes, but I kept my own history hidden. I didn't want to tell her about my Ph.D. or that I lived in America. I was afraid my education and background would create a gulf between us. I was very lonely, and I desperately needed a companion. To win her trust I paid her expenses and tried to shield her from the prison guards. 
My life in detention passed very slowly. I would sit in our cell and count each hour. Every morning a loudspeaker in the cell -- which also concealed an eavesdropping device -- would wake us at 6:30. We would listen to a half-hour of government propaganda. This was followed by board sitting -- we were required to sit very straight on the beds in our cells and reflect on our crimes -- and finally, a recitation of the rules. 
The rules. It was against the rules to sing or speak loudly. Against the rules to exchange information with your cellmate, speak of government officials in a derogatory way or walk too slowly to the door when your number was called. No one was to speak of his or her crime. No one was to reveal anything about his or her identity at all. We were not permitted to lie down in our cells during the day, or cover our eyes to shield them from the lights. The lights were on at all times.
In the afternoon there was more board sitting -- more contemplation of our crimes and failings. Of course, I spent most of these hours thinking about Donghua and Andrew; I thought about them all the time. The morning was always the most painful for me. I would wake up from dreams, just dreams of daily life -- taking Andrew to Toys "R" Us or buying Donghua a shirt at J.C. Penney -- and suddenly find myself back in my cell. I would feel a desperate sadness, and there was nothing around to distract me. I prayed for a coma. I wished to sleep my life in prison away. 
One evening, my cellmate and I were sitting together while I was telling her a story from the Bible. Earlier in the day, one of the prison guards was cruel to her -- mocking her for having no money -- and I came to her defense. That night, as we were talking, she leaned over very close to my ear and whispered -- so that the eavesdropping monitors couldn't pick it up -- that she had been sent to my cell to watch me. She told me she would be rewarded with reduced jail time if she reported something of value. She said that she thought I treated her very well, and she didn't want to do it. I don't think she ever did. 
As time went on I became more and more depressed. I would remain silent for most of the day. I even stopped talking to my cellmate. I still couldn't figure out why I was being held, but I developed a couple of theories. Last January, a book called "The Tiananmen Papers" was published in America. It contained information -- said to be genuine state secrets, including specific information about how the decision was made to crack down on the prodemocracy protesters -- that was embarrassing to the government. I had heard that top Chinese officials were enraged by the leaks. During the months after publication, six scholars, including myself, were arrested for "spying." I imagined that these arrests were a kind of retaliation, a general warning to Chinese academics everywhere. The second theory was that the government simply wanted to use me as a source of information. As treasurer of the Chinese Scholars of Political Science I had many contacts in both the Asian and American academic communities. I got the impression that my interrogator didn't actually believe I was a spy but thought that he could use me to learn more about China's potential enemies. 
Then one day, on July 10, two lawyers came to see me. It was the first time I had any solid information about Donghua and Andrew. It turned out that the government had detained and interrogated Donghua for several weeks. They had asked him about my research, my trips to Taiwan and my contacts in the States and in Taiwan. Despite Donghua's request that Andrew stay with relatives during that time, the government kept him in a state-run children's facility. After 26 days, both were released and immediately flew home. Upon returning, Donghua hired an American lawyer, Jerome Cohen, who sent two Chinese lawyers to the detention center to meet with me about my defense. The lawyers were under pressure to make our meeting short and not convey much information. They quickly read a list of things from sheets of paper that Donghua and Cohen had given them. I remember the first thing on the list: "Andrew is fine, he is going to be a first-grader in September."
When I heard Andrew's name, my body began to shake. I was crying and laughing at the same time. I could barely concentrate on anything else. The rest flew by in a dizzying jumble: Donghua had spoken with senators, congressmen, the international press. Resolutions were being passed on my behalf. President Bush and Secretary of State Colin Powell were concerned with the case. I was astonished, almost disoriented. I never imagined that the American public -- the American government -- would be interested in my case. 
A few days after meeting my lawyers, I was indicted. It was July 13, the day the 2008 Olympics were awarded to China. Eleven days later, my case was brought to trial. It was lightly raining, and a huge crowd had assembled outside the courthouse gate. As the car I was in pulled into the driveway, I looked through the tinted window and saw my father-in-law and mother-in-law standing in the rain, looking anxiously at the passing cars. Looking for me. My mother was also there, but I didn't see her. I felt deeply ashamed. I had always been the most successful child, the glory of my family. My parents were very proud of me. When we visited in February, my father took me around the neighborhood, showing me off and telling all his friends that his youngest daughter had come home for the Chinese New Year. 
In the courtroom, the prosecutors presented their case -- primarily a list of articles I was accused of taking out of China -- to three judges while my lawyers tried to defend me. The whole process lasted less than three hours, then I was led downstairs to the waiting room. 
While I waited, I thought about the possible verdicts. Since I had done no more than collect academic articles and documents, might they simply let me go? And if they convicted me? I imagined that they might sentence me to the six months served as a way to show that I really was some sort of threat. After 40 minutes, I was led back up. The court secretary said, "All rise." "All" meant 11 people: the secretary, 3 judges, 2 prosecutors, 2 defense lawyers, 2 court police officers and me. There were no jurors, no relatives, no U.S. Embassy officials. The presiding judge stood to read the decision. She said that she found the evidence true and the charges justified. She sentenced me to a 10-year term. Ten years. Ten years. I really can't remember that moment. I know I didn't cry. Ten years is beyond tears.
That night, as I lay in my cell, I thought about my life until that moment. I thought about Donghua, our time together for the last 14 years, the first day we met, our wedding. At about 3 a.m. I made a decision. I decided to divorce him. It seemed like the right thing to do. It seemed like the only thing to do. I didn't want my son to live without a mother; I didn't want my husband to live without a wife. With tears streaming down my cheeks and the pain in my chest intensifying, I wrote a letter to my husband in my mind. It began with this sentence: "Donghua, I will love you every day for the rest of my life."
The next day I could barely speak. i started to think that the outcry from the States had backfired. The Chinese government had been forced to justify my initial arrest with a 10-year sentence. Perhaps my husband's efforts to bring me home quickly had produced the very result that we most feared. 
Around noontime I was called out of my cell and told I would meet with my lawyer. When I walked into the room, to my amazement, he was smiling. "I have some good news for you," he said. The whole world opened up. 
I was released the next day. I had been granted medical parole because of a heart problem I have had for years. It was a political move, no doubt. After I was convicted and sentenced, Secretary of State Powell expressed concern over my case, along with the cases of other scholars who were U.S. citizens or permanent residents. And Powell was scheduled to arrive in Beijing to meet with China's president, Jiang Zemin. No doubt the Chinese government didn't think it was worth upsetting the delicate relationship with the United States over this issue. Granting medical parole was a way to alleviate America's concern while saving face.
Before I left, the interrogators from the detention house and the detention center came to me with several documents, including an agreement stating that as a condition of my parole, I must not talk about my time in detention. The detention-center interrogator said: "You are Chinese, with black hair and yellow skin; you know what to do. You know what is best for your country and family." He repeated this several times.
Even though I signed the agreement, I suppose I knew that I would speak out. In my heart I knew. I have suffered a great injustice, and I'm dedicated to clearing my name. Still, I have grave concern for my family -- and my husband's -- most of whom remain in China. When we moved to America 12 years ago, I never expected to stay. I wanted to return to the mainland and do a talk show, something on family and marriage, along the lines of Oprah or Dr. Laura. There are so many divorces in China today, so many families breaking up, I wanted to use my academic specialty to help. I also wanted to live near my family, to serve my parents after being away so long. 
But now this is impossible -- any life in China is impossible. After my detention, after going public with my story, I will not be permitted back in the country. This pains me greatly because it means I will never see my father again. He is old now, 76, and has a serious heart ailment; he cannot travel. He and my mother have suffered enormously over the past months -- both of my parents were hospitalized several times during my detention -- and I'm afraid they will continue to suffer. The government has made many harsh and distorted statements against me, and most people think I'm a spy. This is especially difficult for my father, who was a government worker all his life and tends to believe whatever the government says. My mother told me that during my detention, my father stopped listening to the radio, even stopped watching TV. He wouldn't go out; he was afraid to be seen by his friends. 
I have always been my father's favorite daughter, the family success. Now all that has changed. After I was released and returned to my home in the United States, I called my parents. I spoke to my father, and I could hear the tightness in his voice. It got to the point where I had to say: "Father, I didn't do what I was accused of doing. Please, trust me." He told me that he had always thought his life would end happily, peacefully, but because of my incident, he believes that this is impossible. "Don't say anything about your experience, just let it go, like nothing happened to you," he said to me. This made me cry. Once again I feel trapped. But this time I'm caught between my family and my need to tell the truth about China. Beneath the rapid economic growth, beneath the smiles of Chinese officials and the handshakes with international leaders, China's political and ideological system remains unchanged. China is still a dangerous place, not just for dissidents, but for anyone interested in pursuing the free exchange of ideas. 
When I was finally freed from detention, I was taken back to the Beijing airport to pick up a flight back to the States. As I was walking to the ticket counter, I saw him. It was the casually dressed man, the agent who had stopped us six months before. He was standing with the same agents. Presumably he was waiting for someone. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gao Zhan (Grant Delin); The Northwest terminal in Beijing, where Gao Zhan and her family were apprehended. (Katharina Hesse/Sipa Press. for The New York Times); Gao Zhan, Xue Donghua and their son, Andrew, arriving in the U. S. after Gao's release. (Hyungwon Kang/Getty/Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIRPORTS (76%); ESPIONAGE (72%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); AVIATION SECURITY (71%) POLITICAL PRISONERS; ESPIONAGE 

PERSON: GAO ZHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



406 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
Packages Put Europe on Sale

BYLINE:  By MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON; MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON is a freelance writer living in San Diego.

 BODY:
FIVE nights in Paris, including air fare, for $439? A round trip to Ireland, plus a week's rental car and lodging, for $449? These are the kinds of prices travelers will see on packages to Europe this winter.
 Air fares historically fall in the autumn, but the slowed economy and an unusually soft market for business travel made for discounted summer fares this year. Revenue by the standard industry measure, the cost of flying one seat one mile -- called the available seat mile -- fell 12.3 percent in July compared with the previous year, according to the Air Transport Association. And the European Travel Commission expects the peak season, May through September, to be flat this year, after eight record seasons in a row, according to Neil Martin, a spokesman. 
 Airlines are responding by cutting fares even more, and tour operators have jumped in, adding hotel stays and sometimes car rentals to create some notable bargain packages to Europe. Although least expensive during the off-off-season before and after the year-end holidays, prices promise to stay low into spring.
"People have less money to spend, and maybe now they don't want to take more than a week away from work," said Bram Majtlis, president of IMTC/Pegasus, an Atlanta-based travel company offering a range of European packages. "We created these packages as an answer for these people." 
Packages offer savings individuals can match only with luck, research skills and good timing in booking the components individually. Sometimes this does happen. My husband, Jinx, and a friend recently bought round-trip tickets from San Diego to Amsterdam for only $385 each, through a US Airways online promotion, for mid-September. If they were to find a budget hotel room at, say, $100 a night including breakfast and tax, they would spend $535 apiece for a three-night stay. That would beat most of the aggressively priced package deals.

Multiple Cities
By comparison, IMTC/Pegasus has a package to Amsterdam, Brussels or Paris for $599 that includes three nights' stay in a two- or three-star hotel and round-trip air fare from New York, Boston, Washington, Atlanta, Chicago or Dallas ($79 more from Los Angeles or San Francisco.) Available from Nov. 1 to March 31, it offers the option of flying into one city and out of another. For more information, call (800) 790-4682, or see www.imtc-travel.com.
A similar package for Barcelona, Madrid and Lisbon is $659, but the three nights are in first-class hotels. To compare this package with a trip booked independently, I found round-trip air from Boston to Madrid for travel beginning Nov. 1 at $350 a person at the US Airways Web site. Hotellocators.com listed three nights at the Hotel Arosa, the central hotel used by IMTC, at $420.91, so the total, booking independently, came out to $560.46 each, nearly $100 less than the package. The discounted air fare was available only from Boston, however, and required booking in a narrow time frame (by Sept. 5) 
An advantage of packages is that tour companies can offer advice about hotels and connections, and in some cases, provide assistance after arrival. Those that offer two-city deals, with arrival in one city and departure in another, can be impossible to match independently.
Obviously, the better the agent, the fewer potential problems. As an extra precaution, always pay by credit card, and consider buying trip-cancellation insurance. 
The packages that follow include economy air fare and tourist-class hotels with private bath for either five or six nights (prices are per person, double occupancy); upgrades in air and hotel arrangements are usually available. Many packages provide reduced fares for domestic flights to and from departure points, and most include daily breakfast (ask what kind), hotel service charges, city and sales taxes, but exclude airport taxes and departure fees (usually about $65).

London Remains Popular
 Despite concerns over hoof-and-mouth disease earlier this year, British Airways expects strong vacation bookings through the autumn and winter, according to John Lampl, a spokesman for the airline. British Airways and Virgin Atlantic both offer packages to London that include round-trip air fare from New York, airport transfers, six nights in hotels, daily breakfast, and a map and guidebook. 
The lowest-priced British Airways package, at $649, is for travel between Nov. 1 and Dec. 15, and Dec. 25 to Feb. 28, with a host of hotel upgrades and add-ons available, including theater tickets. The Virgin package is $579 from Nov. 1 to Jan. 8 and March 1 to 25, excluding holiday periods (the cost is $529 from Jan. 9 to Feb. 29) and includes a sightseeing bus tour, lunch at a pub and other vouchers. For British Airways Vacations, visit www.britishairways.com or call (877) 428-2228; for Virgin Atlantic Vacations, www.virgin -vacations.com or (888) 937-8474.
France Vacations, a Los Angeles company, is offering a five-night package with round-trip tickets from Newark on Continental Airlines, and five nights in Paris in a two-star hotel (with upgrades available), from $439. The offer is valid from Nov. 1 to March 31. More information: www.francevacations.net, or (800) 332-5332.
In Italy, Perillo Tours offers six nights in Rome with round-trip air, airport-to-city transfers, a first-class hotel and a travel advisor, from $999 to $1,199 from early November to early March; (800) 431-1515, or www.perillotours.com.
At the budget end, a $599 package from Tour Crafters to Naples, Rome, Florence or Venice includes round-trip air from New York, Newark, Boston, Miami or Chicago, plus five nights' accommodation at two- or three-star hotels; in Rome, the package also includes airport transfer on arrival. There are similarly priced packages to Madrid and the Costa del Sol in Spain, and to London. The offer is good Nov. 1 to Dec. 15 and from Jan. 3 to March 15. (The Venice package is unavailable Feb. 1 to 12, during Carnival.) Call (800) 482-5995 or visit www.tourcrafters.com.
Europe Express is offering a "two nation vacation" from New York to Brussels and back from London on Continental. Included is a ticket for Eurostar rail travel between the two cities, three nights at the Vendome hotel in Brussels and three nights at the Queens Park Hotel in London, plus breakfast daily, for $639 (hotel upgrades are available). You must book by Oct. 15 for travel between Nov. 1 and Dec. 14; (800) 927-3876, or www.europeexpress.com. 
Sceptre Tours is offering an off-season package to Ireland with air fare, rental car with unlimited mileage and six nights in bed-and-breakfasts beginning at $449. Flights are on Aer Lingus from New York, Boston or Baltimore to Shannon, Belfast or Dublin, and travelers receive vouchers for stays at any of 450 farmhouse B & B's (with hall bathrooms and full Irish breakfasts). The $449 offer is available from Dec. 1 to 15 and Jan. 1 to Feb. 8. An upgrade to private baths adds $36. For more information, call (800) 221-0924 or visit www.sceptretours.com.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wendy Wahman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); TOUR OPERATORS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: OLSON, MARTHA STEVENSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (86%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (51%) FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



407 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
Finding a Niche in Housing for Older Residents

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
THE new apartment at Stone Hill in Washingtonville, about 10 miles from Newburgh in Orange County, is everything Robert and Joy Ann Dixon dreamed about for their retirement: two light and airy bedrooms, a dramatic view from the living room window of trees and Woodcock Mountain, an all-new kitchen with wood cabinets and modern appliances, central air-conditioning and a private clubhouse for residents only.
 It may sound as though Mr. and Mrs. Dixon, both 61, have moved to a luxury complex for seniors, but that is hardly the case. Their monthly income is limited to Mr. Dixon's Social Security check and the disability insurance he receives since injuring his back several years ago. 
 In December, the couple moved out of the three-bedroom, two-bath home they could no longer afford in Florida, N.Y. -- leaving behind a $1,000 a month mortgage, $7,000 a year in property taxes and the upkeep that goes along with a single-family home. 
They are now paying $545 a month for their apartment at Stone Hill. It is one of a growing number of below-market-rate senior housing communities in the New York area built by Wilder Balter Partners of Elmsford, Westchester County.
The residential housing developer, a partnership between Robert H. Wilder Jr., 55, and William G. Balter, 38, builds everything from luxury to below-market-rate housing, with the company averaging close to $50 million a year in new housing construction. They currently have about 15 active projects -- from luxury single-family homes to multifamily and senior housing, which they own and manage in Westchester, Putnam, Dutchess, Orange, Suffolk and Fairfield Counties.
Over the decade they have been in business together, the partners have become known for both kinds of housing, with Mr. Balter handling most matters related to the luxury residences and Mr. Wilder overseeing financing and construction of the below-market-rate projects. As Mr. Wilder recently said, "We haven't put all our eggs in one residential basket."
Their luxury projects include Arrowcrest at Ardsley and Westwind at Stony Street in Yorktown.
Stone Hill in Washingtonville, their newest below-market-rate project, offers 104 apartments for those who are 55 and older and have an annual income of not more than 50 percent of Orange County's median income, which is $55,800 for a family of four. The income guidelines vary from project to project, depending upon the county in which the housing is located. 
Under the terms of the government financing used for Stone Hill and other similar projects, the rents may be increased only after a rise in the county's median income, which is calcuated annually. The projects -- which are managed by the builders or a nonprofit agency -- must remain within the government classification as affordable for a 30-year period.
Wilder Balter recently broke ground for Hughson Commons, 94 units of below-market-rate one- and two-bedroom rentals in Carmel in Putnam County. In Dutchess, it has built 82 units of below-market-rate rentals for seniors at Heritage Park in Hyde Park.
In Suffolk, the developers have completed 265 such units at Woodcrest Estates in Port Jefferson, and because of the success of the first units, they are planning a second phase. Also on Long Island, Wilder Balter recently broke ground for 208-unit project at Brookview Gardens in Babylon. 
Such complexes are helping to fill a growing demand for low-cost senior housing. In Westchester, for example -- where Wilder Balter is applying for public financing for a similar project in Mount Kisco -- there is a a larger percentage of older residents than in the rest of the country over all. One in every five Westchester residents was 60 or older in 2000; the country as a whole is not expected to have that rate of older people until the year 2050. Meanwhile, the first of 76 million baby boomers nationwide have turned 55.
The numbers have prodded policy makers, service providers and builders like Wilder Balter to develop policies, services and programs responsive to the needs of seniors. Toward that end, Wilder Balter locates its senior complexes near shopping areas, doctors, hospitals, parks or other recreation sites and nonprofit social service agencies that handle the needs of the aging. 
"My husband has a heart condition," Mrs. Dixon said, "so it was very important for us to be close to medical services. He's already had one heart attack, and I worry about him."
The Dixons own a car and also enjoy walking to nearby shopping and recreation. For the most part, they are independent and able to manage their lives without special services. Those services, however, are available if needed -- as they are for residents in all of the developers' senior complexes.
In Port Jefferson at Woodcrest, for example, the complex's project manager, Diane Foster, not only oversees maintenance of the property but also coordinates residents' activities with nonprofit agencies that provide assistance with housing and heating costs, home health aides, meals and elder day care, among other things.
Also enabling seniors to "age in place" -- in the words of planners, social workers and builders -- are amenities like elevators in buildings so residents do not have to move out when they can no longer negotiate flights of stairs. Units in all complexes have been built in such a way that grab bars and other aids for the handicapped can be easily added. Mr. Balter said the apartment complexes were designed to enable residents to continue living in them as long as possible -- often until they move on to assisted living housing.
Attesting to the need for below-market-rate housing for seniors are the long waiting lists at many of the complexes.
In Tarrytown, Rose Noonan, the executive director of the regional Housing Action Council, a nonprofit housing organization that has worked with Wilder Balter on several projects, said, "In some places we're seeing a two- and three-year waiting list."
At Woodcrest, there are 500 on the waiting list for apartments, Ms. Foster reported.
"Demand always exceeds supply," Mr. Wilder said.
While multifamily developments sometimes face opposition because of concern about added traffic and other planning issues , the complexes for older residents are often welcomed by the municipalities in which they are located, Mr. Wilder said. "There is a huge desire on the part of elected officials and their constituents, as well as the seniors themselves and the children of the seniors, to find ways to enable those over 55 to stay in the community and not be forced by economics to move elsewhere," he said.
For the most part seniors are considered good neighbors to have -- especially since they place fewer demands on a municipality than growing families, he added.
The developers finance their senior rental projects through a variety of sources. As an example, the $12 million Stone Hill complex raised $8.3 million from the Federal Housing Tax Credit program, which encourages private investment in below-market rate rental housing. The federal money was distributed by the state through its Division of Housing and Community Renewal. It also received a $1.2 million New York state Housing Trust Fund Loan, a low-interest loan issued by the state, and a $778,000 Federal Home Loan Bank loan, also at a low interest rate. In addition, Stone Hill received a $200,000 loan from Orange County. Most of the remaining cost was covered by a $1.7 million conventional mortgage loan.
The developer takes up to 15 percent of the total cost as his fee. "The real art," Mr. Wilder said, "is applying for and receiving funding in sufficient amounts to cover all of the project's costs, including the developer's fee."
Ms. Noonan at the Housing Action Council -- which often helps in guiding proposals for senior projects through the local approval process as well as sometimes taking a partnership stake with a developer -- suggested that prospective renters ask the following questions before signing a lease: Is the lease renewable? What social services are provided through the complex? What is the reputation of the developer, and what other projects has he completed?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert H. Wilder Jr., a developer of Stone Hill, a senior housing community in Washingtonville, N.Y. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (88%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HOUSING STARTS (75%); FAMILY (75%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); HVAC SYSTEMS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); PROPERTY TAX (68%) HOUSING 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) ELMSFORD (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



408 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 6; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3294 words

HEADLINE: THEATER: A Symbolic Nation Aspires to the International; 
A Symbolic Nation Aspires to the International

BYLINE:  By JACQUES GODBOUT; Jacques Godbout has published essays in Montreal and novels in Paris. He has made more than 30 films, including 4 features, all produced by the National Film Board of Canada. This article was translated from the French by Robert Gray, Kinograph.

DATELINE: MONTREAL 

 BODY:
WOULD the idea of holding a Quebec arts festival in New York have occurred to anyone 20 years ago? Probably not. We Quebecers were then still searching for an identity, unsure of our relationship to the Americas, embroiled in a literary and theatrical adventure in a French language that wavered among standardized forms, archaisms and original expressions invented to communicate our lives in our seasons. Our cinema aspired to documentary values.
 What gave Quebecois culture its strength 20 years ago resulted from a profound questioning of traditional values and the identification of the larger artistic community with a national project. Today, in all the arts, under the influence of globalization, Quebec artists have become autonomous individuals. The project for political sovereignty, it seems, has succeeded only on the personal level. Our national culture aspires to be international, and Quebec, which is still only a symbolic country, regularly showcases its arts abroad, as it is doing in the festival Quebec/ New York 2001, which was to begin on Thursday and runs until Oct. 7. 
 Quebec culture is influenced by intellectual life in Paris (we share the same language) and by the creative energy of New York (we are almost neighbors). This is felt in the rhythm of our television shows, in our comedians, in the ambition to make Montreal a world center for contemporary dance. 
If we issue from both Hollywood and St.-Germain-des-Pres, if our heads are often in Europe but our hearts in the Americas, this is not because of any split personality; it is simply our way of existing. Relations between Quebecers and Americans (we prefer to call them "United-Statesians," since we, too, inhabit the Americas) are friendly, ancient and deep. In our national history, for example, our French ancestors were the first to cross the New World from east to west, to explore the Mississippi Delta and to settle Detroit and St. Louis. So you will understand our concern about the image Quebec projects in the world, and especially in the United States.
The situation is delicate. Not since the Major League Baseball Players Association strike of 1994 have the Montreal Expos led the National League standings; the Montreal Canadiens are a pale shadow of the kings of the ice that they once were. Worse still: Mordecai Richler, taking advantage of his fame as a novelist, began a malicious campaign in The New Yorker a decade ago, which he followed up with a book, "Oh Canada! Oh Quebec!," in which he denounced, more or less honestly, the project for a sovereign and French Quebec. How far did his mudslinging carry?
Richler was, though he would disdain the term, Quebec's greatest writer. He died too soon, for his wife, his children, his friends and, of course, his readers; but also too soon to celebrate this "Quebec Fall," which follows the "Quebec Spring" presented in France two years ago. This man who never tired of denouncing the desire of Quebecers to exist in French could nonetheless have kicked off the New York festivities with a blast and could perhaps even have finally apologized, with his timid half-smile, for having described his French-speaking compatriots as raving fanatics.
Quebec numbers six million Francophones (French speakers) and one million Anglophones. Richler, an Anglophone who left Montreal for London in 1954, at 23, not to return until 1972, in his 40's, never really understood what had happened to his country during his absence.
Richler's Quebec dated back to his childhood, and to mine. It was a rural-minded province, dominated by soutane-clad bigots and peopled by workers exploited by Anglo-American big business. It was led by the autocratic head of a nationalist party, and its citizens were instructed to devote their energies to preparing for the next world rather than trying to improve their lot in this one.
Yet while Richler was in England, laying the foundations of his career as a writer, our country, with its siege mentality, was undergoing a cultural mutation of unimaginable breadth. Within a decade or so after he left, a silent people began to speak, its artists and businessmen to embark on new projects, and visitors to discover, on the occasion of Expo '67, a Quebec in a state of social and political ferment, in stride with other cultural movements around the globe.
This was the Quiet Revolution, taking place without bloody confrontations or massive demonstrations in the streets. Long in the making, the transformation was no doubt a belated response to World War II. The war had brought new wealth to Canada, stimulated industry and opened up offices and factories to women; the soldiers who returned from the European front were no longer the trembling youths who had left the banks of the St. Lawrence River in 1940.
But the Roman Catholic Church, still maintaining its stranglehold on Quebec society, controlled social life from birth to death, ran schools and hospitals, censored the press and kept a tight lid on the intellectual and artistic pot. One example from many: in 1959, cinephiles who wanted to see the complete version of one of the films of the French New Wave had to drive from Montreal to New York, eight hours on the road, to outwit the censors.
Like Richler and dozens of other young people of my generation, I left a conservative Quebec in 1954 to study in Europe, where we discovered a multiplicity of cultures, a profusion of languages and intellectual freedom. Born at the right time, we hadn't suffered from the war -- just the opposite -- and we were able to study in an age riveted by ideologies, secular and Marxist, stimulated by intellectual debate and ready to overturn the established order.
I returned home in 1960, and by then our generation no longer recognized itself in a dominating English Canada and a consenting Quebec. Our poets were the first to come together, inventing a liberated Quebec with literature. This poetry proved a seismograph, and its quality was acknowledged immediately in France. Modern and demanding texts -- by Anne Hebert, Gaston Miron and a hundred other poets -- inaugurated a new era.
Our generation was scarcely 30; more than half of Quebec was in its 20's. And so we entered the modern age pushed from behind by impatient youths but wielding an extraordinary tool of communication, television. The church never saw its cathodic rival coming.
Unlike the United States, where radio and television belonged to the private sector from the start, Canada (less populous than the state of California alone) had always favored a mixed economy, and television was viewed at first as a public service. In the same way, Canadian cinema was forged at the National Film Board, a state-run agency whose only rivals were to be found in Communist countries like Poland and Czechoslovakia. The federal government thus entrusted French-language television to young people from the theater or fresh out of universities.
Growing up is a strange experience; it is even stranger to watch oneself grow up before the cameras of Radio Canada. The cultural construction set in motion by the poets gave rise to poet-songwriters like Felix Leclerc, Gilles Vigneault, Claude Leveillee and Jean-Pierre Ferland, who appeared on variety shows and won over a young generation eager to hear its life reflected in ballads and pop tunes. Robert Charlebois taught the French that rock 'n' roll could be sung in their language, our language.
The more the political and religious elites tried to smother these early manifestations of freedom, the more French-Canadian society responded with pyrotechnical displays, which made the TV news. This was the time of the Algerian war and of African independence movements, and in Paris, Jean-Paul Sartre, Frantz Fanon and Albert Memmi were developing theories that reverberated in our intellectual magazines.
The program of the Quiet Revolution, certainly not as straightforward at the time as it appears to us today, had as its primary ambition the decolonization of Quebec on three fronts. Three capitals imposed their laws on us: Paris, whose cultural model was primordial; Rome, whose clerical influence extended as far as our universities; and Ottawashington, capital of the Anglo-American establishment in business and industry.
Poets, novelists and playwrights insolently tossed off the cultural yoke of France. The abundance and quality of Quebecois works, and the unshakable support of public radio and of the Canada Council, the federal arts financing agency, gave birth to an original literary life that has asserted itself ever since. Quebec's French-language writing, from Hubert Aquin to Gaetan Soucy, boasts among its ranks numerous authors of the highest order.
The church, in turn, was forced to bow to the sexual revolution of the 60's, the ministry of education and the democratization of teaching having quickly secularized the members of religious orders. Secular discourse replaced Sunday sermons, church pews emptied, and Rome's dictates began to look dated. Pope John XXIII summoned a council to modernize the rites. In Quebec it was already too late.
The process of political decolonization was arduous and, it can be said, is still going on, since even today the Parti Quebecois includes nationalist sovereignty on its plank. For more than 40 years, Quebec politicians have searched for the magic formula to allow them to counterbalance federal powers.
It is easy to understand that Richler, returning from London in 1972, no longer recognized the Quebec of Duddy Kravitz. The lower ranks and NCO's (that is, the French-Canadians) now gave the orders; socialist and sovereignist speeches packed political meeting halls; in Quebec the federalist Liberal Party had floated aimlessly after the kidnapping and murder of one of its ministers.
With ever greater insistence, Francophone society demanded government measures to affirm and protect the French language, its status having been weakened by the arrival of immigrants, who invariably sent their children to school in English, and by French Canadians themselves, who seemed on the verge of assimilating, as their grandparents had done 50 years earlier in New England.
Thus, in 1976, the new Quebec government, led by the journalist Rene Levesque, passed a language law that provoked the ire of the author of "Joshua Then and Now." Judging this act "fascist," Richler began to denounce what he deemed "the language police," who were responsible for ensuring that all public signs were in French. The novelist, like many other Anglophone Quebecers, embarked on a crusade.
In Quebec, the linguistic question is fundamental. We like to believe that Francophones have the right to a territory of their own in the Americas. In Quebec, the English-language community has access to public educational, legal and health services in its own language. French is not a disease, and it threatens no one. "We don't need to speak French," wrote the author Andre Belleau, "we need French to speak."
The real problem is again one of demographics. We have built, patiently, from generation to generation, across various movements of solidarity and resistance, a distinct society. If at times we appeared to be more community-oriented than individualistic, it was because we had to organize the structures and establishments that would one day allow the personal fulfillment of our citizens.
Numbers, as we know, are fundamental. Richler could count on his readers in the United States, England and Canada. We could rely only on a nation of six million inhabitants, hence the necessity of protecting our rear before setting out to conquer the universe. But the time for confidence is upon us.
Some authors, like the novelist Marie Laberge, reach hundreds of thousands of readers in Quebec alone, and others, like Michel Tremblay, have, after enormous local success, seen their plays translated and staged around the world. Without government support the filmmakers Denys Arcand ("The Decline of the American Empire"), Francois Girard ("The Red Violin") and Denis Villeneuve ("Maelstrom") would not have been able to practice their art.
It is this highly original approach that allowed the Cirque du Soleil to set up its tents and provided support for the brilliant work of the actor, author and film and stage director Robert Lepage, who lives in Quebec City and has works in progress in every major artistic capital. His "Zulu Time" opens on Friday at the Roseland Ballroom in mid-Manhattan.
In the 1950's, painters of the automatist movement, Jean-Paul Riopelle being the most famous, had no choice but to go into exile to continue their careers. Since then, painters, conceptual artists and sculptors like Serge Lemoyne and Armand Vaillancourt have earned places at the pinnacle of their professions and in the collections of savvy buyers.
When the rock operas of Luc Plamondon and his outstanding casts occupy the largest stages of Paris, we must be grateful to the musical and vocal traditions bequeathed to us by the church. Choirs led to bel canto; convent piano lessons educated a demanding audience that throngs to concerts by piano virtuosos like Marc-Andre Hamelin or Louis Lortie, prestigious guests of the Montreal Symphony Orchestra and its Swiss conductor Charles Dutoit.
Today Las Vegas, Toronto and New York welcome works by Quebec creators, many of whom, like the stage director and playwright Washdi Mouawad and the novelists Dany Laferriere and Sergio Kokis, are not native-born. Quebec has become a proving ground for Francophones from the Caribbean and the Americas.
Quebec (whose official motto is "I Remember"), remains one of Canada's 10 provinces and may continue to do so for a long time to come, from one referendum to the next. No matter. If boredom grows out of uniformity, our French presence on this continent is a factor for diversity.
Today Montreal is a cosmopolitan city with 2.5 million inhabitants. In Rimouski, Chicoutimi, Quebec City and Sherbrooke, the majority of people are of French origin, and they still bear the names passed down from Louis XIV's soldiers: La tulippe, Laforce, Latendresse, La rose. Or even Johnson, Ryan and MacDonald, for Scottish and Irish troops married Quebecois women after the English victory of 1760. And the blood of many Quebecers has long been mixed with that of Native Americans, which has not kept those Native Americans from demanding in turn the right to their own territory.
In Quebec, as everywhere else, high culture rubs elbows with street culture. The great tragic novelist Marie-Claire Blais, who has been publishing for more than 40 years, represents us just as much as the pop star Celine Dion, singing in Tokyo or Berlin. The author of "Barney's Version" knew how to question our identity, which is essential to the well-being of a country where the Catholic temptation of universal consensus still lurks. Richler is no longer with us. Let us hope that this "Quebec Fall" will allow us to bury, as we did his ashes in Montreal last summer, the prejudices that he kept alive.

From Quebec, a Fete Worthy of a Roi

QUEBEC/ NEW YORK 2001
 This festival of dance, theater, music, visual arts and film by 30 arts organizations from Quebec, which was to begin on Sept. 13, will continue through Oct. 7 at sites across New York. Below are some selected events. A series of free concerts and exhibitions had been scheduled for the World Financial Center in downtown Manhattan; these and others may been canceled or postponed in the aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Center. Readers are advised to call (212) 843-0969 for information or consult the festival's Web site (www.quebecnewyork.com).

DANCE
THE PAR B. L. EUX -- The company presents "Undone Delirium," Benoit Lachambre's solo piece that focuses on the deconstruction of the dancer's body. Kitchen, 512 W. 19th St., Thur., 8; Fri.-Sat., 7. $18. (212-255-5793) www.thekitchen.org

COMPAGNIE MARIE CHOUINARD -- The choreographer's "Cri du Monde," with 11 dancers and "Etude #1," a solo dance, make up the program. Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Ave. Sept. 25-29, 8; Sept. 30, 2. $35; $21 for members; $12 for students and those over 65. (212-242-0800) www.joyce.org

COLEMAN AND LEMIEUX -- Laurence Lemieux's evening-long piece "Novembre," with music by Christopher Butterfield. Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 E. 10th St. Sept. 28-30, 7:30. $10. (212-647-8194) www.danspaceproject.org

SYSTEME D/DOMINIQUE PORTE -- Four bodies move to music that is triggered by their dancing in Dominique Porte's "Probable Delay 5 mn." Danspace Project. Sept. 28-30, 9:30. $12.

O VERTIGO -- The company's "Luna," choreographed by Ginette Laurin, explores the landscape of the body in intimate detail. Joyce Theater. Oct. 4-6, 8; Oct. 6-7, 2. $32; $19 for members; $12 for students and those over 65.

COMPAGNIE FLAK -- The company presents "Haman/Navas Project," a collaboration between the Venezeuelan-born, Montreal-based choreographer and performer Jose Navas and the American cellist Walter Haman. Danspace Project. Oct. 4-7, 8:30. $12.

EXHIBITIONS
"MONTREAL BRAINWARE" -- A project developed by the Societe des Arts Technologiques of new media installations including Luc Courchesne's "Landscape One," Nicolas Reeves's "Computer Architectones," Joseph Lefevre and Martine Koutnouyan's "Shaman's Space," and Patrick Beland's "Urban Plastic Paintings." Gale Gates Et Al., 37 Main Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn. Through Oct. 7. Free. (718-522-4596) www.galegates.org

"CONTEMPORARY QUEBEC GLASS" -- On view are glass works by artists including Sylvie Belanger, Donald Robertson, Maude Bussieres, Ronald Labelle and Michele Lapointe. Corning Gallery at Steuben, 667 Madison Ave. Through Oct. 7. Free. (646-497-3744)

"O NARCISSE, MA SOEUR" -- An installation by Lorraine Fontaine exploring narcissism. Paramount Hotel, 235 W. 46th St. Through Oct. 7. Free. (212-764-5500)

FILM

INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF FILMS ON ART -- A selection of films including Philippe Baylaucq's "Art of Time (Couleurs du Sang)" and Marc-Henri Wajnberg's "Oscar Niemeyer: An Architect Committed to His Century." Donnell Media Center, New York Public Library, 20 W. 53rd St. Oct. 4, 2:30. Free. (212-621-0636)

MUSIC
MUSIQUE ACTUELLE IN NEW YORK no quotes b/c it is the name of a mini-festival, yes? ab-- A four-day, 12-concert or series with more than 20 musicians from Quebec playing techno, jazz, rock and acoustic improvisation. Tonic, 107 Norfolk St. Wed.-Sat., 8, 9:30 and 11:30. $12. (212-358-7503) www.tonicnyc.com

LES VIOLONS DU ROY -- Bernard Labadie leads the orchestra and the singers of La Chapelle de Quebec in a program that includes Mozart's Requiem and Haydn's "Nelson" Mass. Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center. Sat., 8. $40. (212-875-5050) www.lincolncenter.org

THEATER

"ZULU TIME" -- The centerpiece of the festival is a music-theater spectacle set in the transient world of airports where people from all over the world cross paths, conceived by Robert Lepage with music by Peter Gabriel. Roseland Ballroom, 239 W. 52nd St. Starts Fri., through Oct. 9: Tue.-Sun., 8, Sat., 2. $48; $40 for students. (212-307-7171) www.ticketmaster.com

"THE DAUGHTERS OF SELENE" -- Theatre Momentum presents a dance-theater piece, created and directed by Nathalie Claude, about the history of women, which is part of the company's "Twelve Masses for the Millennium" project. Washington Square United Methodist Church, 135 W. Fourth St. Sept. 28-29, 8. $15. (212-924-0077)

"EN ANGLAIS COMME EN FRANCAIS, IT'S EASY TO CRITICIZE" -- PME de l'Art presents this play, a collaboration between the Montreal-based Sylvie Lachance and the Toronto-based Jacob Wren about the translation -- and mistranslation -- between French and English in the two cities. P.S. 122, 150 First Ave. Sept. 26-30, 8:30. $18. (212-477-5829) www.ps122.org

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mordecai Richler in 1995: a grudging favorite son of Quebec (pg. 1); Celine Dion plays Montreal in 1999: where high culture rubs up against street culture (pg. 6) (Associated Press); The director Francois Girard, left, with Samuel L. Jackson, filming "The Red Violin." (pg. 7) (Bob Marshak/Lions Gate Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); DANCE (73%); BASEBALL (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); ICE HOCKEY (65%); THEATER (57%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%) CULTURE 

PERSON: CELINE DION (57%) GODBOUT, JACQUES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) QUEBEC, CANADA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (77%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (73%) QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



409 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 9-16-01: Salient Facts: Alternative Energy; 
The Dregs

BYLINE:  By Robb Mandelbaum 

 BODY:
 The crisis in California's grid seems to have abated for now, but in its wake, it has left renewed interest in alternative energy technologies. By 2006, the state hopes that 17 percent of its power will come from renewable energy, and it is now allocating $135 million a year to meet that goal. But California has its work cut out: last year, only 12 percent of its energy came from alternative sources. Here's what is in the pipeline.

FOOD IS FUEL
Recently, Los Angeles World Airports, which manages LAX, began hauling small amounts of food waste from an airline catering company to a treatment plant nearby. After the food is ground (pictured above) and "digested" in a tank, the methane that results powers a steam turbine that generates electricity. The airport eventually hopes to recycle all 8,000 tons of leftover food produced each year by airline caterers. The plant already operates with electricity derived from sewage it processes, a fuel that costs about 2 cents per kilowatt-hour; Jerry Hernandez, a sanitary engineer for the city of Los Angeles, says that food may even be a cheaper fuel. Can mystery meat and sewage compete with natural gas and coal? Depends on how you look at it. Electricity from natural gas and coal might come cheaper, but some economists say that renewable energies deserve a handicap that takes into account their environmental benefits, like clearing the atmosphere of potent greenhouse gases like methane.

TREASURE FROM TRASH
Landfill gas is too weak to power most generators, but new microturbines, made by a company named Capstone, can burn gas that has a third of the fuel of natural gas. In August, the L.A. Department of Water and Power installed 50 microturbines at the Lopez Canyon landfill. (They now power 1,500 homes.) Next, Edan Prabhu, founder of a company called FlexEnergy, plans to develop seven prototype turbines, which could run on even weaker gas: "If it comes out of a bakery or a printing plant, I'd be able to suck that into our machine." Robb Mandelbaum

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jay Berkowitz/Lawa) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CATERING SERVICES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); AIRLINES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); METHANE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); AIRPORTS (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%) ENERGY AND POWER; LANDFILL; FOOD; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CATERING; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

PERSON: MANDELBAUM, ROBB 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



410 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Your Home; 
Weighing No-Cost Refinancings

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
FOR most people who have a mortgage on their home, the decision to refinance is typically based on a rather straightforward calculation: are the savings that will be realized by refinancing to a lower interest rate enough to justify the expenses of refinancing?
 In recent months, however, some lenders have been advertising "no-cost refinances" -- in which the lender picks up the expenses that would normally be paid by the borrower and the borrower gets the benefit of a brand new mortgage with a lower interest rate. 
 Does that mean, then, that it might be worthwhile for a borrower to refinance an existing mortgage no matter how small the reduction in interest rate might be?
Well, mortgage experts say, perhaps. Then again, perhaps not. 
"I think that a no-cost refinance can make a lot of sense for a lot of people," said Tim Malburg, president of the Capstone Mortgage Company, a mortgage broker in Wilton, Conn. 
Mr. Malburg explained that with a typical no-cost refinance, the lender charges the borrower zero points -- one point is equal to 1 percent of the amount being borrowed -- and also picks up the tab for things like appraisal fees, credit report costs, application fees, bank charges, title insurance fees and even the fee frequently charged to the borrower by the lender's lawyer.
"When I tell a client he is getting a no-points, no-closing-cost refinance, I'm talking about a mortgage that requires no out-of-pocket payments from the borrower," Mr. Malburg said, explaining that, as with any mortgage, the borrower generally does have to come up with the money required to finance escrow accounts for homeowners insurance and real estate taxes. 
In other words, Mr. Malburg said, since with a no-cost refinance the lender picks up all of the costs associated with obtaining the mortgage, it is possible -- theoretically, at least -- for a borrower to benefit from an interest rate drop of as little as one-eighth of 1 percent. Why, then, wouldn't everyone take advantage of a no-cost refinance whenever a rate drop made a refinance appropriate?
"Because there's no such thing as a completely free lunch," Mr. Malburg said.
He explained that with a typical no-cost refinance, if the lender pays the closing costs, the borrower agrees to pay a slightly higher interest rate than he or she might otherwise pay. 
For example, Mr. Malburg said, if the very best interest rate the lender can offer a borrower who is willing to pay his or her own refinancing costs is, say, 6.75 percent, the lender may charge that same borrower an interest rate of 7 percent for a no-cost refinance. So, he said, to determine whether it is wise to take out a no-cost refinance, the borrower must first determine whether a refinance makes sense in the first place, and then determine whether it makes more sense to pay one's own closing costs -- and thereby obtain a lower interest rate. 
For example, Mr. Malburg said, if a borrower's existing $200,000 mortgage was at 7.5 percent, and the interest rate for a traditional refinance was 6.75 percent, the borrower would save about $1,212 a year. (The payment on a 30-year $200,000 mortgage at 7.5 percent is $1,399 a month; the payment on the same loan at 6.75 percent is $1,298 a month, a savings of $101 a month.
While the principal balance of the mortgage is also being slightly reduced with each payment, that is not being taken into consideration for purposes of this example.) This means that it would take about 20 months for the borrower to "break even" after paying $2,000 in refinancing costs. 
In other words, the borrower would start saving the $101 a month only after he or she had spent 20 months recouping the closing costs. Nevertheless, the borrower would continue to save $101 a month for as long thereafter as he or she kept the loan.
The calculations work differently, however, for a no-cost refinance.
If that same borrower chose to take out a no-cost refinance, Mr. Malburg explained, he would not have to pay the $2,000 in closing costs, but he would have to pay 7 percent -- one quarter of a point more -- in interest. So instead of paying $1,298 a month, the borrower would instead be required to make a payment of $1,331 a month. And while that is still less than the $1,399 the borrower had been paying on the 7.5 percent mortgage, it is $396 a year more than he or she would have paid on the 6.75 percent loan. 
"What all this basically means is that after five years, the $2,000 savings in closing costs is eaten up by the additional interest being paid," Mr. Malburg said. 
As a result, he said, no-closing-cost refinances make more sense for borrowers who plan on selling their home -- or refinancing again -- within a relatively short period of time and are typically less appropriate for those who plan on keeping their house, and their mortgage, for the long haul.
But those who want to sell their home or refinance within a short time need to be careful they don't find themselves facing what is known as a "prepayment penalty."
Kenneth Polin, president of Banner Mortgage Group, a mortgage broker in Scarsdale, said a prepayment penalty is a provision in a mortgage that requires the borrower to pay the lender a certain amount of money if the borrower pays off the loan "prematurely" within a certain period of time. 
"There are soft prepayment penalties and hard prepayment penalties," Mr. Polin said, explaining that with a soft prepayment penalty, the penalty is imposed if the borrower pays off the loan by refinancing, but not if the borrower pays off the loan because the property has been sold. 
"The more common are the hard penalties," he said, explaining that with such a prepayment penalty, the penalty is imposed if the loan is paid off within a specific period of time, regardless of the reason. 
In most cases, Mr. Polin said, the prepayment penalty can be charged if the loan is paid off within 12 to 36 months -- depending on the specific terms of the mortgage -- and can amount to as much as 3 percent of the outstanding balance of the mortgage.
In fact, he said, anyone who is contemplating refinancing should check with both the current mortgage lender and the new lender to determine whether a prepayment penalty will be imposed if the mortgage is paid off early. And in every case, Mr. Polin said, borrowers should crunch the numbers to make sure that a refinance makes sense.
"In my opinion, the best strategy is to get the best rate you can possibly get," he said. "And that usually isn't possible with no-cost loans."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TITLE INSURANCE (70%) HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



411 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: The Early Education of a Wine Taster 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

 BODY:
SINCE boyhood, the memory of fiveoclocksupper -- thought of as one word, like Presidentroosevelt -- has regulated my instincts. Even though dinner now ranges from 7 to 9 p.m., hunger automatically glances at my watch at 5.
 In Newark's poor Central Ward in the 1940's, we didn't eat dinner on weekdays. We ate supper, usually at 5 o'clock, 5:30 at the latest, on weekdays. The same recipe, when served on Saturday at 6 or Sunday at 4, when company came, was called dinner. 
 In a federal housing project, where I was raised for six years, if the dishes weren't washed and put away by 7 o'clock, something was suspiciously wrong. One couple who ate late and owned rooms full of books were thought to be Communists. 
Fiveoclocksupper implied an All-American evening ritual: fathers, workingmen all (mine was a shoe salesman), would drag home, wash up, eat at 5, put on slippers, read the sports and war news in The Newark Evening News, listen to the ball game and go to sleep.
From Monday to Friday, wine was as beyond my ken as the gossip columnists' beloved madcap heiresses who swigged cocktails in the Stork Club. Newark was famously a brewery town, and Dad favored Krueger's. Although ads implied that if the home front drank enough Coke the Nazis would lose, the rest of the family thrived on grape soda, sarsaparilla, birch beer and root beer. 
If supper, on oilcloth, was routine, dinner was ceremonial. A table was opened in the parlor and given an embroidered cloth. Dishes materialized from high kitchen shelves. Silverware emerged from a felt-lined box. Stemmed goblets appeared, to be filled with an all-purpose (fish, chicken, meat) kosher wine, Mogen David, a sweet Concord red, especially on holidays.
It was this wine and the tart Concord grape, which tastes like its wine (not all grapes do), that started my informal wine education. A Concord arbor behind my paternal grandparents' house in Long Branch, N.J., an old seaside resort, smelled swooningly delicious in high September.
Although the arbor dated to Prohibition, which put Grandpa's liquor store out of business, he, unlike Italian neighbors, didn't make wine: Grandma disapproved of any pleasure. Like clockwork, we all sat down to supper at 5 o'clock. Afterward, as they schmoozed on front-porch rockers, with Grandpa's connivance I stole grapes from fat clusters that soon became jelly kept cool in a dirt basement. Sometimes the juice started fermenting on the vine.
In Newark, on holidays and sometimes on the Sabbath we drank semidry raisin wine that my maternal grandmother, who lived with us, made in autumn. The fermentation aroma filled the house and made a lasting impression, as did the wine's piquancy and golden color. 
The only other really impressive wine I ever encountered in Newark was sweet plum stuff in an upstairs Chinese restaurant whose full dinners ran from 75 cents to $1.25, and, once, something French in a famous, ritzy restaurant beyond our means called the Tavern, where at lunch we celebrated my graduation from grammar school. 
My formal wine education began when the word aperitif, so rich in connotations of the Good Life, penetrated my awareness as a Rutgers freshman. 
The idea that wine tasted dry (who ever heard of a thing?) and could, after 5 p.m., actually stimulate rather than retard an appetite was a bombshell. My first glass of dry sherry, a nutty fino, at a fraternity brother's Park Avenue South apartment in Manhattan, was a divine revelation; thereafter, a glass of sweet Gallo muscatel at the Corner Tavern, a hangout in New Brunswick, held no interest.
The occasional students from France were so nonchalant about a glass of Pommard that their urbanity seemed unfathomable. (National habits never die: A student from the London School of Economics was overbearing about claret.) Aside from learning how to affect world weariness while holding a Pall Mall at a 45-degree angle, for me an enduring freshman lesson was that a swell red like Pommard needn't always be a big deal. 
College life brought countless thirsts and sea changes. Although I ascended to Chianti by graduation, beer had triumphed. Wine went underground until, 18 years later, I rediscovered it, in German rieslings. Since then, almost daily a wish for a dry kabinett or dry spatlese has arisen, invariably signaling the arrival of, no surprise, 5 o'clock.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Beata Szpura) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (87%); GRANDPARENTS (86%); FAMILY (75%); POULTRY (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); BREWERIES (70%); BEER & ALE (70%); RESORTS (69%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); WRITERS (68%); WINE (66%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



412 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Dinner Is Served. But Just Who Cooked? 

BYLINE:  By PAULA GANZI LICATA 

 BODY:
WHAT'S handier in kitchens across Long Island: the grocery list or the takeout menus? At dinnertime, the words Greek, Chinese and Italian are understood to mean cuisines, not languages. Although we may be eating at the dining room table, in the kitchen pots and pans are nowhere to be seen and the aroma of garlic is coming from the car, not the oven. 
 Years ago home-cooked dinners were the norm Monday through Friday, while dining out was reserved for weekends. Nowadays, the weekday grind ends with eating out and ordering in. Cooking dinner from scratch has become a weekend recreation. 
 Despite the popularity of the Food Network, the cornucopia of cooking shows or the proliferation of Calphalon, Cusinart and KitchenAid, cooking has become a hobby, perhaps even a passion, but often it's not part of the nightly routine. 
"The funny thing is we like cooking," said Christopher Barry of Glen Cove. "We just don't have the time."
Mr. Barry is a teacher at Glen Cove High School; his wife, Diane Dobler, is the director of design services at Rainbow Media Holdings Inc. in Bethpage. They have a 2 1/2-year-old daughter, Samantha. The family dines out and orders in during much of the workweek.
Carl Bachmann, the owner of the 10 Ruby Tuesday restaurants on Long Island, believes that the prevalence of two-income families is part of the reason for the increase in eating out. "It's a lot of hard work to cook and clean after getting home from work," he said.
This all comes as no surprise to Tim Zagat, a co-chairman of the Zagat Surveys, a popular series of dining guides that includes a book devoted to Long Island.
"In the New York metropolitan area, 60 percent of all meals are eaten out in restaurants or prepared outside the home or office, and those statistics are the same for Long Island," he said.
Meryl Souci of Massapequa, who has four daughters, said: "We eat out so often I could probably pay my mortgage with what we spend. Friday night is always pizza night in Massapequa, better known as MassaPizza. It's amazing how many pizzerias there are -- two on any given block. You have to call way ahead on a Friday night from the train, and still your pick-up number can be 999."
Mrs. Souci, a sales manager at a children's clothing manufacturer in Manhattan, said she cooks only two nights out of seven. "Sunday I make a full balanced meal, with enough for seconds," she said. "And Thursday it's breakfast for dinner. Since everyone is dodging out the door in the mornings, this gives us a chance to eat breakfast together."
The menu? Pancakes, omelets or waffles. 
It's actually cost-efficient to eat out. Or so the restaurant industry would have you believe. So the industry has responded to the dinner dilemma with what are known as BATH restaurants, an acronym that stands for "better alternative to home."
"These are the little places that never get written about, the pasta places, neighborhood joints, ethnic places," Mr. Zagat said. They have three characteristics: prices are low, the setting is casual and the food is hearty.
"They're so inexpensive," Mr. Zagat said, "that they are more efficient than you would be if you did the shopping and cooking."
"The fact is that even though we love the romantic nostalgia that our mothers were shopping, cooking and cleaning -- that was romantic to us, but not necessarily to them," he said. "Today the majority of women, even women with young children, are working. There's nobody at home who has the time to do that shopping, cooking and cleaning. Both parents are lucky to get home by 7, and at that point there's very little time and energy for those things."
But many parents don't feel absolved by this explanation.
"Tonight I have to go home and throw out all the leftover takeout food because my mother is coming tomorrow," said Ms. Dobler, the design director.
Joseph Varsalona is a producer at Cablevision and the vice chairman of the Bellport Film Society. During a summer visit at Mr. Varsalona's home in East Patchogue, his grandmother expressed surprised at how often her grandson didn't come home for dinner.
"One night I called to tell her that I was eating out with Michael, a longtime family friend," Mr. Varsalona said. "Coincidentally, Michael's grandmother happened to be visiting with Nana." Mr. Varsalona overheard his grandmother say to her visitor, "Mr. Trump and Mr. Rockefeller will be dining out this evening."
Whatever relatives' reaction to dinners out may be, many Long Islanders say they refuse to play the blame game.
"I don't feel guilty about not cooking more," said Janet Fisher of Oceanside, because her son, Andrew, seems to prefer pizza and sushi. "Andrew doesn't seem to care," his mother said. 
What may help assuage parents' guilt is the fact that families aren't the only demographic group throwing in the dishtowel at dinnertime. 
"Being single, I never feel like cooking when I get home from work," said Joan Marasco, a widow who lives in Baldwin. Mrs. Marasco, an assistant vice president at Citibank in Manhattan, chooses from a number of local restaurants: Raay-Nor's Cabin, Kam's Kitchen and the I'm in a Hurry Pizzeria.
Laurie Bloom, the marketing director at Rivkin Radler, the largest law firm on Long Island, doesn't feel guilty, either.
"When you work the long hours we do, the goal is simply to eat before 10," she said. 
Ms. Bloom and Leonard Thon, a television producer for Hofstra University, own a historic Tudor in Brightwaters with a nice kitchen. But since they both work in Uniondale, a 30-minute commute, they eat out, often at Caffe Spasso in Carle Place.
"I like the friendly bistro atmosphere, and the food is terrific," Ms. Bloom said.
Eating out also satisfies social yearnings. "I'd rather be dining at a table with friends than alone at my kitchen counter," Mr. Varsalona said. "Sometimes you can't devote a weekend to friends, but planned dinners after work keep you in the loop."
The social scene is evident at all levels.
"Samantha started playing with another girl while at Ruby Tuesday," Ms. Dobler said. "I said to the other mother, 'Do you want to meet here next Wednesday?' "
Will people continue to eat out five nights a week if the economy continues to stall? "I would suspect a down economy puts pressure on people to work longer hours or second jobs, so they have even less time to shop and cook," Mr. Zagat said.
Mr. Bachmann, the Ruby Tuesday owner, contends that his restaurants are something of a bargain.
"When the economy dips, people might not spend $5 at Starbucks, but they can get a lot of value at Ruby Tuesday," he said. "On Long Island, the average cost for an adult dinner is $12, $5 for kids."
And there seems to be a curious contradiction at work. "People love to brag, 'I don't cook,' " said Carol Gross of East Northport, 'yet we all have these $80,000 kitchens with Sub-Zero freezers."
Mrs. Gross, a co-director of Fly Without Fear, a desensitization program for people who are afraid of flying, likens the situation to another fantasy: "People love to look at travelogues," she said, "but they don't go to Africa."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Diane Dobler, above, with her husband, Christopher Barry, and daughter, Samantha, at Ruby Tuesday in Glen Cove; JosephVarsalona, left at center, with Laurie Bloom and Leonard Thon at Caffe Spasso in Carle Place. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); CHILDREN (76%); DINING OUT TRENDS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); FAMILY (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (63%); APPAREL MFG (50%); CHILDREN'S APPAREL MFG (50%) COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; SPECIAL SECTIONS 

COMPANY: AMC NETWORKS INC (55%); RUBY TUESDAY INC (54%)

TICKER: AMCX (NASDAQ) (55%); RT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

PERSON: LICATA, PAULA GANZI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



413 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Finally, a Doctor Is in the House 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE DIGRAZIA 

 BODY:
RESIDENTS of Beacon Falls, a rural town of about 5,300 on the banks of the Naugatuck River, say they are accustomed to always having to go somewhere else. A Big Mac attack or a Dunkin Donuts Coolatta craving means driving to next-door Naugatuck or Seymour. Shopping at Wal-Mart or renting a video from Blockbuster also requires mini-excursions to other communities.
"We always went to high school out of town and to the movies," said Beverly Krenesky, a Beacon Falls native and president of its Historical Society. "I guess we just got so used to going out of town for everything."
 That has included going to the doctor. The town has not had a full-time doctor for about 50 years. Even the town historian can't remember when the full-time doctor left, and it was so long ago that he can't remember who it was. He said a couple of doctors once had part-time offices, but they were closed in the 1960's. 
 "The only doctor we've had here in town all the time was up on South Circle," said Mike Krenesky, the town historian and Beverly's husband. "Patients came to see him in that house. This was right after World War II and I can remember because I hurt my finger playing ball and went to see him. But I can't remember his name."
While the town's quaintness draws people who like living in a rustic setting, it's not a draw for doctors. Economically, they can do much better in larger communities, and in this area they have gravitated to nearby areas with hospitals, like Derby, New Haven and Waterbury. Beacon Falls has a local nurse on its payroll, but she is available only on a limited basis and mostly conducts blood-pressure and diabetes screenings.
So, it's no surprise that Beacon Falls recently celebrated like the Fourth of July when Dr. Sudipta Dey, a 38-year-old internist from India, opened a primary-care center there. The town threw a "Welcome Dr. Dey Day" in April, a big open-house-type party complete with an office ribbon cutting, a proclamation, clowns, music, balloons and refreshments. The Kreneskys later presented Dr. Dey with a series of historic town photographs to hang on the wall of his new waiting room. "He's not only our first doctor, he's our first town museum, too," Mrs. Krenesky said.
Dr. Dey said he still can't believe the fanfare his arrival has caused. "I never heard of a community welcoming a doctor like this," Dr. Dey said. "I sent my mother in India some photos of the party. It was beyond my wildest dreams."
Town leaders and local medical officials said the same of the serendipitous chain of events that brought Dr. Dey to Beacon Falls. First Selectwoman Susan Cable said she and officials of Griffin Hospital in Derby worked for more than two years to find a doctor willing to open an office in town. At least three doctors didn't work out. The process began, Mrs. Cable said, when she attended a hospital presentation two years ago.
"I was somewhat taken aback that the hospital was basically writing off Beacon Falls because not a lot of people were using Griffin," Mrs. Cable said. "I spoke up and said in all my years as a selectwoman, they never spoke to us about our health needs."
A federal study conducted in the 1970's and still widely quoted calls for one physician per 3,500 people, and "our population warranted having a doctor," Mrs. Cable said. At the same time, she said, the town was building a new regional high school and courting businesses for its new industrial park -- the town's biggest employer, Uni royal, a rubber manufacturer, shut down in 1980. And, she said, in recent years, more people were moving to Beacon Falls from New York and Fairfield County to take advantage of lower housing prices.
"We were thinking that having a doctor in town could only improve the quality of life here," she said.
In the meantime, Dr. Dey, unaware of all the high-level discussions and doctor searches, was a full-time teaching faculty member at Griffin Hospital, but was growing disenchanted with the transient nature of treating only hospital patients.
"At a hospital, you see patients who are very sick people," he said. "You treat them and send them off. But it takes time to build a relationship with patients. Once you do that, then you can treat the patient as a whole." Dr. Dey said his holistic philosophy was a result of seeing how his late father, a physician in Demow, a small town in India where Dr. Dey grew up, treated his patients.
"I come from a small community like Beacon Falls," he said. "People used to drop by my father's office and say hello. I liked that idea and I liked my father's style. He spent 45 years in the same town."
But the realization that he yearned to pattern his career after his father's didn't hit him right away.
"In the beginning, I wanted to be a cardiologist and joined a big hospital in Calcutta that specialized in cardiac care," he said. "But I found it very localized; you're looking at one organ system all that time and that's it."
After Calcutta, Dr. Dey spent three years in England with his wife, Bindu, also a physician who practices in Shelton, pursuing cardiology opportunities. He landed at Griffin Hospital in 1995, a result of a recruitment program. Last year, Dr. Dey mentioned to Patrick Charmel, the hospital president, that he was interested in opening a community practice, "and within a couple of weeks, he came back and said he thought he had something for me," Dr. Dey said. "It was very good timing."
Dr. Dey's first exposure to Beacon Falls was when a women's group invited him to a potluck supper at a local church earlier this year. "I liked the community feeling," Dr. Dey said. "At the end of the supper they gave me a banana bread to give to my wife." This bribery aside, Dr. Dey said: "I had the same feeling I had with my dad. It was a golden opportunity and I had to grab it."
Hospital and town officials found a building in Beacon Falls in which the landlord was storing antique cars and persuaded him to let them renovate the space into a doctor's office.
"By contractual agreement, Griffin Hospital did his start-up and is responsible for the building renovations," said Bill Powanda, vice president of Griffin Hospital. "As his practice builds, he will become his own business." Dr. Dey will draw a salary from the hospital until his practice becomes profitable, Mr. Powanda said. 
Dr. Dey's move to open a small-community practice while remaining affiliated with a hospital reflects a growing trend in the medical community, said Bob Brunell, director of scientific affairs for the Connecticut Medical Society, which represents 7,000 doctors. "Trends are dictated by the economics of health care," Mr. Brunell said. "In an HMO environment, physicians are expected to see more and more patients in the same amount of time, or less. It becomes more and more difficult for a physician to develop a close relationship with patients."
But at the same time, he said, more doctors with smaller practices are joining larger groups or hospitals. "Physicians who don't have affiliations will be out in the cold," Mr. Brunell said. Dr. Dey's situation is the best of both worlds. "I would guess he's really gotten off with a bang," Mr. Brunell said. 
Indeed, Dr. Dey may own the practice sooner than anyone expected. He opened the Pines Bridge Primary Care Center in April with three patients and already has more than 100. Word of Dr. Dey's personal attention to his patients and early-morning and late-evening office hours has traveled fast. Mrs. Cable said her son has switched to Dr. Dey, as has her sister and her mother. "They tease me because I havent switched yet," she said.
In fact, many patients related similar experiences of new, family-wide allegiances to Dr. Dey based on his "old-fashioned" doctoring.
"He reminds me of those cowboy pictures where the doctors went to the house and delivered a baby, like 'Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman,' " said David Murphy, 59, of Beacon Falls, referring to the television show. "The guy actually talks to you. I feel safe with him."
Mr. Murphy, who is a diabetic with a history of heart problems, talked about a recent gesture by Dr. Dey that had cemented Mr. Murphy's devotion. He said that the doctor called him the day after an announcement that the cholesterol-reducing drug Baycol was linked to 52 deaths worldwide to make sure he wasn't taking the medication. "Isn't that something?" Mr. Murphy said.
Peter Sokolowski, a 54-year-old aircraft electrician who lives in Beacon Falls, said that he was looking for a new doctor closer to home when he heard Dr. Dey was coming to town.
"He has special hours," Mr. Sokolowski said. "One day he's open from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m., which is great because you can go after work. The guy's been like gold. My wife is switching to him now."
For Dr. Dey, the feeling is mutual. He said he was enjoying the relationships he was building with his new patients, but was struck by one in particular. It's the one that came to mind when he is asked what he has liked most about being a small-town doctor.
"I have one old patient, who was one of my first," he said. "Initially when he came in he was very depressed. I found some ailments and treated them, and he got better. He came in a few days ago and his wife said to me, 'You saved his life.' That made me feel very good."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Sudipta Dey, right, is the first full-time doctor Beacon Falls has had for decades. With him are Kelly Domondon, a nurse, left, and Patty Ceritello. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dr. Sudipta Dey treats Peter Sokolowski. Beacon Falls threw a big party for Dr. Dey, who grew up in a town in India, when he opened his office. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 6); The downtown area of Beacon Falls, which now has its first fulltime doctor in about 50 years. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HOSPITALS (72%); HISTORIC SITES (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); DIABETES (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%); DIABETES TESTING (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

PERSON: DEY, SUPIDTA (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) BEACON FALLS (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



414 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Chance At Hartford Stage 

BYLINE:  By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
IT must be impolite, if not uncivil, to say a disparaging word about a new play by the venerable Horton Foote, the theater's last authentic articulator of a bygone time.
 Perhaps best known for two Oscar-winning screenplays, "To Kill a Mockingbird" and "Tender Mercies," Mr. Foote, at 85, goes on writing for the stage. 
 No matter that he presaged the decline of Broadway back in the mid-1950's. That was when he turned to or helped create other stages: off-Broadway and regional theater. And then there was television drama, of the early golden age when plays were performed live, unedited, immediate and unstoppable, to paraphrase Mr. Foote's recollections in "Beginnings," his second memoir, out in November. 
"Of the ever-declining theater, I have written 60 plays by now," Mr. Foote says. And he's still talking of the one to come, while "The Carpetbagger's Children," runs at Hartford Stage.
Chronicling intricate family ties and family wars, the new play belongs to Mr. Foote's increasing series of life and death in Harrison, Tex., his reinvention of Wharton, where he grew up and still resides.
Three elderly sisters are sitting -- truly, they sit, they stare, they sew, they do not get up . An homage to Chekhov is strictly intentional and nowhere comprehensible. Once, actually, there were four, but Beth, the favored one, died young, and mysteriously. Beth is an ever-present ghost; Brother, the unseen fool. 
The surviving sisters talk to the audience, hardly ever to each other. Traversing time, they recollect, in opposing, overlapping versions, the saga of their father, who paid no mind to ethics in his accumulation of 20,000 acres.
As Grace Anne (Jean Stapleton) the eldest sister, tells it, Papa got himself appointed County Treasurer and Tax Collector. Then, when the plantations were breaking up and people couldn't pay their taxes, he grabbed land left and right and held onto it. That's the townspeople's side of the story. 
It's also the side of the rebel, resigned Grace Anne, too. When she ran off with an unworthy man, Papa disinherited her. But but then every man was unworthy. Papa didn't want any of his daughters to marry, the better to keep the estate intact. 
In Mr. Foote's most complete works, details are invariably colorful, sometimes charting a genealogical journey, including cousins once removed. And the story is irrevocably bound to universal truths.
Here, the details are details -- the cotton gin, the neat yards, the lovely flowers, the filling stations that have replaced the big old houses. The truths are a stretch, demanding a search; the motivations, blurred. 
One needn't relate to old-time provincial mores to be touched by lost souls, screaming on the inside, locked into tranquility and repose. Mr. Foote's perennial themes of sisterly rivalry, brotherly mismanagement, divided families squabbling over inequitably divided estates and the catalogue of resentments that come with the territory of blood relationships, always lurk underneath. 
In "The Carpetbagger's Children," the disconnection between dialogue and subtext is traceable to the words. With Michael Wilson, more as spiritual disciple than director, the three actors are quite beyond merely reverential, being so precisely tuned into Mr. Foote's elusive style, as to form a chamber trio. They are masterly storytellers, but their stories are not very involving, interesting or theatrically rooted.
Unlike Ms. Stapleton and, in particular, Hallie Foote, the playwright's daughter, who instinctively draw upon an established Foote repertory, Roberta Maxwell appears to have no such credits on her otherwise considerable resume. You couldn't tell. Ms. Maxwell is possessed of the elegance and cool that define Cornelia, the daughter with the business savvy. Casually controlling, she matter-of-factly calls Grace Anne "jealous-hearted," convincing us she is the story's driving force; that is, until the swelling of emotion overtakes her final moments. If only the hold of "The Carpetbagger's Children" were as steady as the nuanced skills of its interpreters.
Memory plays are a theater staple. But "The Carpetbagger's Children" is all memory, no play; all exposition, no event. Centered on an unseen Confederate con man, and his dotty, delusional wife, it becomes a rarefied study of ruthless people, demanding effort, patience and endurance. In the end, an appreciation of acting style is the evening's reward.
As for tiresomely evoking Chekhov, so handy, so misunderstood, how many playwrights do not not owe a chunk of their art to the Russian master? Mr. Foote has been, not aptly, called "the Chekhov of the small town" often enough as it is.
Mr. Foote's stage work, like the art house or independent film, is for a specialized, some would say an acquired, taste. Even at its finest, the cadences and deceptive simplicity of language, the subtleties and hidden aspects of character are not easy to grasp. 
In its first New York staging, his Pulitzer Prize play, "The Young Man from Atlanta" was not fully realized. A stunning Broadway production followed, starring Rip Torn and Shirley Knight. Armed with star power and Pulitzer prestige, the play did not have box-office appeal.
Perhaps with such economic practicality in mind, even though two other major regional theaters, the Alley in Houston and the Guthrie in Minneapolis, are sharing production costs, Hartford Stage chose "The Carpetbagger's Children" to open an experimental makeshift second stage series. 
The theater, coyly called Stage Too, is reconfigured to hold 340 seats, instead of the customary 489. For this production, folding chairs on platforms against the rear wall of the stage create an in-the-round effect. In the rear, divider units seal off a few rows. Yet the play gains little in closeness; we're talking less than 150 seats in a space that is hardly cavernous in the first place. 
But "The Carpetbagger's Children," strangely structured as it is, suggested a form new even for the unorthodox Mr. Foote. It seemed a longshot for mass appeal. But ticket sales have been lively and the run, which was to have ended Thursday, has been extended until next Sunday. 
It remains for two more Stage Too plays, the next to be designed for 252 seats and a thrust stage, to test intimate exchanges in a simulated theater-within-a-theater. The six-play mainstage season is to go on as ever, Oct. 4 through June 30.
By taking a chance on an unknown new work by a playwright who may be renowned, but isn't easy, Hartford theatergoers are playing an important part in determining the viability of the theater's new venture. 
A test case has been approved. So has a case example of how a lesser play can be perfectly played. One is reminded of Beckett, whose work, even more than Chekhov's, informs Foote's spare style. When told he had failed, Beckett replied: "Next time Ill fail better." 
Hartford Stage, 50 Church Street. Box office: (860) 527-5151.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roberta Maxwell as Cornelia in Horton Foote's "The Carpetbagger's Children" at Hartford Stage. (T. Charles Erickson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); ETHICS (63%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; FOOTE, HORTON; WILSON, MICHAEL (DIRECTOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: CARPETBAGGER'S CHILDREN, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



415 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Agency Offers a Backup Plan 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE DIGRAZIA 

 BODY:
SUSANNE MURPHY recalls that not too long ago there were not enough substitute teachers to fill in for absent teachers at Ansonia High School.
 "We had days when there were three classes of students in the media center because there were three teachers out that day and no subs to cover for them," said Ms. Murphy, the Ansonia assistant school superintendent. "The biggest problem was that the room had to be closed to other students. It took the library and media center offline. No one could use it for research, which is so vital for learning." 
 These days, Ansonia school officials say they no longer fret over whether they will be able to round up enough substitutes each morning.
Since the 2000-1 school year, the school system has contracted with a temporary employment agency, Kelly Educational Staffing, an off-shoot of Kelly Services, which provides as many substitute teachers as needed on any given day.
"The whole relationship is just perfect," Ms. Murphy said. "We're very, very happy."
Ansonia, like all school systems in Connecticut and the nation, faces the daily difficulty of finding qualified substitute teachers.
According to a survey released in March 2000 by the Substitute Teaching Institute at Utah State University, 96 percent of the nation's school districts face substitute teacher shortages, with the average school district having a daily absentee teacher rate between an 8 and 10 percent.
With Connecticut having one of the nation's lowest numbers of unemployed workers -- the usual pool for substitute teachers -- this all spells trouble when it comes to replacing any of the state's 45,000 teachers, Tom Murphy, the spokesman for the state Department of Education, said. 
"We don't collect statistics, but we're finding more school systems are availing themselves of these temporary services because it's a really efficient way to find the necessary people they need day in and day out," Mr. Murphy said. "When this happens, school districts free up the resources they use in finding those people every morning."
The National Education Association recently surveyed the substitute teacher situation in all 50 states and said Connecticut had "no exemplary substitute teaching programs."
Ms. Murphy can attest to that. She said that Ansonia school officials were dissatisfied with recruitment efforts that produced few, if any, qualified substitute teachers.
"Most of it was word-of-mouth recruitment," she said. "Or teacher candidates we did not hire would get 'sorry' letters that ended by saying, 'If you'd like to substitute teach, let us know.' "
When Kelly Educational Staffing approached the school system in 1999 with details of a program that was already in place in other parts of the country, Ansonia officials were all ears, Ms. Murphy said. Their school system became the first in Connecticut to use Kelly substitutes.
Dr. Ed Favolise, Ansonia's superintendent of schools, said that about 70 Kelly substitute teachers are used each week throughout the school system, totaling about 2,520 a year.
Kelly pays its substitutes the going rate in each municipality, usually ranging from $50 to $100 a day, and charges an administrative fee that varies with each school system.
Jeffrey Whone, the Ansonia schools business manager, said the school system pays Kelly Services $74.25 per substitute teacher. Of that amount, the substitute receives $60. He said Ansonia's budget for substitute teachers for the 2001-2 school year was $100,000. 
Ten school districts in Connecticut, including Meriden, Branford, East Haven and Woodbridge, use Kelly Educational Staffing, and three contracts are pending, said JoAnn Ryan, the district manager of Kelly Services in Waterbury.
"At the height of this year in my district, which includes Litchfield, Middlesex and New Haven counties, we'll place between 150 and 200 substitutes a day," Ms. Ryan said.
Ms. Ryan said that Kelly's substitutes meet local certification requirements, which include holding a bachelor's degree, and must submit to fingerprinting and background checks if requested by the school system.
"We also relieve the school system of the hiring, recruiting, advertising, training, orientation, scheduling, payroll and retention issues," Ms. Ryan said.
She said that Kelly's substitute-teacher pool in Connecticut was filled with retirees, people who want to change careers, and stay-at-home mothers looking to get back to work.
While Kelly apparently has answered the needs of the Ansonia school system, there are still some people who scoff at the idea of using "temps" to fill in for teachers.
Shirley Kirsten, president of the National Substitute Teachers Association in Washington, said that the responsibility of recruiting, referral and placement of substitute teachers belonged with the school district, not Kelly Educational Staffing. 
"Kelly is a for-profit agency whose goal is to maximize profit," Ms. Kirsten said. "Whereas the school district rests on a very different foundation or premise: that of educating students. Some school districts that have contracted with Kelly to place substitutes have paid up to $30 in fees per subs that are not passed down to the subs."
She said, for example, that in Chicopee, Mass., the school district pays Kelly $95.90 for a substitute, who then receives only $70.
Ms. Murphy said that there had been no concerns raised by the Ansonia teachers' union.
But Luba Soldra, president of Ansonia's teachers' union, said the union was "not thrilled" with the arrangement with Kelly Services.
"The reality is, we had no choice," Ms. Soldra said. "The Board of Education believed it was a financial decision, but we don't buy that because a clause in the teachers' contract ties substitute pay to teachers' severance pay. So, whenever we talked about raising the pay for subs, it always came back to the severance pay issue. If they can keep the sub pay down, they don't have to increase severance pay. Rather than change that, they hired Kelly Services."
Ms. Ryan of Kelly Services said: "We try to talk to the unions to stress that this is a service we are not only providing to school systems, but to teachers and subs as well. We're helping by offering the substitutes resources, training and orientation."
Out of 1,600 Kelly substitutes across the nation, Kelly chose Jane Barth of Ansonia as the National Substitute Teacher of the Year for the 2000-1 school year, an award that brought Ms. Barth a $250 gift certificate.
Ms. Barth, who was a stay-at-home mother with a bachelor's degree in psychology before she became a substitute teacher in Ansonia schools, said not too much had changed since Kelly took over.
"The pay is the same," she said. "I just get called by a Kelly person every morning instead of someone in the school system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jane Barth, selected the National Substitute Teacher of the Year, teaching at a school in Ansonia. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (98%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (93%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: KELLY SERVICES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY (55%) KELLY SERVICES INC; KELLY EDUCATIONAL STAFFING 

TICKER: KELYB (NASDAQ) (56%); KELYA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (56%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (56%) SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES; 

PERSON: DIGRAZIA, CHRISTINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



416 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2881 words

HEADLINE: One Man's Vision: The Tappan Tunnel 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON 

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN 

 BODY:
ABOUT a year ago, Alexander Saunders began showing up at community meetings with his outlandish proposal to replace the aging Tappan Zee Bridge with a seven-mile tunnel, from the Palisades Mall to Elmsford.
The bridge project is a sensitive one here, and at first Mr. Saunders's Tappan Tunnel idea served mostly as comic relief.
 But that is changing. 
 Mr. Saunders, 62, a big, wild-eyed man with disheveled hair, a tireless tongue and not an ounce of tunnel construction experience, has been neglecting his foundry supply business to preach his tunnel theory. 
He has discussed it over lunch with John R. Platt, executive director of the New York State Thruway Authority, and over yard work with Gov. George E. Pataki, who is his neighbor in Garrison. He has persuaded major tunnel-boring companies to send representatives to local public forums.
And, to hear state officials tell it, he has succeeded in getting the state to at least consider replacing the Tappan Zee Bridge with a tunnel.
"It's gone from a suggestion out of the blue to becoming something other people believe in strongly," said Mr. Saunders, whom everyone calls Sandy.
Terry O'Brien, a spokesman for the Thruway Authority, said the proposal for a Tappan Tunnel "is on equal footing" with those for bridges.
"The slate's clean and everything is on the table at this point," Mr. O'Brien added. "A tunnel is just as much an option as a bridge. Now we have to see if it makes sense from an engineering, economic and environmental standpoint."
The agency recently selected four consulting firms, three of which are engineering and design consultants with experience building tunnels and bridges worldwide. (The fourth is a public relations company to handle publicity for the process.)
The firms will examine the technology, cost, and environmental impact and benefits of constructing a tunnel, Mr. O'Brien said. "The evaluation process is only in the embryonic stages," he said. "We're going to get as much public input as possible and judge every option on its merits."
The Tappan Zee Bridge is 45 years old and suffering from corrosion, cracks and other structural problems requiring costly daily maintenance. Last year, a state task force recommended replacing the bridge with a new, wider one. The Thruway Authority, which is responsible for the bridge, is conducting a three-year study to determine whether to replace or rehabilitate it.
According to the agency's preliminary estimates, it would cost $1.1 billion to rehabilitate the current bridge, and about the same to replace it. A new bridge, with one added lane and room for a commuter rail line, would cost about $1.5 billion. (A rehabilitated bridge could not accommodate a rail line at all.)
A much larger project, which would include building an extensive passenger rail line linking Stewart Airport to Metro-North, would cost an estimated $4.5 billion. The state says that no decision will be made until 2004, and no project will be completed until at least 2010.
Mr. Saunders insists that with modern tunnel-boring machines, the kind used in Europe to build the Chunnel and other major tunnels, a Tappan Tunnel could be built faster and at lower cost than a replacement bridge. And, he says, it would require far less maintenance and would last longer.
Basically, he envisions two parallel tubes starting at the Palisades Mall exit of the Thruway and passing through Nyack a bit south of the Thruway. They would cross the Hudson about 500 feet south of the present bridge, and surface at Exit 8 on Interstate 287, in Elmsford.
Each tube would have three or four lanes of roadway on an upper level and a track on a lower one, for passengers and freight. Mr. Saunders favors a train line connecting Metro-North to the CSX West Shore Line in Rockland County, a freight line currently being considered for conversion to a commuter rail.
Tunnel depth would vary: from some 50 feet below sea level when crossing the river banks, to 140 feet deep at its lowest point, beneath the main channel of the river. Mr. Saunders, basing his estimates on the prices for many European tunnel projects, speculates that his seven-mile tunnel would cost about $1.4 billion.
Modern tunnels are safe, he said, cost less than roadways and bridges to maintain, and last 50 years longer than the typical bridge and road projects. He said his idea is only far-fetched in that the state has never seriously considered a tunnel option before.
Actually, Mr. Saunders's crusade goes beyond a Hudson crossing. Replacing the bridge alone, he insists, would hardly solve the congestion that extends for miles in either direction from the bridge, including I-287, the Cross Westchester Expressway.
"Replacing the Tappan Zee Bridge with a tunnel is a no-brainer," he said. "I realize people think a tunnel across Westchester is far-fetched, but the more they learn about it, the less far-fetched it is."
He envisions a tunnel that would extend the roughly 10 miles across Westchester, to run beneath and replace I-287. 
His ultimate vision is a 45-mile passage, crossing from Rockland to Westchester and under Long Island Sound to the North Shore of Long Island. This Grand Ring, as he calls it, from Suffern to Syosset, would cost around $10 billion, Mr. Saunders said.
"A Tappan Tunnel would be a great first step, but traffic in New Jersey, Westchester and Long Island is going to be a continuing mess, and we need a larger solution," he said. The land now occupied by I-287 -- "millions and millions of dollars in expensive real estate" -- could be restored to local communities for parks or development, he said.
Mr. Saunders has discussed his proposals in public meetings and at news conferences. Though his Tappan Tunnel idea draws serious interest, his Grand Ring idea is pretty much relegated to the realm of novelty, appealing mostly to frustrated commuters and science fiction fans.
The Tappan Tunnel proposal, however, has caused quite a buzz around the village of Tarrytown in recent months, its mayor, Paul Janos, said, adding, "People here really think it's worth looking into, for the environment, for traffic reasons and for the Hudson."
Mr. Saunders has presented his ideas to Governments United in Action for Responsible Development, a coalition of elected officials from 25 local municipalities along I-287. The group, known as Guard, wants the bridge repaired, said Sherwood B. Chorost, a founder and a Tarrytown trustee. But if this is not feasible, he added, the group would like to see a tunnel built because "it just makes sense."
"A tunnel shows real promise," he said. "It's not on the average person's radar screen, but there are many positives. It would help the air quality and the noise problem. It seems to win on all counts.
"Just picture what that river would look like if you erased that steel monster," he said.
Overall, tunnel experts say that a Tappan Tunnel would be rather straightforward to build. But they also agreed on the obstacles: financial, political and one of public acceptance.
"This is no futuristic Buck Rogers idea," said Albert Appleton, a senior fellow for the Regional Plan Association in Manhattan. "In Europe, a tunnel like this would be considered as a matter of course. To the extent that it is seen as off-the-wall, all that goes away once the first one is built here."
Mr. Appleton directed the association's successful four-year campaign to get the state to consider building a four-mile tunnel to replace the Gowanus Expressway, from the Verrazano Bridge to the Battery Tunnel.
At first, he said the proposal "had to pass the laugh test." But public forums, constant contact with state legislators, and the creation of detailed tunnel reports all helped raise consciousness enough to get the state's consideration. The Gowanus Tunnel would consist of at least two tubes, holding eight lanes of traffic. According to preliminary estimates, rebuilding the highway would cost $1.5 billion, and a tunnel would cost $3.5 billion.
Mr. Saunders said he came up with his tunnel ideas while traveling in Europe, where large tunnels are common. In the past year or so, he has swamped state officials with tunnel information. He said that although Governor Pataki's office has never officially responded to his letters, the governor is well-acquainted with the tunnel plan. Mr. Pataki was hiking by Mr. Saunders's farm recently and stopped by to chat, Mr. Saunders said.
"I said, 'Governor, I'm keeping your staff well acquainted with my ideas for the Tappan Zee Bridge study.' He looked up and said, 'No, Sandy, you mean the Tappan Tunnel study.' "
State and county transportation officials have attended local meetings organized by Mr. Saunders. At one such meeting in Tarrytown in May, Mr. Saunders introduced a panel of tunnel consultants and representatives from tunnel-boring machine companies.
One such company was Herrenknecht, a German manufacturer of tunnel-boring machines. 
The Herrenknecht official suggested using a machine with a 50-foot diameter, weighing about 1,300 tons and costing more than $50 million to build, deliver and assemble. It simultaneously digs and builds a tunnel at the rate of about 40 to 50 feet per day in gravel-sand soil, which is found under the Hudson.
Propelled by hydraulics, the huge rotary cutter excavates material and passes it to rail cars and out of the tunnel. It then immediately cases the tunnel in concrete. The excavated gravel could be used to make the concrete for the tubes, and sold to defray costs, Mr. Saunders said.
A handful of residents attended the meeting, and at first, many were bewildered and skeptical. But halfway into the meeting, the skepticism gave way to curious questions to the panelists about various tunnel-boring techniques. ("What do you do with all the dirt?" and "What are the machine's blades made out of?")
Experts say that tunnel-boring technology has come of age, with the use of computer-operated tunnel cutters, but America is far behind Europe and the Far East in terms of using it.
The 31-mile Channel Tunnel, or Chunnel, connecting England to France was completed in 1995 and cost about $15 billion. (It is a rail tunnel only, and narrower than what Mr. Saunders proposes.) The St. Gotthard Tunnel is a 9.3-mile-long railway tunnel with two tubes, running through the Swiss Alps. It cost $10 billion.
The Westerschelde is a 3.7-mile tunnel connecting Holland to Antwerp Harbor in Belgium. It has two tubes, each 36 feet wide with three traffic lanes, and it runs more than 200 feet below sea level. It cost $750 million and took about three years to build.
In a phone interview, Martin Herrenknecht, who owns the Herrenknecht company, estimated that a tunnel like the one Mr. Saunders envisions would take three years to build.
One obstacle would be selecting a company with enough experience in large tunnel projects, he said.
"It would be no problem building it," he said, "but for an American company to take on something of this size, they'd need a joint venture with an experienced European firm. The U.S. is at least 10 years behind Europe and Japan in building tunnels."
Mr. Saunders dropped out of a graduate engineering program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to work for his family business. For all his futuristic visions, he freely admits that he is hardly technology-oriented. He is still struggling to set up his cell phone voice mail, and his wife sorts through scraps of paper to find phone numbers.
"I'm a handwriting person," said Mr. Saunders, who is friendly with Pete Seeger and was the first president of the Clearwater Organization, a Hudson Valley environmental group, and with his father helped found another environmental group, Scenic Hudson. His other causes include a crusade to erect a monument to the buffalo out West.
The tunnel idea, he insists, is his latest conservation effort. He speaks of highways as "barbaric desecrations" of the land, arguing that a Tappan Tunnel would eliminate the intrusion that a bridge and roadways have made on the environment. Also, the tunnel would have a system to cleanse car exhaust of pollutants. 
Long a champion of the public process, Mr. Saunders now wonders if Nimby-ism might work against his project, one he calls the "boldest and most imaginative and sweeping project in this region in several decades."
"Things have changed," he said. "Never has there been so much public negativity about anything. Public review policies have empowered the public to just arbitrarily say 'no' and feel they're right. There's so much discussion that nothing can get done.
"You used to have a level of positive excitement and a willingness to spend money on bold, grand projects -- going to the moon, the World's Fair -- a level of excitement where people get enthusiastic about seeing something happen, but now people say 'no' because it's easier to say.
"It makes you wonder if even something like Yankee Stadium could get built today," he continued. "Could we have built the Interstate highway system in our time? Or the Central Railroad? I'm not sure Robert Moses could have done it today. You have to devote too much to politics to making it happen."
Nowhere in this region, or even this country, is there a tunnel of the magnitude of the one Mr. Saunders proposes. The question remains: is it practical?
"Is this feasible? It is certainly is," said Randall J. Essex, a vice president of Hatch Mott MacDonald, a tunnel engineering firm that worked on the Chunnel. "This kind of project has been done elsewhere for years. The question is: is it cost-effective? Tunnels are generally more expensive to build than bridges, but there are benefits for quality of life of people around it."
Mr. Saunders's crusade is well known in the close-knit tunnel-building industry, Mr. Essex said, adding, "These kind of projects start with passionate advocates." 
To get a large tunnel project built, he said, it is crucial to make it a priority in the region and to win support from state government officials, no mean feat. "You can't expect state D.O.T.'s in this country to know anything about tunneling," he said.
"Then to obtain federal funding, you've got to have someone championing this project in Congress or the Senate," he said.
Other ambitious tunnel proposals have been kicking around the region for years, including the Gowanus Expressway proposal. There is also the decades-old plan for a freight tunnel under New York Harbor from New Jersey to Brooklyn. Boston is currently in the middle of its so-called "Big Dig," a large underground highway (about half of the 7.8-mile corridor is underneath the city) scheduled to be completed by 2004. The project was originally budgeted at $3 billion, but was expanded and increased in scope to $14.4 billion.
While some speak of mammoth tunnels as a thing of the future, they are really a thing of the past, at least in this area. No major ones have been built here in the last half-century.
The Holland, Lincoln and Battery Tunnels were all built before World War II.
In fact, the Tappan Tunnel idea actually predates the Tappan Zee Bridge. In the 1930's, a decade before the bridge was even on the drawing board, a tunnel was proposed by a Rockland assemblyman, Frederick R. Horn. In 1933, he began holding public meetings. 
Engineers from the Reliance Construction Company prepared a preliminary proposal to build a two-lane tunnel to be built in 300-foot sections on land and then floated out, connected and sunk down to the river bed.
"Now is the opportune time for the construction of this tunnel," the proposal said.
But even today, many transportation experts are skeptical that the state would agree to build a Tappan Tunnel. As feasible as it is to build, it would be difficult to even get considered, much less approved.
Jeffrey M. Zupan, a senior fellow for transportation at the Regional Plan Association in Manhattan, said it would be difficult to get the state to approve a tunnel project, even if it were the best overall proposal.
"Governments tend to be conservative," he said, adding that factors like economic downturns, as well as tax and toll increases, would be discouraging.
Thomas J. Abinanti, a county legislator, also favors examining the tunnel proposal, but agrees that it could well be undone by the political process.
"It makes too much sense, so it probably won't happen," said Mr. Abinanti, a Democrat who represents the area around the Westchester side of the bridge and has been outspoken in calling for ways to solve congestion. "I think we ought to study it very seriously."
In terms of financing, a Tappan Tunnel project would certainly take a back seat to other transportation construction projects with much more support in the metropolitan area: a Long Island Rail Road link to Grand Central Terminal, a Second Avenue subway in Manhattan, the Brooklyn rail freight tunnel and an expanded commuter rail line to New Jersey and Rockland County.
And one factor that might discourage the state from even considering Mr. Saunders's tunnel proposal is that the Thruway Authority is in the middle of a $187 million project to reconfigure I-287 near the Tappan Zee Bridge. It is the authority's largest reconstruction plan ever.
Nevertheless, Mr. Saunders insists that increased awareness among the public and politicians will help bring the idea to the table.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alexander Saunders, with the 45-year-old, deteriorating Tappan Zee Bridge behind him, insists that a tunnel could be built faster and at a lower cost than a replacement bridge. His tenacity has led the New York State Thruway Authority to put his Tappan Tunnel proposal on the table along with those for bridges. Inset: A tunneling machine that completed a tunnel under the Elbe River in Hamburg, Germany. (Above, George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times; inset top, Herrenknecht AG.)(pg. 1); A tunneling machine, above, that is completing a road tunnel on Motorway Ring A86 around Paris. It is 38 feet in diameter and is shown at the Herrenknecht factory. A tunneling machine, which is 21 feet in diameter, that completed subway tunnels in Bangkok.(Photographs from Herrenknecht AG.)(pg. 6) Chart: "A Route Under the Hudson" shows Holland, Lincoln, Chunnel, and proposed Tappan Tunnels' length, cost, and completed (except Tappan) year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (83%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%) BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; TAPPAN ZEE BRIDGE 

PERSON: SAUNDERS, ALEXANDER; KILGANNON, COREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (89%); THAILAND (79%) ELMSFORD (NY); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



417 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: The Early Education Of a Wine Taster 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

 BODY:
SINCE boyhood, the memory of fiveoclocksupper -- thought of as one word, like Presidentroosevelt -- has regulated my instincts. Even though dinner now ranges from 7 to 9 p.m., hunger automatically glances at my watch at 5.
 In Newark's poor Central Ward in the 1940's, we didn't eat dinner on weekdays. We ate supper, usually at 5 o'clock, 5:30 at the latest, on weekdays. The same recipe, when served on Saturday at 6 or Sunday at 4, when company came, was called dinner. 
 In a federal housing project, where I was raised for six years, if the dishes weren't washed and put away by 7 o'clock, something was suspiciously wrong. One couple who ate late and owned rooms full of books were thought to be Communists. 
Fiveoclocksupper implied an All-American evening ritual: fathers, workingmen all (mine was a shoe salesman), would drag home, wash up, eat at 5, put on slippers, read the sports and war news in The Newark Evening News, listen to the ball game and go to sleep.
From Monday to Friday, wine was as beyond my ken as the gossip columnists' beloved madcap heiresses who swigged cocktails in the Stork Club. Newark was famously a brewery town, and Dad favored Krueger's. Although ads implied that if the home front drank enough Coke the Nazis would lose, the rest of the family thrived on grape soda, sarsaparilla, birch beer and root beer. 
If supper, on oilcloth, was routine, dinner was ceremonial. A table was opened in the parlor and given an embroidered cloth. Dishes materialized from high kitchen shelves. Silverware emerged from a felt-lined box. Stemmed goblets appeared, to be filled with an all-purpose (fish, chicken, meat) kosher wine, Mogen David, a sweet Concord red, especially on holidays.
It was this wine and the tart Concord grape, which tastes like its wine (not all grapes do), that started my informal wine education. A Concord arbor behind my paternal grandparents' house in Long Branch, N.J., an old seaside resort, smelled swooningly delicious in high September.
Although the arbor dated to Prohibition, which put Grandpa's liquor store out of business, he, unlike Italian neighbors, didn't make wine: Grandma disapproved of any pleasure. Like clockwork, we all sat down to supper at 5 o'clock. Afterward, as they schmoozed on front-porch rockers, with Grandpa's connivance I stole grapes from fat clusters that soon became jelly kept cool in a dirt basement. Sometimes the juice started fermenting on the vine.
In Newark, on holidays and sometimes on the Sabbath we drank semidry raisin wine that my maternal grandmother, who lived with us, made in autumn. The fermentation aroma filled the house and made a lasting impression, as did the wine's piquancy and golden color. 
The only other really impressive wine I ever encountered in Newark was sweet plum stuff in an upstairs Chinese restaurant whose full dinners ran from 75 cents to $1.25, and, once, something French in a famous, ritzy restaurant beyond our means called the Tavern, where at lunch we celebrated my graduation from grammar school. 
My formal wine education began when the word aperitif, so rich in connotations of the Good Life, penetrated my awareness as a Rutgers freshman. 
The idea that wine tasted dry (who ever heard of a thing?) and could, after 5 p.m., actually stimulate rather than retard an appetite was a bombshell. My first glass of dry sherry, a nutty fino, at a fraternity brother's Park Avenue South apartment in Manhattan, was a divine revelation; thereafter, a glass of sweet Gallo muscatel at the Corner Tavern, a hangout in New Brunswick, held no interest.
The occasional students from France were so nonchalant about a glass of Pommard that their urbanity seemed unfathomable. (National habits never die: A student from the London School of Economics was overbearing about claret.) Aside from learning how to affect world weariness while holding a Pall Mall at a 45-degree angle, for me an enduring freshman lesson was that a swell red like Pommard needn't always be a big deal. 
College life brought countless thirsts and sea changes. Although I ascended to Chianti by graduation, beer had triumphed. Wine went underground until, 18 years later, I rediscovered it, in German rieslings. Since then, almost daily a wish for a dry kabinett or dry spatlese has arisen, invariably signaling the arrival of, no surprise, 5 o'clock.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Beata Szpura) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (87%); GRANDPARENTS (86%); FAMILY (75%); POULTRY (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); BREWERIES (70%); BEER & ALE (70%); RESORTS (69%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); WRITERS (68%); WINE (66%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



418 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
New Strains, But Nothing The System Can't Handle

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
INVESTORS, rendered speechless by terrorists last week, will get their voice back at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow, when trading resumes for the first time since last Monday. Almost certainly, they will not be in a sunny mood. But how bleak they feel will be a matter of intense interest and conjecture.
 James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, assessed the market impact even as he righted himself from the tragedy last week: stranded in Denver for two days, Mr. Paulsen spoke from a rental car somewhere in Nebraska as he headed home. Following are excerpts from the conversation. 

Q.Some have argued that the world became a fundamentally different place last Tuesday. Do you agree?

A. I don't see this as a systemic event that is going to create long-term fundamental economic problems. We will have short-term problems as a consequence of what happened, but if nothing else happens there will not be warlike distortions that have no determining end.
Certain industries will be impacted for quite some time. But fairly quickly the undertone of the economy in general will move to the front burner again.

Q. Which industries will be hurt?

A. The insurance industry will be impacted. Insurance claims stemming from the attacks are estimated at $25 billion to $30 billion. To put that in perspective, the tax rebate this year amounts to $38 billion. So those claims are going to have a significant impact on insurance stocks. The airline industry will be significantly impacted, even after they get planes in the air. The energy industry will feel this, because a big component of fuel usage is jet fuel, and that will go down. For the short term, earnings of the financial industry will be impacted, primarily the asset management and brokerage communities.

Q. Will shaken consumer confidence be a drag on the economy?

A. The attacks will impact consumers over the next couple of months. But the biggest challenge is not this as much as it is the loss of jobs. The unemployment rate might be headed to 5.5 percent.

Q. Is there any good news coming out of what happened last week?

A. Even without the crisis, the economy was heading into recession. The good thing about this situation is that it is bringing a lot of monetary and fiscal stimulus to the forefront right now. Without the attacks, it would have taken a much longer period of time to get this kind of stimulus.

Q. The Federal Reserve pumped a lot of liquidity into the banking system last week, but it did not cut short-term interest rates. Do you expect that to happen soon?

A. I still expect the Fed will cut rates in the next couple of days. They may want to wait until the New York Stock Exchange opens on Monday before they go.
The bond market is certainly expecting a cut. On Thursday, three-month Treasury bill rates were trading at 2.75 percent, which is three-quarters of a percentage point under the overnight federal funds rate. So the markets are looking for a cut of at least one-quarter of a point, and maybe half a point.

Q. Could interest rates go even lower?

A. Fear and arguments about recession are going to be with us for the year. It will take mortgage rates at 6 percent to promote a full-fledged refinancing cash-flow cycle, something that creates much more stimulus than any tax cut. A 6 percent mortgage implies a 4 percent, 10-year Treasury note, which in turn implies a federal funds rate of 2 percent to 2.5 percent. It is possible we will get to that point sometime next year.

Q. What do you advise?

A. There are ways what happened last week could escalate, but at this point I am optimistic this is not going to be an ongoing event that will disrupt the economy. But if you want to dream up the worst-case scenario, there is probably no better place than cash in your mattress or gold.
More realistically, it depends what investors were doing in the period leading up to this tragedy. If you were overweight equities, it might be time to buy some bonds. If you were way overweighted in consumer cyclical stocks and in retailers, reduce your allocation there. But if you were already defensive, I wouldn't do much. And if the stock market moves much lower, I would be moving back into stocks. And in times of economic crisis, larger-company stocks tend to do better than small-company stocks.

Q. What areas interest you?

A. We have been very focused on noneconomic sensitive sectors like consumer staples and health care. They look very exciting if retailing and capital goods are suffering without any leverage from the economy. And we are looking at interest-sensitive areas that pay dividends, like utilities, high-quality financial service stocks and integrated oil companies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paulsen 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); INSURANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); RECESSION (71%); JET FUEL (69%); AIRLINES (69%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); TAX RELIEF (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); LAYOFFS (61%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WELLS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

PERSON: PAULSEN, JAMES W; GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



419 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Volkswagen Lupo; 
A Thrifty Spin in a 99 M.P.G. Car

 BODY:
IN Italian, lupo means wolf, but for much of Europe it also denotes the smallest car in Volkswagen's litter. The Lupo 3 Liter TDI is also VW's most efficient. "Three liter" stands not for engine displacement or size, but for fuel efficiency: three liters per 100 kilometers in European measure, or 99 miles a gallon.
 That figure was the four-minute mile of fuel efficiency. With the Lupo 3 Liter, Volkswagen beat Opel, Renault, Fiat and other automakers to seize the bragging rights for selling the first, and so far only, production vehicle to reach this miserly pinnacle. 
 Last year, a fleet of Lupo 3 Liters drove around the world in 80 days, averaging better than 99 m.p.g. But their passage across the United States was barely noted. Today, however, with fuel prices moving higher (although American gasoline remains laughably low to Europeans), the Lupo might get more attention. 
Could a car like this -- with its sophisticated turbocharged direct-injection diesel engine and astonishing fuel numbers -- be practical for the American lifestyle? President Bush's advisers have declared 80 m.p.g. an unrealistic goal, perhaps because the target was set by the Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles set up by the Clinton administration.
VW has no plans to sell the Lupo -- which comes in several guises in Europe, including a hot GTI -- in the United States. Volkswagen does sell a 90-horsepower, four-cylinder version of the TDI engine in North America in Golfs, Jettas and New Beetles, and the manual-transmission Beetle gets 49 m.p.g. on the highway.
As so-called Tier 1 vehicles under California's complex clean-air regulations, TDI's are limited to 3,000 units of each model per model year. Similar restrictions apply in New York, part of a Northeast consortium of states that follow the California rules. VW sold its 2001 consignment of 11,000 by June; the 2002's are now arriving.
The engine in the Lupo 3 Liter, however, is nearly twice as clean as the larger TDI.
The Lupo is slightly shorter than the Suzuki Swift but feels roomier inside. It is smaller than the VW Polo sold outside North America, which is tinier still than the Golf, the smallest VW sold in the United States. 
To get 99 m.p.g., VW made the Lupo light. In the 3 Liter, VW engineers used aluminum and magnesium wherever possible, including in the hood. They reduced the power drawn by accessories. There is no power steering. The windows must be cranked, and the mirrors must be adjusted by hand. The Lupo does, however, offer air-conditioning, and unlike the power-robbing units on small cars like the old Chevy Metro, once the star of Florida rental fleets, the Lupo's system does not offer a stark choice between acceleration and refrigeration.
VW also honed the aerodynamics of the round-face vehicle. But the Lupo hit the three-liter mark primarily by using a diesel -- and not a rugged, old-fashioned, sooty diesel, but a newer turbocharged direct-injection diesel with a computer chip to regulate its breathing.
The Lupo 3 Liter is available across Europe, where a third of all new cars -- and well over half all luxury cars -- are diesels. The owner's manual offers service addresses from Manchester to Minsk.
Hitting the three-liter average while meeting emissions standards depends on using low-sulfur diesel. The test car came already filled, with warnings not to add American diesel, which has a higher sulfur content -- up to 300 parts per million, compared with European standards that range as low as 10 parts per million -- and therefore produces higher sulfur dioxide emissions. VW would like to see all the sulfur removed from diesel -- Sweden sells fuel as low as 10 parts per million -- but it tunes the TDI's sold in the United States to the fuel here.
Diesels, you may recall from middle-school science class, are the oldest form of internal combustion engine and ignite from simple fuel compression, no spark needed. They are simpler and have fewer parts than do gasoline engines and therefore are more durable.
The Lupo raises these questions: Is diesel a potentially comparatively quick solution for reducing fuel consumption? Is it at least a short-term measure before hydrogen or fuel cells or other technologies mature and their supporting infrastructure is put in place?
Passenger-car diesel has a mixed record in the United States. Its image suffers from association with 18-wheel tractor-trailers whose smokestacks gush clouds of soot and memories of the erratic diesels General Motors offered in the late 1970's. Even VW's American-built diesel Rabbits of the early 1980's were only partly successful.
Diesels inspire memories of slow winter starts, sluggish performance and shuddering at idle. But the TDI is a different animal. In the Golf or Jetta, it runs so smoothly -- without any "dieseling" vibration -- and accelerates so avidly as to be almost indistinguishable from a gasoline motor. 
The turbo direct-injection engine, a 1.2-liter three-cylinder, makes about 61 horses. It comes equipped with a version of the Tiptronic transmission, developed by Porsche, which runs in either an automatic or clutchless manual. But it idles less smoothly than does the larger TDI available in the New Beetle, Golf or Jetta. It does not offer the low-end response one might like on the 100-foot merge ramps onto some of the New York area's main arteries. 
Additional fuel economy is provided by the start-stop function. After three seconds at a stop light, the engine switches off, as it does in hybrid gasoline-electrics like the Toyota Prius. (The engine automatically and seamlessly starts back up when the accelerator is pressed.) 
To activate this feature the driver pushes the "eco" button, cleverly hidden among the climate controls. The feature is disconcerting at first but the driver's manual reports, "You will be happy to realize that one can very quickly get used to this driving style." What one cannot become used to is the Lupo's kinky power curve, with its lurching gaps between gears that see the engine drop from 2,800 revolutions per minute, to 2,000, for instance, as the unit shifts from first to second.
The interior wears the familiar Braun-Krups black Bauhaus look of other VW's, with cobalt and ruby-lighted instruments. Rear-seat room was not bad, according to a pair of customarily critical teenagers. The Lupo can fit into urban parking places that larger cars have to pass by, though maneuvering the car to within the customary Manhattan millimeter of a neighbor's bumper was more difficult without power steering. 
An m.p.g. needle gauge, similar to one that is standard in BMW's, is supplied, and in addition, the test car was run with a fuel computer that measured m.p.g. -- immediate and average -- and other variables. At cruise, the needle showed us above the three-liter mark and even with much idle time on the helix to the Lincoln Tunnel and other sluggish traffic funnels, the Lupo averaged around 62 m.p.g. over several days of driving -- a better real-world figure than even the Honda or Toyota hybrids.
In the New York area, the price of a gallon of diesel fuel is generally about 15 cents higher than that of regular gasoline. At one service station in suburban New Jersey, for example, a gallon of regular gas cost $1.56; diesel was $1.70. The price in the New York area is usually greater than that in regions like the Midwest, which have large farm economies and are laced with long-haul truck routes.
With its German plate number beginning WOB, for Wolfsburg, the test Lupo caught the eyes of many passers-by. Just so no one missed the fact it was a green car, the tester came in a hue charitably described as early spring grass and familiar to fans of certain Dodge muscle cars of the late 1960's.
"Is it Mopar?" asked one curious man, a Corvette owner. "A good commuter car for someone, I guess," he added doubtfully. On an adjacent lane of Route 46 in New Jersey, a man in a new Passat honked appreciatively and offered a thumbs up. A woman in Manhattan's West Village asked about the Lupo, then reminisced about her old Beetles. Another man was led to recall fondly his trusty VW diesel Dasher.
Several people swore they would buy one if it were offered for sale. Many used the word "cute." 
When VW introduced the TDI in 1995, the response was underwhelming. Now, it looks smart. VW plans a new, cleaner generation of the engine for the 2004 model year. The new engines will have four valves, instead of two, per cylinder and finer injection spray, for cleaner, more efficient combustion. Volkswagen is also planning a large diesel for its forthcoming D-1 luxury model, with 10 cylinders arranged like a W. Other makers are returning to diesel; the most powerful engine on BMW's new 7 series will be a diesel; it will be available only in Europe.
VW engineers say that relatively little work on the catalytic converter and particulate filter can improve diesel emissions significantly, and Federal regulations for 2006 will reduce the amount of sulfur in American diesel fuel. Wolfsburg's wolf may one day mature into a larger beast.

INSIDE TRACK: It's not so amazing that it was done well, but that it was done at all.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An automobile review of the Volkswagen Lupo 3 Liter TDI last Sunday misstated the American equivalent of its European mileage rating. Three liters per 100 kilometers, an overall figure for combined city and highway driving, is the equivalent of 78 miles per gallon, although VW says the car has achieved 99 miles per gallon in highway driving under ideal conditions. The reviewer's byline was also omitted. He was Phil Patton.

GRAPHIC: Photos: (pg. 1); VW's Lupo 3 Liter TDI, a turbocharged direct-injection diesel, can go 99 miles on a gallon of fuel. (Phil Patton for The New York Times)(pg. 4) Chart: "The Gas Misers" lists features and specifications for selected fuel economy cars. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (63%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN AG 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



420 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: THE FRAGILE CITY; 
'These Fantasies Have Been Horribly Realized'

BYLINE:  By MIKE WALLACE; Mike Wallace is distinguished professor of history at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, director of the Gotham Center for New York City History, and author, with Edwin G. Burrows, of "Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898."

 BODY:
THE hijacked planes that zeroed in on New York and Washington with such murderous accuracy obviously chose their targets for a reason. They didn't attack Los Angeles and Miami, after all. Why not? It's reasonable to assume that they chose cities and buildings that they believed had great symbolic and actual potency: the respective headquarters of the military and financial institutions whose decisions have tremendous impact throughout the globe.
 As we've seen from the outpouring of support from around the world, millions of people love and admire the United States and its pre-eminent urban centers. But others hate us passionately. Not, despite President Bush, because we are the land of the free and good, but because the nation has embraced policies from which they feel they've suffered. Driven by calculated strategy and suicidal fanaticism, they've dealt a terrific blow to proud towers and command centers alike. 
 New Yorkers are rolling with the blow magnificently, despite the added shock of having it come both figuratively and literally out of the clear blue sky, shattering our sense of invulnerability. But that sense always rested on a truncated reading of history. While the particular form of the attack was fiendishly novel, New York, over nearly four centuries, has repeatedly been the object of murderous intentions. Through a combination of luck and power, we have escaped many of the intended blows, but not all of them, and our forebears often feared that worse might yet befall them. 
The Colonial town was utterly vulnerable to attack by sea. Its citizenry worried about being bombarded by warships of the contending European empires seeking to seize its harbor and hinterland. Had not the English captured the Dutch village in 1664 simply by pointing ships' cannons at the wooden houses? 
In 1776, when the city and country rebelled, the English invaded New York in history's largest amphibious landing to that point. That led to the destruction of a large part of the town, the flight of almost all its inhabitants and its further devastation by occupying British troops.
The postwar city rebounded miraculously. But the memory lived on to spur a mammoth outpouring of citizen volunteers to strengthen the city's defenses against the British during the 1812 war, though in the end it was Washington that was attacked and sacked. 
During the 19th century there were few external threats of consequence. Confederate sappers did infiltrate the city in 1864 from Canada. They planted bombs in the big hotels and theaters, hoping to incinerate the entire town, but the fires were contained and the worst averted. Far greater damage was wrought during the 1800's by our own violent internal divisions, most horrifically the great draft riots of 1863. 
There were, however, ill wishers aplenty outside the city. As New York had developed into the nation's financial capital, many in the South and West came to deeply resent what they depicted as their colonial subordination to Wall Street. Others detested the immigrants piling into Gotham's slums. 
The Charleston Courier roared that the headquarters of "merchants and Mammon-worshippers" should "be blotted from the list of cities." And in 1860 a Southerner wrote a fantasy novel that imagined Gotham destroyed after an urban Armageddon that pitted working-class Irish against the city's business classes (an eerie prefiguring of the draft riots to come).
In the late 19th century, Western and Southern populist opponents of the "Money Power" in New York drew on its tradition of violent internal clashes to pen apocalyptic fantasies describing a city consumed by orgies of violence. One envisioned war between an "Oligarchy" of capitalists and a proletarian "Brotherhood of Destruction," culminating in a quarter-million corpses being stacked in Union Square. 
Inside the city, there were fears that anarchists, a handful of whom had made windy pronouncements about dynamiting the city's elite, might yet blow the place up. There were virtually no such incidents until a hellish explosion ripped Wall Street in 1920 (with the House of Morgan and the Stock Exchange the likely targets, though no perpetrators were identified).
 WITH World War I, there were again real foreign foes to contend with, and old anxieties about vulnerability to assault from the sea (and now the air) returned with a vengeance. Again, New York -- a financial and industrial powerhouse -- seemed the chief target. Propagandists concocted lurid posters, one of which depicted the city under air attack, with Lower Manhattan in flames, while a U-boat lurked near the ruins of the Statue of Liberty, its severed head half submerged.
But apart from a spectacular blowup of a munitions dump on a New Jersey wharf that shook skyscrapers and shattered glass in Times Square, defenses proved more than adequate. Similarly in World War II, a reported (but false) sighting of enemy bombers two days after Pearl Harbor engendered panic, and German submarines prowling the coastline kept tensions high (the enemy, said F.D.R. in 1942, could "come in and shell New York tomorrow night, under certain conditions"). The city again seemed a logical target, as it played a crucial role in convoying soldiers and supplies to Europe. In the end, however, coordinated air and sea patrols kep the city inviolate.
The Cold War and the arrival of nuclear weapons touched off a new round of fears, as 1940's writers and artists repeatedly hypothesized an atomic bomb being dropped on Manhattan. In 1945 Reader's Digest noted it was "now in the power of the atom-smashers to blot out New York with a single bomb. Such a bomb can burn up in an instant every creature, can fuse the steel buildings and smash the concrete into flying shrapnel." 
By 1947 the magazine contemplated the added devastation of radioactive fallout. Its article "Mist of Death Over New York" imagined a nuclear explosion in the harbor that, within six weeks, would leave 389,101 New Yorkers dead or missing. Again, the presumption was that the Russians would attack New York on both symbolic and strategic grounds.
In recent decades, some opponents of the expanding global cultural and economic order of which New York and Washington were seen as headquarters, turned to terror. The resulting mayhem seldom touched New York's shores -- the first World Trade Center attack was a notable exception -- but fantasies about urban destruction exploded in popular culture. The popularity of cinematic depictions of overseas (or alien) predators wreaking havoc on New York and Washington, with the World Trade Center and Statue of Liberty as attendant casualties, was perhaps also fueled by antagonism to Big Government and Big Corporations.
Now these fantasies have been horribly realized -- one reason that we've repeatedly heard stunned witnesses exclaiming the devastation seemed "unreal" or "just like a movie." This is not to say that terrorists are copycats and that Hollywood's to blame, but rather that cultural producers, like almost everyone else, tend to assume that New York and Washington are the likeliest targets. One consequence of reality having caught up to fiction might be a new reluctance to spin such fantasies -- a reissue of "Independence Day" was just postponed -- though it's equally likely that someone is already hard at work on a mini-series. 
More hopefully, our shattered sense of invulnerability will be replaced by a sober appreciation of the fact that, even as we mourn our casualties, take prudent precautions to prevent similar attacks, help track down and punish those responsible, and reconstruct our city, our generation of New Yorkers, like those that preceded ours, has witnessed and survived a cataclysm even worse than our imaginations had been able to conceive.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Robert Luckey Jr./Greenwich Time, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RIOTS (60%); VOLUNTEERS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) WALLACE, MIKE (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



421 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: THE FRAGILE CITY; 
'Close-Up Death Ought to Change a City'

BYLINE:  By BARBARA GARSON; Barbara Garson is the author, most recently, of "Money Makes the World Go Around: One Investor Tracks Her Cash Through the Global Economy From Brooklyn to Bangkok and Back."

 BODY:
MY husband phoned to say that an airplane had flown into the World Trade Center. He called a while later about a second plane. "All right, I'll go look," I said. 
 From my back door on the West Side Highway, you'd normally see the two towers clearly. I've always hated them. 
 In fact, as soon as Governor Rockefeller erected them, I announced a plan to unfurl an 80-story banner down each tower labeling them "David and Nelson: Two Big Phalli." (That's not exactly the word I used.) But I never did anything about it, and the two arrogant towers remained standing. 
There was only one, however, by the time I got outside on Tuesday morning. The neighbors were passing around binoculars and helping one another distinguish the black hole from the black smoke.
Then the second tower disappeared. For a moment, someone thought she could smell something acrid. But nothing was blowing as far north as Bethune Street. From where we stood, there was a luminous white cloud where the tower had been. It was beautiful. 
My neighbor Vera gasped, remembering the surrounding buildings. "My grandson goes to Stuyvesant." That was my first visceral sense of real people in those buildings. 
By then people from the World Financial Center were walking up West Street. They'd been evacuated immediately, they told us, and so had everyone at Stuyvesant High School. 
Reassured about her grandson, Vera, a lifelong pacifist, could refocus her anxiety from her grandchild to mankind.
"We're hopeless," she said. "The pacifists will explain that Israel should have done this or that in 1947; England should have done that or this in 1917; yeah, and if they all acted correctly at the Garden of Eden. But if we got to do the whole of history over, we'd make other mistakes. The killing will go on."
My husband called back about dangerous black smoke.
"It's gorgeous out," I said. "Turn off the television."
The next time he was worried about asbestos. It was obvious that I wasn't going to get anything done that day. Besides, I didn't want to miss out on history. So I decided to bike up from the Village to join him on the Upper West Side. 
Traffic in the West Village and Chelsea was just about normal, except that there were more ambulances and, for once, the cars pulled over for them. Midtown traffic was very light. Clumps of people waited patiently outside Penn Station to hear when train service would resume. Office workers stranded outside the subway at Columbus Circle didn't complain. They seemed ready to trade their day-to-day anxieties for a good collective disaster if someone would only give them an assignment. 
As I biked up Eighth Avenue in the autumn sunshine, it annoyed me to think that the world would be watching smoke, rubble and ambulances on CNN. I wish those terrorists could be out here with me to see how beautiful and calm my city is. Twenty blocks from the Trade Center, it's as if you guys didn't exist. 
But that was Tuesday morning before the casualty count started. At that point, the dead seemed to have vanished as magically as the twin towers and as bloodlessly as people in Iraq.
I suppose there will be retaliations, leaving equally unreal people dead in other cities. If I thought that would lead to fewer corpses overall, I guess I'd reluctantly buy it. But I doubt that it will. 
Unfortunately, I can't suggest a more effective or immediately satisfying response. But let's not give completely free rein to machismo. The politicians will go on television saying that America is now stronger, safer, taller and prouder than ever. They'll want a symbol to show our unswerving resolve. 
But so much close-up death ought to change a city somewhat. At least let's not rebuild those same arrogant towers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); AIRLINES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); MISSING PERSONS (68%); TERRORISM (62%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GARSON, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



422 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: The Economics of Diesel Meets the Politics Fuel 

BYLINE:  By PHIL PATTON 

 BODY:
FOR years, the appeal of diesel-powered cars, primarily their efficiency and durability, was offset by emissions that were generally above those of gasoline autos.
 While low in carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide, diesels produce more nitrous oxide and particulates -- the sooty stuff -- than similar-size gasoline engines. The soot is largely caused by sulfur in the fuel. 
 European law limits the amount of sulfur in diesel. Engines like the Lupo's TDI are built to take advantage of that. Indeed, a modern engine like the Lupo's requires low-sulfur fuel to prevent the fuel injectors from becoming clogged.
A new set of stricter diesel standards, known as Euro 4, goes into effect in Europe in 2005, but Volkswagen's TDI already meets them. VW is working on an even cleaner and more efficient diesel, as well as a particle filter that, unlike current ones, does not have to be regularly changed. Mercedes, BMW and other European manufacturers are also improving diesels, and some industry experts predict diesel cars may account for half Europe's sales by 2010.
In February, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Christine Todd Whitman, endorsed a regulation put in place in the waning days of the Clinton administration that would limit sulfur to 10 parts per million, a tenfold reduction, in most diesel fuel by 2006. Under the existing timetable, 80 percent of all fuel sold will be required to meet the standard by 2006, and the rest by 2010.
The petroleum industry is not happy with the rules, and car makers are split. Some welcome cleaner fuel that would enable them to sell more diesel engines, while others resist installing the new equipment necessary to meet the higher standards.
This includes filters for particulates and catalytic converters to remove nitrous oxide. The National Petrochemical and Refiners Association challenged the rule in court, arguing that it would burden consumers with large price increases and create shortages.
The American Petroleum Institute and the American Trucking Association have both sought delays or revisions. On Aug. 9, the E.P.A. decided to create a panel of industry experts to consider delaying the planned changes. PHIL PATTON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); NITROGEN OXIDES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CARBON MONOXIDE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) AUTOMOBILES; DIESEL POWER 

PERSON: PATTON, PHIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



423 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: VIEW; 
An Insignificant Spectator

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
HUNDREDS of people stood in front of my Greenwich Village apartment house on Tuesday morning, staring downtown as about a mile away the World Trade Center towers burned and disappeared. The view down the avenue was clear; it has always been a pleasant feature of the neighborhood. And the weather was glorious, if you recall.
 There was something about being this precise distance from the awfulness -- close enough to hear the explosion of the second plane but far enough away not to feel the heat or dodge falling debris -- that felt taunting. In retrospect I summoned an image: an enormous, frightening silhouette of a man, blocking out the sun. "Watch this," it stage whispers. 
 And we did.
The reaction on our street could fairly be described as perplexity, which was, as I look back, the seed of the punishing irrelevance that has been plaguing me since then. No one knew what to do or which way to move. There was something both compelling and repellent about the incredible event taking place in front of our eyes. I mean that literally; it drew you toward it, it pushed you away. You wanted to race downtown at top speed to bear witness; you wanted to turn your back, to flee.
Many people were simply held in their tracks, the understanding kicking in that just going to work as usual, just going to the store for the breakfast milk, would be deeply inappropriate. Throughout the morning I kept going upstairs and coming back down, as if to verify in real air and space the pictures I was seeing on television -- and vice versa.
I've thought a lot about my fellow gawkers on Mercer Street since then, wondered for how many of them the grotesqueries of the week got closer, more personal, and how many have merely shared my experience of bystanderhood. I heard one network newscaster say that "just about everyone I know has some connection to someone who was involved in this attack," but the reality is
that most of us don't. We have been moved to suffer in sympathy. Which, as it turns out, holds a distinct agony of its own. Just about everyone I know felt worse as the week went on.
One of the obvious lessons of terrorism is that it renders people helpless. Americans have understood this, even though up to now we have largely been spared the emotional erosion of living in constant insecurity. Our immunity on that score is up.
But the persistent and deepening throb of pain, I think, is caused by something beyond helplessness. I'll speak solely for myself here, but I've never felt smaller or more insignificant than I have this week and partly this is a terrible irony because I'm among the lucky. As far as I know, I've lost no one close to me. I've lost no property. Whatever images there are to haunt me from the tragedy are the ones that haunt millions who watch television and read the newspaper. Even my personal experience of the calamity is one I shared with a crowd of neighbors.
I have, in other words, no private terror or individuated anguish, the emotional currency of the moment. And though this will sound selfish or chilly or less than magnanimous, I resent having no purchase on sympathy. But I understand. There's only so much sympathy to go around; we're all doing triage with our available feelings.
At the same time, unless you are in certain professions, it turns out there is almost nothing to be done to lend a hand, aside from donating blood (not so easy to do in the chaotic aftermath or, stunningly, so necessary) or money. The business of reassuring out-of-town friends and loved ones of one's own safety doesn't take much time or energy. Compulsively watching television does.
The inability to do much more than keep oneself informed is a terrible frustration. And it is cruelly isolating, at least to me, because of the extraordinary urge I have to be counted among my communities -- of New Yorkers, of Americans, and of my fellow men and women. But who knows how to do this right now? The way I'm generally satisfied to announce my presence in the world is through what I do every day.
Whether this is healthy or admirable is another argument, but I won't deny that my profession commands an enormous role in my idea of myself, and as a theater critic I didn't feel any more necessary after curtains went up in New York on Thursday than I did while theaters were dark. How could I find meaning in such frivolousness? I'm thankful to the firefighters, police officers, rescue workers, doctors and others, including my fellow journalists, for responding with such ardor to this catastrophe, but I'm envious of them as well.
I know I'm not alone in this. The fruitlessness of pursuing one's daily life was shared by a spectrum of people who renounced their chosen practices. Professional athletes were among those who publicly expressed disdain for doing what they do, and the shopkeepers in my neighborhood expressed the same thing by closing their shops. Indeed, commerce has rarely seemed so crass; the young man who took advantage of the occasion to peddle American flag bandannas on lower Fifth Avenue on Thursday drew far more glares of disdain than customers, at least while I was watching.
I commend Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's declaration that New Yorkers should return to their normal lives, go to restaurants and stores, resume their jobs, in order to keep the economy and the spirit of the city afloat and to send a message of our enduring hardiness to those who would destroy us.
But part of me wants to respond, respectfully: That's easy for you to say. You have a pertinent life to lead.
What about those of us who feel as if we've been robbed of ourselves, who've had no choice but to wait until this all subsides and the world returns to a semblance of something we recognize, something that allows us to go on with our lives without dismissing them? 
It seems to me that what terrorists stole from even the most fortunate of New Yorkers on Tuesday may not have been our lives but fragments of them -- whole unrecoverable days, an unspecified number of them in which we simply believe we don't matter. 
What can we do in the meantime to pretend otherwise? Frankly, writing this essay was all I could think of.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nigel Holmes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MISSING PERSONS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); AIRLINES (71%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



424 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1129 words

PERSON: Charles A. James 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
In Antitrust, Stress on Restraint

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
SITTING on the coffee table in his spacious office at the Justice Department, next to a stack of newspapers, are "The Art of War" and "Who Moved My Cheese?" -- two books that Charles A. James says provide vital insights for his job as the nation's top antitrust enforcer.
 "The lesson of 'The Art of War' is that a dispassionate solution and all tactical decisions flow from a realistic assessment of where you are, and if you don't do that initial assessment right, you'll make mistakes," Mr. James said last Monday, referring to the book by the ancient military strategist Sun Tzu. "And the lesson of 'Who Moved My Cheese?' is that you have to be open to change in all of your planning because life is constantly changing." 
 They are lessons of significance for Mr. James, particularly as he tries to resolve the most important antitrust case of a generation, the government's legal assault on the monopolistic practices of Microsoft.
Before the disasters in New York and Washington last week, the business world had turned its eyes to Mr. James. On Sept. 6, he had dropped the government's effort to break up Microsoft and abandoned a central antitrust claim -- that the company had violated the Sherman Act by integrating its Internet Explorer browser with its Windows operating system.
After prosecutors and the company's lawyers were unable to meet last week because of the moratorium on air travel, the judge gave them a brief extension and ordered them to file a report by Tuesday outlining how to proceed with the remaining aspects of the case. A hearing is set for Friday.
Though some senior aides to President Bush have never liked the breakup order, or the idea of keeping those products from being linked, the prevailing view among lawyers following the case was that the decision was a blend of ideology and pragmatism -- an assessment, in light of the appeals court opinion, that it was not unreasonable to take steps to expedite proceedings.
"In some senses it may not really matter why the government is doing this," said John Shepard Wiley Jr., a law professor at the University of California at Los Angeles who uses the lawsuit as a case study in his antitrust classes. "The case will certainly be more streamlined" without those two issues, he added.
Robert Pitofsky, chairman of the Federal Trade Commission in the Clinton administration, said the decision to drop the breakup request did not particularly trouble him.
"Conduct remedies, properly enforced, can be quite tough," he said, although he added that he might have gone a different route on the "tying claim" -- that Microsoft had improperly integrated its browser with the operating system.
"Dropping the tying claim may make it difficult to settle this case with a first-rate order," he said. "The threat is removed. Sure, the Court of Appeals made it tougher to make the tying case. But it was not impossible."
As soon it was made, Mr. James's move prompted some executives to consider large corporate deals that in a different regulatory climate would be unthinkable, like a possible bid by AOL Time Warner for AT&T's cable operations, which became public last Monday.
According to an aide, Mr. James, a soft-spoken 47-year-old lawyer, cringes at news articles framing the legal battle that began in the Clinton administration as a struggle between himself and Bill Gates. Even as Mr. James prepares for the next round of litigation, it is clear from the tone of his remarks, and those of his aides, that he would prefer settlement to battle.
Barely three months in office as the assistant attorney general in charge of the antitrust division, Mr. James, by virtue of the issues before him, has risen quickly to become a significant figure at the Justice Department. In the Microsoft case, a federal appeals court issued what now stands as the central opinion in the lawsuit a mere two weeks after his confirmation by the Senate. 
A few weeks after that, Mr. James's counterparts in Europe broke sharply with him and blocked the proposed $45 billion acquisition of Honeywell International by General Electric. The Justice Department, which had already approved the deal, reacted angrily to the move. But it was characteristic of Mr. James to issue a statement that, while disagreeing with the Europeans, was significantly more measured than those of other administration officials.
"For years, U.S. and E.U. competition authorities have enjoyed close and cooperative relations," he said. "In fact, there were extensive consultations in this matter throughout the entire process. This matter points to the continuing need for consultation to move toward greater policy convergence."
Other signs have emerged that Mr. James wants to ratchet down the often contentious relationship between prosecutors and their counterparts in the private sector. In a speech before the American Bar Association last month, Mr. James proposed streamlining the procedures for reviewing corporate mergers, giving more authority to line prosecutors, and reducing the often inevitable friction between the government and corporations.
Mr. James said it would be wrong to conclude that the new process of identifying legal issues sooner suggests that the government will ease its scrutiny of mergers. "This is not a burden-reduction effort for parties proposing mergers, but done properly it will reduce the burden," he said last week. "It is not an effort to reduce time for the sake of reducing time, but done properly it will reduce the time."
Mr. James, a native of Newark, said his decision to embark on an antitrust career was largely fortuitous. As a law student at George Washington University, he got a job at a small law firm that represented plaintiffs in antitrust cases. That ultimately led him to work as a junior lawyer at the F.T.C., where he befriended a colleague, Timothy J. Muris, now the agency's chairman. The two men share a concern that the previous administration may have been too aggressive in pursuing some kinds of monopoly investigations and cases challenging "vertical" mergers, like that of a producer and a distributor.
"My conservative view of economic issues leads me to have faith in market forces and to be circumspect about the extent to which government interacts with market forces," he said. 
Although his approach to antitrust is low-key, Mr. James is not wanting in the discipline department. When he found himself significantly overweight a few years ago, he embarked on a rigorous body-building regimen, losing 125 pounds. He still keeps a rigorous schedule, getting up by 4:45 a.m. so he can go to a gym.
"It's a passion," he said. "To show you the yin and yang of it, I should mention that I also love to cook. I am hopeful when I hang up my antitrust spurs I will open a restaurant."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles A. James is facing the task of resolving the government's case against Microsoft. (Stacey Cramp/Legal Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (95%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); MONOPOLIZATION (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); CASE STUDIES (67%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US) 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEORGE W BUSH (58%) JAMES, CHARLES A; LABATON, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Law 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



425 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2127 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Sudden Sense of Insecurity at Many Companies

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON; Additional reporting for this story was done by Julian E. Barnes, Claudia H. Deutsch, Chris Gaither, Danny Hakim, Constance L. Hays, Richard A. Oppel Jr., Andrew Pollack and Matt Richtel.

 BODY:
AT Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif., inspectors have begun checking backpacks for weapons, a procedure instituted only once before, during the Persian Gulf war. At the headquarters of Intel in Santa Clara last week, the front gates to the company's 12-building campus were locked, accessible only by employees with badges. And at Janus Capital in Denver, a mutual fund company that manages $200 billion in investments, executives are discussing new air-travel policies. 
 When hijackers toppled the World Trade Center towers on Tuesday they reshaped New York's financial landscape. But the impact is being felt much farther than that as companies around the country rush to bolster their security systems in the wake of the terrorist attacks. Thousands of executives accustomed to freewheeling travel, loose record-keeping and open access to workspaces are finding their work lives changing. 
 Employee identification badges are being scrutinized with new zeal. At the parking garage at Xerox, which has offices in Rochester's tallest building, at 29 stories, employees are grilled by security guards. At the TransAmerica pyramid in the heart of downtown San Francisco, itself a landmark as recognizable as the twin towers, there is only one entrance in use, and workers have to show ID to enter. Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto, Calif., has also reined in the travel schedules of its employees. 
But many industry analysts say this is only the beginning of a renewed focus on security as companies grapple with their own vulnerability. Paul Saffo, a veteran Silicon Valley technology analyst who works with numerous local companies there, said he expected to see more changes in security measures as businesses realize that they are now targets of terrorism.
"If this is a war, it's businesses that are on the front line," Mr. Saffo said, describing the attack on the World Trade Center as a wake-up call. "It's dawning on businesses that they have to take prudent steps."
Kenneth Katzman, a scholar and senior analyst in Middle Eastern affairs at the Congressional Research Service in Washington, agreed. 
"Terrorists are going after things where the U.S. is dominant," he said. "I've long told audiences I've spoken to that companies like Microsoft are a target. Terrorists are looking for something that is distinctive and will get a lot of press." 
Why so much attention on security now? In the 1970's, corporate executives were concerned about a spate of high-profile kidnappings and hijackings, Mr. Katzman said. But as the cold war ended, workers prospered and the United States economy expanded. Corporations then perceived competing businesses to be their enemies, not terrorists or Communists. Now, the focus is abruptly shifting. 
The most immediate concern on employers' minds, it seems, is whether and when they will allow employees to travel by air. And with good reason. On Thursday, two days after the World Trade Center attack, a man who tried to use a false pilot's identification to get past security checkpoints was arrested at Kennedy International Airport. The New York City area's three airports were then closed and other men were detained.
Almost every major corporation suspended corporate travel last week or made it discretionary. Nova Chemicals, a Canadian company whose United States headquarters are in Pittsburgh, instituted a two-day moratorium on flying. 
On Tuesday, Hewlett-Packard asked its workers in San Francisco and Los Angeles, where two of the hijacked planes were destined, to stay home. And in a memo distributed to employees, Carleton S. Fiorina, Hewlett-Packard's chairwoman and chief executive, instructed her workers to restrict business travel in all regions of the world to "customer-critical situations," such as when Hewlett-Packard's services are needed to keep a customer's computer systems running.
For many in the financial world, including investment bankers, mutual fund managers and analysts, flights to visit other companies are as routine as an Upper West Side commuter hopping on the subway to get downtown. Janus Capital, a unit of Stilwell Financial of Kansas City, Mo., takes pride in having its team of money managers and analysts visit every company Janus considers investing in both here and abroad.
But on Tuesday, Janus scrambled to account for its employees, who were spread all over the world, said Jane Ingalls, a Janus spokeswoman. Janus executives are now discussing what the company's travel policy should be in the future. They agree that it will be more risky and more cumbersome.
"We all have a sense that airline security is going to change tremendously," Ms. Ingalls said. "Gone are the days when you went up to the counter and got those two questions you already knew."
Some companies may wind up increasing their use of private jets. Gary Rieschel, an executive at Softbank Venture Capital, a unit of the Japanese company Softbank that is based in Mountain View, Calif., said that many of the investment executives he knows in Silicon Valley who travel often are not talking about investing in new security systems, but whether to buy a share in a corporate jet.
One reason is that new airport security measures may make commercial flights too time-consuming. But safety is an even greater concern. Mr. Rieschel says he often gets phone calls from family members worried about his safety when he travels. "I'm used to that," he said, but his family is not so sanguine.
So far, corporate America's approach to security is as varied as the companies themselves. For example, railroad operators have increased security in part because transportation is a national concern. 
"We've added more security officers and beefed up the scope of what they do," said Richard Russack, a vice president at Burlington Northern Santa Fe, in Fort Worth, which has 33,500 miles of track in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. "We're asking people to be very sensitive to trespassers," he said.
Boeing, the second-largest contractor for the Defense Department, has operated under a heightened level of security since the terrorist attacks. Bob Jorgensen, a spokesman for the company's crisis management team, said that Boeing's security forces erected barricades on every road leading to administrative buildings, which, unlike Boeing factories, are not surrounded by perimeter fences and alarms. 
Mr. Jorgensen also said Boeing, which opened its new headquarters in Chicago this month, was reminding workers of existing company policies, such as never wearing clothing or carrying luggage identifying themselves as Boeing employees when traveling on international flights.
The Principal Financial Group, one of the nation's leading 401(k) management companies with $113 billion under management, increased security around its corporate headquarters in Des Moines on Tuesday. The company banned curbside parking around its offices, limited access to building loading docks, posted extra security inside the building and conducted extra patrols around its buildings.
"I wouldn't say its permanent, but I can't tell you when it will end," Rhonda Clark-Leyda, a spokeswoman, said.
But at Cisco Systems, the largest maker of computer networking equipment, people who visited its facilities last week said it did not appear that any special measures were being taken. Steve Langdon, a spokesman for the company that is based in San Jose, Calif., declined to discuss the issue, stating that "information about our security is not something we share publicly."
And on Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, Silicon Valley's equivalent of Wall Street, where many of the most prominent venture capital firms that fueled the technology boom reside, few precautions have been taken. Security guards are practically nonexistent. 
Even at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's offices there, visitors said they have seen no increased security, even though that firm had its brokerage offices in 2 World Trade Center. 
"No one has really had a chance to talk about it," said Vinod Khosla, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. "The other thing is you don't want terrorists to disrupt your life."
Along with personal safety issues, corporations have to worry about protecting the integrity of their operations. But many companies already addressed that issue in their preparations for the millennium, when many feared that power failures and computer malfunctions would bring business to a standstill, ground airlines and freeze automated teller machines. 
BANKS, mutual fund companies and investment firms have already invested billions of dollars in new technology and backup systems in the event of any natural disaster.
The Vanguard Group, the nation's second-largest manager of mutual funds, has backup in three states for its records and telephone operators. The company, based in Malvern, Pa., near Philadelphia, also has a site in another part of the Philadelphia area that functions as a backup for account processing and shareholder record-keeping. 
"We're ready to go in an unfortunate situation," said John Demming, a Vanguard spokesman.
Fiduciary Trust, a subsidiary of Franklin Resources, which manages money for wealthy clients, had its headquarters at 2 World Trade Center, and executives there say they remain deeply concerned about the employees who are still missing. But Anne M. Tatlock, Fiduciary's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement that the company had extensive backup systems in place and was confident it would be up and running when the stock market reopens. Franklin Resources is based in San Mateo, Calif.
"Senior members of our management team were at our disaster-recovery site in New Jersey within an hour of the tragedy and efforts were immediately taken to restore our business capability," Ms. Tatlock said. "We have recovered our complete portfolio accounting system and we successfully backed up all of our data through the close of trading on Monday night. We will be fully operational when U.S. equity markets reopen on Monday."
Other companies have taken steps to make sure their products can get to customers in the event of a major disaster. 
Amgen Inc., the nation's largest biotechnology company, began shipping its drugs by truck last week, following a plan developed in 1999 as part of its millennium strategy. "We can get to most of our customers in 24 hours without getting into the air," said Jeff Richardson, a spokesman for Amgen, which sells, among other things, a drug to treat anemia. 
IF anyone understands the security decisions American companies are facing, it is Alan Boeckmann, president of Fluor in Aliso Viejo, Calif. Fluor, one of the country's largest engineering and construction companies, employs 47,000 workers in 35 offices worldwide.
"We deal with a lot of far-flung places with shaky politics," Mr. Boeckmann said. "We react quickly to issues so we can keep control of the situation." In 1999, for instance, he said, Fluor employees working on an $800 million project in Indonesia were forced to leave the country three times because of civil unrest.
Mr. Boeckmann warned that companies could create security risks if they drew too much attention to themselves. 
"Sometimes you can be too high-profile," he said. After Fluor had a bomb scare in one of its foreign offices, the company decided to remove its name from the building.
"In our case and the case of others, the concern will be visibility," Mr. Boeckmann said, a lesson companies are already learning. Bain & Company, a consulting firm based in Boston, closed its offices in New York City and Washington on Tuesday, and also closed operations in any building considered a national landmark, including the Sears Tower in Chicago.
Many corporations are loath to discuss any security measures they have put in place. "For security purposes, we can't talk about security," said Lisa Gallegos, a spokeswoman at Franklin Resources, which manages $266 billion in assets. 
"Even if I knew I would not tell you," said Ray O'Rourke, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, one of the largest tenants at the World Trade Center, when asked if the company had instituted tighter security at its offices around the world. 
In fact, there is a good chance that companies are doing a great deal more about increasing security than they are willing to let on. Corporate security chiefs at Eastman Kodak, the photography giant in Rochester, are not pretending that it is business as usual in the aftermath of the events of Tuesday. But they have little intention of publicizing the precautions they are taking.
"Our security people are totally disinclined to provide any detail on what we are doing here," Gerard Meuchner, a Kodak spokesman, said. "The way they see it, if you want to keep a safe locked, you don't give out the combination."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Jersey City's financial district, security teams check ID badges in the lobby of the building that Lehman Brothers is using after New York offices were destroyed. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); COLD WAR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); AIRLINES (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (84%); INTEL CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



426 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Airlines' Bad Year Is Suddenly Looking Much, Much Worse

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
EVEN before the mass death and destruction caused by the multiple hijackings last week, the American commercial airline industry had been struggling through an extraordinarily rough year. But those financial travails may look mild compared with what comes after the worst terrorist attack in the nation's history.
 The government's unprecedented two-day grounding of all commercial flights, draconian new security rules and the hesitance of a frightened public could add billions of dollars in losses to what was shaping up as the worst year for United States airlines since the downturn after the Persian Gulf war of 1991. That could result in curtailed schedules, smaller fleets and widespread layoffs. On Friday, Congress was considering a $15 billion bailout of the industry. 
 The pressure on airlines became clear one day after the attack -- they were not bringing in any revenue but were spending money to maintain grounded planes, pay flight crews and accommodate stranded passengers. Midway Airlines, one of the weakest carriers, announced that it was going out of business. Speculation increased that US Airways would not survive. And Standard & Poor's, the debt rating agency, said it might lower the credit ratings of all airlines in the United States, which could raise borrowing costs for them. 
The attack on Tuesday by suicide terrorists who slammed commandeered jetliners from American Airlines and United Airlines into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon "will turn a bad year into a very, very bad year," said Raymond E. Neidl, the airline analyst at ABN Amro Securities.
Before the attack, analysts who follow the industry had been expecting major United States airlines to lose $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion for 2001 because of the rapidly slowing economy, fewer passengers and higher labor costs. Earlier this month American's parent, AMR, which lost $507 million in the second quarter, said it expected significant losses in the third and fourth quarters.
Now there are fears that losses by the industry will approach or even exceed the $4.8 billion it lost in 1992, when it suffered from a recession and terrorism fears because of the gulf war.
"This will be the worst year we've ever had," said Darryl Jenkins, director of the Aviation Institute at George Washington University in Washington.
Mr. Jenkins and Mr. Neidl, who was stranded last week in Chile after his flight home was canceled, said it was too early to precisely forecast the losses. "Nobody really knows what will happen with the industry, how far off we are going to be because of this unprecedented situation," Mr. Neidl said. 
Of course, the other shoe has not yet dropped. If the United States retaliates with a military strike abroad, as is widely expected, there could be a collapse in international air travel, which had been a growth area in the airline industry.
Kevin C. Murphy, who follows the industry for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said each airline's current supply of cash would be crucial in coming weeks and months, as the industry spends more than it receives just to induce people to fly with fare discounts and expensive new security procedures.
"At times like these, you sort of forget about the income statement," Mr. Murphy said.
The major airline companies -- AMR; Delta Air Lines; UAL, the parent of United; Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines -- have about $1 billion each in cash and marketable securities, Mr. Murphy said, which can tide them over for awhile. 
But smaller carriers have less on hand. And some airline executives and analysts are predicting that the federal government will have to give the airline industry an emergency infusion of cash. Gordon M. Bethune, chief executive of Continental, warned Friday that without such aid, "we are all going to be bankrupt before the end of the year."
John Heimlich, director of economic research for the Air Transport Association, a trade group based in Washington that represents the domestic industry, estimated that United States airlines had only about $10 billion in cash on hand before the terrorist attacks, and the industry has been incurring costs of about $350 million a day. "Something's going to have to be done," he said. "Obviously, we're going to need a package."
It is the unexpected that can hurt the industry the most. The closure of the nation's air lanes after the terrorist attacks, curtailing flights around the world, caused immediate and unplanned declines in revenue. 
The International Air Transport Association, a trade group based in Geneva, said the world's airlines incurred expenses and lost sales last week that could reach $10 billion.
The domestic airline industry is also facing a new and unexpected expense: drastically strengthened security. Under Federal Aviation Administration regulations announced last week, airlines and airports will have to search passengers far more aggressively to confiscate cutting instruments of any size -- even plastic knives.
How much of that expense can be passed along to passengers remains unclear, especially if the airlines find that they must also lower fares to revive their business.
Under the new federal rules, the airlines are prohibited, at least temporarily, from carrying cargo or mail. Freight has been a small but not insignificant business for major passenger airlines. Michael V. Iswalt, an associate economist at Economy.com, a research group in West Chester, Pa., said it represented 7 percent of revenue at Northwest, 4.5 percent at UAL, 4 percent at AMR and 3 percent at Delta.
Airlines, of course, have long learned to cope with some unanticipated events that temporarily reduce revenue, as when severe weather shuts airports or when there is skittishness among customers after a crash. Kevin Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, a research group based in Radnor, Pa., said it was normal for an airline's business to fall significantly for 10 to 14 days after an accident. 
This time, he said, "I think it's going to be a couple of months" before many passengers feel comfortable again.
Lingering horror is an important reason. In most cases, the public never sees a plane crash, only the shattered remains. But vivid color video and photographs of jetliners striking the World Trade Center have been viewed by people worldwide -- again and again.
AIRLINE officials say they know they have a difficult task. To assure passengers, "we must be at the top of our game," said Ed Stewart, a spokesman for Southwest Airlines, based in Dallas.
"Right now, the focus is on getting back to a sense of normalcy, to showing that we are stronger than this," he said, referring to the terrorist attack.
Mr. Stewart said Southwest, among the few American airlines that analysts expect to be profitable for 2001, is prepared for the burden of added security.
"We live in a world that is not Disneyland," he said.
One of the biggest unknowns is how many business travelers, the airline industry's most profitable customers, will soon be flying again. Having already reduced their travel because of the weak economy, they are widely expected to cut back further because of terrorism fears.
In a survey of 63 major corporations released in June, 86 percent told the Business Travel Coalition that they had sought to reduce the cost of business travel this year. Now airlines could also have trouble luring executives back to their jets because corporations do not want to gamble on even the slightest security problem, said William Curtis, chief executive of CurtCo Robb Media, publisher of The Robb Report, a magazine aimed at an upscale leisure audience.
"The risk factor has certainly changed," Mr. Curtis said, "not just the risk but the reality."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Strengthened security measures at airports could further hurt the airlines' bottom lines. At Minneapolis-St. Paul, an officer used a hand-held metal detector. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HIJACKING (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); HISTORY (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); ABO (ASX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHILE (79%); GULF STATES (57%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



427 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2685 words

HEADLINE: A Body Blow to the Economy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT and LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center towers and damaged the Pentagon brought the American economy to an unprecedented halt and made a recession far more likely than before.
 Six days ago, the economy seemed to be at best stagnant. Now, as a result of last week alone, many experts believe that it is already contracting, perhaps by as much as an annual rate of 1 percent. 
 The immense loss of output -- from airline travel, Wall Street brokerage fees and retail sales -- will reduce corporate profits that were shrinking rapidly. That, in turn, could lead to a fresh surge in layoffs, economists said. Even as Wall Street prepares to reopen, the terrorist attacks and the possibility of reprisals are likely to aggravate the unwinding of consumer confidence that was already under way. 
In hopes of preventing the situation from worsening, the Bush administration and Congress suspended all talk about preserving the Social Security surplus and quickly enacted a $40 billion spending bill -- half for battling terrorists, half for helping their victims. More will come later, policy makers said. The Federal Reserve is also prepared to cut interest rates again. 
The government's goal, like that of those rushing to open the stock market, is to restore a semblance of normalcy and keep a staggering economy from turning into something much worse.
What makes it hard to gauge the effect of the attack is a lack of precedent. "We can only speculate, because we've never seen anything like this before," said Carl B. Weinberg, the chief economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm in Valhalla, N.Y.
Still, individual events, even enormously tragic ones, usually have only a temporary effect on major economies. Economists do not question whether the American economy will recover from last week's attacks. The disagreement is over how quickly and strongly it will rebound.
"People like ourselves often tend to exaggerate the economic effects" of individual events, said John Walker, chief economist at Oxford Economics, a consulting firm in the British city for which it is named.
IT would be hard, however, to exaggerate what happened last week. For a while, American business was paralyzed as never before. People simply stopped working.
The executives of Dannon, the food company, who had flown to Florida for their annual conference, cut short their sales meeting and chartered a bus to drive them home to suburban New York. In Cincinnati, the 180 stores of the Kenwood Mall closed. In Seattle, the fishmongers at Pike Place Market stopped their famous ritual of throwing fish through the air to amuse tourists. And across the United States, in the stores that remained open, many people behaved as they did at a Barnes & Noble bookstore in Bend, Ore. -- venturing out not to shop but to talk with one another and to seek comfort.
The skies were empty of commercial airliners, factories canceled shifts, sports leagues postponed games, Broadway theaters went dark, financial markets closed, jaunty advertising diminished and truck drivers pulled off highways to watch the tragedy unfold on television at roadside rest stops. Even on Friday, three days after the terrorist attacks, the worst in the nation's history, America was still in the process of getting back to work.
"As long as there is shock and grief, your mind is somewhere else, and not on buying a new car, or on fixing the bedroom and kitchen, or on anything that requires an effort out of the routine," said Daniel Yankelovich, chairman of DYG, a public opinion polling company. "The question is how long does it take to get over the shock and grief, and if you are not personally touched by this tragedy, that is probably two or three weeks."
Two or three weeks can produce enough damage, economists say, to postpone the rebound that many forecasters had expected by Christmas and to tip an already weak economy into recession. With the unemployment rate already having spiked to 4.9 percent last month, from 4.5 percent, jobs are particularly vulnerable.
Virtually no executives mentioned layoffs last week. On the contrary, companies embraced and comforted their workers, and the downsizing announcements that had proliferated through Monday -- there were a dozen on that day alone -- shrank to only two for the rest of the week, a survey by Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the outplacement firm, showed.
But many managers face an even greater profit crunch now than they did a week ago, forcing thoughts of job losses eventually. "Cutting staff has to be an issue in everyone's head," said Earnest W. Deavenport Jr., chairman of the Eastman Chemical Company, "but it is much too early to speculate on that."
Lawrence Bates, a Cincinnati businessman, is already concerned. He founded and still runs a 15-person operation, now a subsidiary of NetSetGo, that helps corporate clients buy computer systems and use the Internet. His two sales representatives normally bring in two or three new orders a week, a flow that Mr. Bates says he must maintain to keep his staff fully employed. Last week, however, for the first time in years, there was no new business.
"Our sales people are out there, but no one wants to do business," he said. "The conversations are only about what happened in New York. I don't expect this to continue, but without new business we can go for only a week or two longer without layoffs."
As a result of the terrorist attacks, security is proliferating, and that is becoming a drag on efficiency, further slowing the economy. The Toyota assembly plant in Georgetown, Ky., halted production Friday night, idling 8,000 workers, because three tractor-trailers loaded with parts made in Canada were delayed in getting across the border.
"We understand the extra time needed for security checks, but this is starting to have a significant economic impact, and we have complained to our Congressional representatives," said Dennis C. Cuneo, a senior vice president. The border delays reduced production at the Georgetown plant and one in Indiana by 3,500 vehicles last week, or 15 percent of the usual run at Toyota's three American assembly plants.
By the end of last week, many businesses had returned to near normal operations, although shopping remained subdued, retailers said. And several once-optimistic forecasters shifted on Friday to the view that the economy might continue shrinking into the fourth quarter. 
If the gross domestic product, a measure of the value of all the output of goods and services, shrinks in the third quarter, as many economists now expect, it would be the first quarterly decline since 1993. The economy would be in its weakest condition since the recession of 1990-91. Many people define a recession as two consecutive quarters of contraction.
IN the second quarter of this year, the economy grew just 0.2 percent, according to the government's latest estimate. And now the spending that made even this meager growth possible is at risk.
"People stop buying things and that is how you turn a slowdown into a recession," said Janet Yellen, an economist in the Clinton administration and now a professor at the University of California at Berkeley.
Companies themselves are reluctant to push sales. The marathon television news coverage has been nearly devoid of advertisements. Richard Edelman, chief executive of Edelman Public Relations Worldwide, has told his corporate clients since Tuesday to postpone the introduction of new products until late October or early November and to emphasize a public service role or a helping hand in their advertising.
Mr. Edelman was in Omaha when the planes hit the World Trade Center towers, and with flights canceled he drove east the next day. "I was listening to radio ads for products, and they sounded hollow, tinny," he said. "They were not in keeping with the tragic scenes that people were seeing on television."
When those scenes were broadcast across television screens on Tuesday morning -- as the work day was starting on the East Coast and as people were awakening out West -- American business began halting operations in a way unmatched in modern history.
Orin Smith, the chief executive of the Starbucks Corporation, was dressed and ready to leave for work, shortly before 7 a.m. in Seattle, when his phone rang. His brother was on the other end of the line, and he said two airplanes had crashed into the World Trade Center in New York.
By the time Mr. Smith arrived at the Starbucks corporate offices just south of downtown Seattle, a group of the company's executives and the team in charge of security were already meeting. Their first task, he said, was to figure out what had happened to the employees of the stores closest to the towers, including the one in the nearby World Financial Center.
Their efforts were repeated in hundreds of companies around the country. People gathered around televisions to hear what would happen next, and they anxiously worked their phones, trying to find colleagues, friends and relatives who might be in southern Manhattan.
The Starbucks executives' worst fears proved unfounded; all of their employees were located within a couple of hours. But the wider tragedy was far worse than any of them had imagined.
At 10:30 a.m. -- 1:30 p.m. in New York -- Mr. Smith left a voice mail message for all 2,900 stores across North America, telling managers and workers to shut down for the day. "We told them that the threat of physical harm was minimal," Mr. Smith said, "but that we were concerned about the emotional well-being of our people."
"You couldn't return to business as usual," he said.
JAY STEIN, 56, the chairman of Steinmart, a high-end retail chain in the south, had come to New York last week for an annual industry meeting. On Tuesday morning, he was exercising on a treadmill at an apartment his company owns, watching television, when the news broke. He quickly canceled a breakfast meeting, checked on the safety of his employees (30 were in New York with him), invited them over to comfort one another in a sort of living-room wake, and closed the stores in his chain by mid-afternoon.
Sales revenue was already growing much more slowly this year than last, he said, and the terrorist attacks would translate into a sharp decline in the short term. "The question is how short is short term," he said, speculating that once the television coverage receded, many people would return to their old habits.
On Tuesday night, President Bush tried to assure people that, as far as the economy was concerned, the short term would be very short. In a brief address from the Oval Office, he declared that "the American economy will be open for business." By the next morning, in most places across the country, he would be proved correct.
Outside of New York, Starbucks returned to nearly normal operations. In Oregon, the Barnes & Noble in Bend that had closed five hours early on Tuesday reopened. Around the nation, people who had left work early on Tuesday returned Wednesday morning at 9 a.m. But if business had reopened its doors, it was not exactly overrun with customers.
Russ Shelton, the co-owner of a General Motors dealership in Rochester Hills, Mich., had sent his employees home on Tuesday and closed early, having sold only two vehicles. On a normal day, he sells 12 to 20, he said.
By late Wednesday afternoon, the showroom had a fairly typical number of people walking through it. "Probably," Mr. Shelton said, "they just wanted to get away from the television." Again, he sold just two cars.
Many Americans said in interviews that they wanted to reduce their spending until they felt that they knew what the immediate effects of the crisis would be. "You don't want to spend money on things that seem to be less important when safety is a concern," said John Puchalla, an economist at Moody's Investors Service, a credit rating agency in New York. "You're just not sure what will happen next."
Mr. Stein of Steinmart said he expects the terrorist attacks to be especially hard on sales of fashion apparel and expensive home furnishings, not the sort of purchases in keeping with a nation in mourning. "It is clearly not business as normal in our stores," he said.
Even over-the-road truckers were behind schedule, says Dan England, chief executive of C. R. England Inc. in Salt Lake City, which operates 2,500 tractor-trailers, two-thirds of them driver-owned.
"We only accomplish 70 or 80 percent of what we want to do in a day, although that is improving," Mr. England said on Thursday. "The drivers want to stop and watch TV, and you can't blame them."
Economists are reluctant to speculate about when Americans will return to old habits. The country has gone to war before and its citizens have died from terrorist attacks before, they noted, but not since the Civil War has the continental United States been the site of such destruction.
As a result, the effect on the nation's psyche, and thus on its confidence and its economy, could be worse than previous shocks, economists said. But the earlier shocks at least provide a starting point for those trying to gauge the weeks ahead.
In the spring of 1995, after domestic terrorists bombed the federal building in Oklahoma City, a widely followed index of consumer confidence fell 3 percentage points in a month, to 89.8, although it rebounded the next month. The University of Michigan calculates the index from responses to a telephone survey of Americans in which it asks them their current feelings about the economy and their feelings about the next six months. Many analysts consider the survey a reliable predictor of consumer spending, which accounts for roughly two-thirds of the gross domestic product.
After Iraq invaded Kuwait in the summer of 1990, the fall in the index was more pronounced. It dropped 13 percentage points, to 76.4, and continued to fall into the mid-60's as the United States prepared for war. The resulting uncertainty helped to send the economy into its most recent recession.
THE parallels to today are striking. As was the case a decade ago, United States leaders are openly discussing overseas attacks, and some of the world's richest oil regions could be involved. In addition, consumer confidence was already dropping, as a long economic expansion seemed at its end.
Last week, the Michigan index fell to 83.6, its lowest level since 1993, reflecting the results of a survey done before Tuesday's attacks. Less than a year ago, the index stood at 107.6, near its record high.
Given all the new uncertainty, and the billions of dollars of profits and wages lost after the attacks, consumers are almost certain to pull back even further, at least in the near term, economists said. "Following the terrorist attack, we should expect an even weaker outlook," said Richard T. Curtin, the director of Michigan's consumer survey. "The possibility the economy will fall into an outright recession has grown substantially."
Still, economists cautioned, the long-term economic effects of a disaster can often appear to be much greater in its immediate aftermath than they actually become. Over the last 25 years, Britain has been the site of many bombings, mostly carried out by the Irish Republican Army. But even the largest -- in train stations or crowded neighborhoods -- had only the smallest effects on the nation's overall economy.
"The actual impacts on confidence and activity were very short-lived and almost imperceptible," said Mr. Walker of Oxford Economics. "It is surprising how relatively quickly people started to travel on the Underground again and go to train stations again."
But none of the terrorist attacks in Britain killed anything like the number of people that this week's attacks did, Mr. Walker added. And Britain, which had experienced both World War II air attacks and regular terrorist incidents more recently, had less of a sense of peace than the United States did before this week.
That sense of peace and stability, Mr. Puchalla of Moody's said, is one of the reasons Americans have been more willing than people in other countries to spend their income and go into debt.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Consumer confidence, already declining, could be hard hit by war fears. But business at Pat's Market in Lincroft, N.J., picked up after a dip on Tuesday. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The parking lot at the Acme supermarket in Lincroft, N.J., was crowded Friday, as consumers stocked up. But demand was slow at many other businesses, like auto dealerships. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 16) Chart: "Economic ShocksThe economy can easily absorb most blows from disasters or financial crises unless they also cause consumer confidence -- and consequently spending -- to fall sharply. Graph shows quarterly change in gross domestic product, at an annual rate (left scale) and consumer confidence, quarterly (right scale) from 1980-2001. MARCH 1980President Jimmy Carter imposes credit controls. OCTOBER 1987The Dow falls 23 percent in one day. AUGUST 1992Hurricane Andrew costs Florida and Louisiana a combined $25 billion. AUGUST 1990Iraq invades Kuwait. JANUARY 1994Earthquake in Los Angeles costs at least $20 billion. JULY 1997Asian financial crisis begins in Thailand. (Sources: Commerce Department; Survey Research Center, University of Michigan)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); AIRLINES (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (75%); SALES & SELLING (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); APPROPRIATIONS (68%); SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); BOOKSTORES (63%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (52%) LEONHARDT, DAVID; UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (66%); BEND, OR, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%); THAILAND (74%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



428 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Fighting an Elusive Enemy 

BYLINE:  By David M. Kennedy; David M. Kennedy, professor of history at Stanford University, won a Pulitzer Prize in 2000 for "Freedom From Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945."

DATELINE: FRIDAY HARBOR, Wash. 

 BODY:
PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001,
 To be sure, both events inflicted unspeakable carnage and unleashed torrents of fear and outrage, as well as pledges of national solidarity and cries for vengeance without mercy. But there the resemblance ends. Among the more chilling differences, the Manhattan and Pentagon death tolls will almost certainly dwarf the total of 2,403 Americans who perished at Pearl Harbor. 
 What is more, the American naval and air bases in Hawaii on that Sunday morning in 1941 came under attack from a conventional naval force (albeit one employing the wholly new tactic of seaborne air power) deployed by a state whose identity and aspirations were no mystery. The Japanese Navy struck at those military facilities to achieve highly traditional military and diplomatic objectives: neutralization of America's Pacific fleet and perhaps a negotiated political settlement with an isolationist United States that appeared to have little stomach for war, in order to secure Japanese access to Indonesian oil and, ultimately, a free hand to pursue further aggression in Asia. It was a desperate and ultimately doomed gamble, but not an insane one, and it was undertaken for reasons all too familiar in the annals of warfare and politics. 
Even more to the point is the American reaction to Pearl Harbor. The United States responded in just the way the Japanese most feared: it reflexively dismissed the notion of negotiation, insisted on unconditional surrender and proceeded to mobilize with astounding speed, energy and ingenuity. It fought the kind of war for which it was ideally suited, drawing on vast pools of manpower, money and machinery to achieve the production miracle that culminated in the nuclear destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. As the more astute Japanese leaders had anticipated, an eventual American victory was a foregone conclusion if the United States managed to shake off the initial blow and fully energize its behemoth economy for martial purposes.
The contrast with the current scenario is vivid. Now we have attacks on civilian and symbolic targets by highly unconventional forces under the command of still unidentified parties with unknown ambitions. Amid the past week's din of destruction, nothing was more eerie and unsettling than the silence of our attackers and their studied refusal to specify their demands. Whoever our adversaries are, their objectives are not measured in terms of geography, trade or any of the usual markers of political rivalry. They seek not simply to destroy but to demoralize, not to seize territory but to sow chaos, not to conquer so much as to cripple and corrupt. They are targeting not only lives and property but our most fundamental values, including our commitments to personal liberty and to the institutions of an open society. 
These are not the kind of provocations that can be countered simply by mustering the nation's prodigious human, financial and industrial brawn, the winning strategy in World War II. We are instead facing the distressing spectacle of history's richest and most powerful nation rendered the victim of an elusive foe impervious to the military might we have spent decades building. Perhaps because of the lingering mystique of the Pearl Harbor memory, as Ashton B. Carter and former Defense Secretary William J. Perry argued in their trenchant 1999 book "Preventive Defense," we have persisted in building a military force designed to fight the last war while neglecting to cope with the altogether new threat of catastrophic terrorism, a threat now made spectacularly real.
It is often said that Pearl Harbor forever ended American isolationism. And it is certainly true that World War II transformed the United States from a marginal to a dominant player in the international arena, and from a Depression-stricken land into the model of modern affluence -- the very developments that now excite the vicious anti-Americanism that appears to have inspired last week's atrocities. 
But a blow to a military outpost at Pearl Harbor, far removed from the American heartland, is scarcely comparable to strikes against the nation's largest city and its capital. And despite decades of preparation for nuclear war, the fact is that the attack on September 11, 2001, was perpetrated not with the deadly weapons of our old adversaries, but with commandeered commercial airliners -- the proud fruits of a technologically advanced and prosperous society. That choice of weapons, with all their symbolic resonance, underscores the newness of this threat. Against it our conventional arsenal is all but useless, and so are conventional definitions of victory. In World War II we utterly destroyed our adversaries' fighting capacity and forced them to capitulate on terms we dictated. But what weapons should we take up now? Against whom? To what ultimate purpose?
Most sobering of all is the prospect that in our rage and anguish we will compromise our principles of freedom and openness. The battle now joined will be waged on our soil, with all the attendant risk of collateral damage to the delicate fabric of democracy, as rising threats against Arab-Americans and Muslims, and cries for restrictions on civil liberties, already portend.
President Bush has rightly described this week's attacks as assaults on the "foundation of America," although his administration, perhaps for understandable reasons, has thus far seemed more preoccupied with undertaking reprisals, World War II-style, than with shoring up that threatened foundation. Yet as surely as World War II restored confidence and pride to a people worn down by the Great Depression, the attacks of September 11 have the potential to diminish the liberty and individual rights that have been among this society's healthiest attributes.
We must retaliate for the crimes of September 11. But we must also reconfigure our defenses to meet the security challenges of this new era. And we must attend with no less passion and care to preserving those values that have made our society distinctive and for which the World War II generation -- and other generations before it -- fought. More is at stake here than a misappropriated historical analogy. The very character of our society is at risk. Comforting incantations about our resolve and might are no longer sufficient, nor are memories of a time when sheer military and economic muscle could bring our enemies to their knees. As Abraham Lincoln said in another hour of national peril, "as our case is new, so we must think anew, and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves, and then we shall save our country."

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); NAVIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORISM (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY BASES (73%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: KENNEDY, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



429 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Technology Bubble Bursts Twice for a City That Pins Its Hopes on the New Economy 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

DATELINE: KINGSTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The weed-strewn parking lots and abandoned houses became a common sight here soon after I.B.M. left, turning this Hudson River city into just another example of the trail of upheaval left by corporate downsizing in the early 1990's.
 Over decades, I.B.M. had practically turned this part of eastern Ulster County into a company town. So when it closed the offices and factories here that made mainframe computers, the Kingston region lost nearly 8,000 jobs, sinking into economic anguish that wrought increases in drug abuse, homelessness and crime. 
 Thus it was a triumph for Kingston when, during the Internet boom, local leaders came up with what they thought would be a silver bullet for the area's problems: they agreed to give millions of dollars, including hefty tax breaks, to two developers who wanted to transform two old I.B.M. campuses into high-tech centers for the new economy.
But the optimism was short-lived. By spring 2000, before the two technology centers could fill even half their space with tenants, the Internet bubble had burst, and this city of 23,500 people was left feeling betrayed yet again by a technology boom that had made others rich. 
More than that, Kingston, about 100 miles north of Manhattan, has become a telling example of the dreams and disappointments of the Internet boom and bust, which are generally associated with 22-year-old programming whizzes and dot-com paper millionaires in places like San Francisco and New York City. The city's plight shows how the new economy's rise and fall reached far into the lives of people in small-town America.
"There were a number of small cities and towns across the country that were inspired by the technology boom that we had from 1996 through 1999," said Ross C. DeVol, director of regional and demographic studies at the Milken Institute, an economic research group in Santa Monica, Calif., which studied Kingston for a report on emerging high-tech centers. "But, as it turns out, a lot of those places focused too much of their technology-based economic development strategies on dot-coms."
In many respects, Kingston's economy had a slow recovery after I.B.M. left in 1993. Although the number of jobs had slowly started to go back up by the late 1990's, many of the new positions involved less skill and lower pay than the jobs I.B.M. had provided; the company's workers had pumped an estimated $2.5 billion a year into the local economy.
In the middle of 1997, when many thought the Internet boom would go on forever, local economic development officials, with help from the state, put together a plan to turn this rural region into a technology corridor. The hope was to draw dot-coms to the cheap office space that I.B.M. left behind when it pulled out.
The state expanded the Empire Zone in Kingston and Ulster, a nearby town, giving new companies that brought jobs to the area a reprieve from sales taxes, a tax exemption on the purchase of certain services or property and other tax breaks. Gov. George E. Pataki gave Kingston $250,000 to refurbish its ornate but deteriorating City Hall, and $2.7 million to redo a traffic circle in the historic district.
Economic development officials raised more than $400,000 from local nonprofit organizations, businesses and government agencies to promote the old I.B.M. complexes to companies outside the area. State and local officials pitched in nearly $1 million for the effort.
The chairman of the Ulster County Legislature, Ward Todd, began personally recruiting technology companies and developers. As added enticements, Kingston offered Internet companies a work force cheaper than New York City's and a way of life that included beautiful yet inexpensive four-bedroom Victorian homes near the Catskills and the Hudson River.
By 1998, the I.B.M. complexes in Kingston had been sold to two Manhattan developers: Alan Ginsberg, the president of the Ginsberg Organization, a commercial real estate firm, and Savanna Partners, a real estate group that had successfully marketed technology centers like Dumbo, a neighborhood in Brooklyn, and Silicon Alley in Manhattan.
Savanna Partners spent $4.5 million to buy the smaller site, a 600,000-square-foot, two-building complex that was renamed the Ulster County Technology Center. 
The 12-acre site, once the home to nearly 1,000 I.B.M. workers who tested software and computers, was able to offer an average rent of $9.50 per square foot a year, compared with rates of about $63 per square foot in Manhattan, according to research from Newmark & Company Real Estate, a Manhattan broker. 
Savanna, which teamed up with Newmark, was given a generous property tax break, paying the full rate only on space that had been occupied by tenants.
Nearby, Mr. Ginsberg's site, called Tech City, sits on a 256-acre former I.B.M. campus that includes more than 20 buildings and offers tenants more than 2.5 million square feet of large spaces -- many more than 10,000 square feet each -- for $10 to $13 per square foot. He bought it for about $14.5 million and said he had made millions of dollars in improvements.
The complex once housed more than 7,000 I.B.M. employees. Over the years, it was used for operations like testing mainframes and manufacturing typewriters.
At first, local leaders were euphoric about both developers. But the enthusiasm did not last. Mr. Ginsberg, who sold leases on his own, wrestled with local officials over how the area should be marketed, and ultimately did not receive the same type of local property tax break given to Savanna Partners.
He lost a court battle with local officials over his desire to reduce the $3 million tax bill, a ruling he is appealing. 
In court papers for the case, which both sides agree has permanently strained their relations, Mr. Ginsberg said he was losing millions of dollars a year on the property.
Today, 1.7 million square feet of Tech City is still available. Empty hallways and offices with raised ceilings only add to the feeling of desolation. 
But local officials do not sound sympathetic. "I think Mr. Ginsberg, if he marketed the site properly, would have at least by now had people lining up to sign up for the building," said James Maloney, the local tax assessor.
Across Route 9W at the Ulster County Technology Center, things are financially a bit better, even though only 65,000 out of 600,000 square feet has been rented. The only reason the technology center is breaking even is that special tax breaks were given by the local officials. Savanna officials grumble that Newmark has been unable to attract the type of tenants they want. 
Mr. Ginsberg, who has begun marketing his site as back office space for large companies, said that he was still committed to Tech City, but that he was having a hard time attracting tenants. "I came here with the hope and desire to make this successful," he said. "But it has been much harder than I expected."
Local officials, who are unsure how much money was spent trying to recast Kingston, now say that they are going to lie low and evaluate the economic situation before making a move on any other industries. 
"It's depressing," said Eugene R. Gruner, a real estate broker whose family roots in Kingston run back to the 1840's. He said he had little hope for either of the two properties. "For local people, this is not an optimistic place to live right now. Our money could have been better spent."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Alan Ginsberg, the developer of Tech City in Kingston, N.Y. Above, Tom Collins, a broker at the Ulster County Technology Center. (Photographs by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TRENDS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); CITIES (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) KINGSTON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



430 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: The Fiber Optic Network: Not Exactly a Railroad 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "In Technology, Supply Precedes Demand" (On the Contrary, Sept. 2), in which Daniel Akst compared the glut of long-haul fiber optic lines to the overcapacity of the national railroad system in its early days: 
 The comparison is one of apples to oranges. 
Railroads were built to ease the flow of commerce in the transportation of raw materials, finished goods and people from coast to coast, thus avoiding the need to use sailing ships around South America, a process that required months. Unless there is a technology to dematerialize and rematerialize matter for transportation via fiber optics, the only need for the vast fiber optic network is to transport information that flows quite well with existing systems.
It is also amusing to note that many of the same politicians and so-called experts who praised the information age of the 1980's and the new economy of the 90's as replacements for smokestack industry are now wailing about economic stagnation. 
The current situation has resulted from a lack of common sense. High technology may scrunch onto a tiny chip what used to fit only in a huge cabinet, but it still cannot exist without manufacturing; computers do not land in warehouses and store shelves from thin air. 
The trade deficit has reached alarming proportions as the country has concentrated on the new economy that is now in such dire straits.

RICHARD BECKER
Broomfield, Colo., Sept. 2


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIBER OPTICS (93%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (51%); COMPUTER MAKERS (51%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS; RAILROADS 

PERSON: AKST, DANIEL; BECKER, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



431 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Before & After; 
In a Changing Skyline, A Sudden, Glaring Void

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL J. LEWIS; Michael J. Lewis, chairman of the art department at Williams College, is the author of "Frank Furness: Architecture and the Violent Mind" (W. W. Norton).

 BODY:
THE World Trade Center towers never inspired the loyalty and affection of New York's great skyscrapers of the past. A spectacular site but a lackluster performance, at best a colossal piece of minimalist sculpture -- so ran the consensus. If anyone derived aesthetic pleasure from them, it was offset by the pity they aroused for having been built during the early 1970's, that low-water mark of architectural modernism.
 But in imagination and memory they now occupy a site greater than the prow of Manhattan. With their cheeky brashness, standing pugnaciously apart from the gregarious huddle of skyscrapers at Midtown, they were the apotheosis of American capitalism. In them, all the elements of American skyscraper tradition converged: colossal ambition and ego, the eager embrace of the newest technology, the inspired real estate gambit, and the frank recognition that a skyscraper is not so much a work of art as a work of advertising. 
 Like advertising, alas, buildings come and go. Such is the nature of the American city. The skyline may look like an exquisite stroke of calligraphy but it is more akin to the jagged mark of a seismograph, which testifies to deeper upheavals and turbulence below. Convulsive changes in property values, staggering building undertakings, colossal bankruptcies, the reciprocal action of destruction and construction: this is the normal metabolism of a healthy and living city. We are hardened to it, treating our commercial buildings as disposable artifacts. We accept the demolitions and the implosions, those great urban erasures, and even the collective howl of anguish that arises from time to time, say over the loss of Penn Station, soon subsides.
But the loss of the World Trade Center is something far different. It is an instantaneous and convulsive change in the city's topography, transforming the physical landscape violently and definitively, in a way we associate with the greatest of natural disasters, like those volcanoes that explode and vanish. It has let loose feelings far deeper -- more primitive and instinctive -- than mere architectural nostalgia. It is the terror at the presence of uncontrollable natural forces, usually kept safely at a submerged level of human consciousness.
It is now clear that the World Trade Center towers occupied a far greater position in the physical and psychological landscape of New York than anyone realized. They have now become what much of the world could plainly see (and which New Yorkers could only belatedly see): the city's most conspicuous and symbolically freighted civic monument.
Civic monuments require spacious vistas and open plazas from which they can be seen, and approached, and this few skyscrapers achieve -- or maintain. Most successful ones invariably carry a train of imitators in their wake, crowding about them and masking them. Not so the World Trade Center towers, which stood in defiant isolation as the first skyscrapers once did. 
Here was a pair of buildings in the spirit of Louis Sullivan, the inventor of the skyscraper. Sullivan served hard-boiled Chicago businessmen, but he spoke the language of transcendentalism, an exhilarating cocktail of Emerson and Whitman. For him the skyscraper must be "every inch a proud and soaring thing, rising in sheer exultation that from bottom to top it is a unit without a single dissenting line." Sullivan would have appreciated the World Trade Center, admired its arrogance.
It is not only the site in space that made the World Trade Center towers a monument, but their site in time. They stood near the historical epicenter of American capitalism, just outside the wall that contained the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam. This was the one great American city dating from the 17th century not founded as a haven from religious persecution; it was based on profit rather than salvation. Though conquered by the English in 1664, it maintained its vaunting commercial energy, nurtured within families whose names -- Vanderbilt, Rockefeller, Morgan -- form a roster of American capitalism.
But the site had more to it than nostalgia value. Once enterprising New Yorkers built the Erie Canal, establishing a link to the Great Lakes and Mississippi River, the port was linked to the interior. The wealth of the continent was collected, as if in a giant funnel, which channeled its goods along the Hudson River. For the first time there was a national market, and a national economy; that the World Trade Center arose at that spot -- the very spout of the funnel -- is symbolism of the highest order.
As in Edgar Allen Poe's "Purloined Letter," this was always there, in plain sight. But the World Trade Center towers -- unloved, disregarded, unnoticed Leviathans -- were never accorded the mythic status they deserved. No one seems to have seen them as clearly as the men who destroyed them.
In their absence, the World Trade Center towers are more a monument than ever. The physical void they leave is itself a poignant memorial, an aching emptiness that is the architectural counterpart to a human loss. Unlike the victims of our disposable architectural culture, they need not fear being dislodged or overtaken. They now stand among the great and vanished monuments of the past. Like the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World -- the Colossus of Rhodes or the mighty Lighthouse of Alexandria -- they have reached their apotheosis through destruction.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Kehoe of Engine 28 heading up a stairwell in Tower One Tuesday. (Associated Press); Pedestrians fleeing the collapse. (Agence France-Presse); A handprint on an ash-covered windshield. (Associated Press); A coating of ash covered downtown. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); TERRORISM (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); HIJACKING (66%); MISSING PERSONS (62%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ARCHITECTURE; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

PERSON: LEWIS, MICHAEL J (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



432 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: In for the Long Haul 

 BODY:
Tomorrow, Americans will try to return to normal. This is a resilient country, and even in New York City, most citizens have already chosen to go back to their regular routines as quickly as possible. In general, we are not a people that spends much time looking back. "Move on" is practically the national mantra.
 This is commendable and indeed necessary in view of the alternative: a capitulation to fear and despair that the terrorists must surely have hoped for. There has been no finer rebuke to their pretensions than America's determination to press on. 
 But the normal we are returning to is different from what we knew a week ago. Tuesday's tragedies were not only unifying but clarifying. Americans now live a state of war against an irrational, vengeful and elusive enemy. And if we are to win, we will have to become used to the idea that we are in this for the long haul. Coming to terms with that new reality, winning this war, will require discipline, stamina and sacrifice.
For years now, younger Americans have yearned to prove that they are as patriotic and as capable of self-sacrifice as the Greatest Generation. The commitment made after Pearl Harbor was both larger and simpler than the one we are being asked to undertake. Back then, the aim was clear, the path was obvious, and the sense of solidarity was natural for a country that had to focus single-mindedly on winning World War II.
Our shared mission, to eradicate terrorism, is a noble one. The rewards for victory would be immense -- a safer world and a planetary commitment to cooperation and tolerance. But our individual tasks are vague. President Bush is unlikely to reinstate the draft or impose rationing. We will go about our ordinary jobs as before. Buying consumer goods is not only possible, it has been elevated to a virtual act of patriotism to aid a flagging economy. Nevertheless, we will need to make sacrifices that are all the more difficult because they are unseen and require more patience than heroism.
American resilience, which allows us to bounce back from setbacks, forgive old enemies and rewrite our national story for every generation, has a downside. Some may call it a short national attention span. Yesterday's crusade is tomorrow's inconvenience. The gas crisis that was supposed to commit us to energy conservation quickly gave way to the S.U.V. era. People who willingly stand in lines to get through airport security this month may not be so understanding by the Thanksgiving holidays.
Terrorist hijackings or airline explosions in the past have led to periods of tighter airline security, followed quickly by periods of relaxation and colossal carelessness. What should be clear now is that the days of relatively unhindered air travel, with curbside check-ins and all the rest, are almost surely gone and that a period of considerable inconvenience is upon us.
Our politics are going to have to change as well. It has been a very long time since American officials told their constituents that they would have to make some sacrifices for the common good. But that will almost surely be the case if we are going to transform our defense and intelligence systems from cold war monoliths to agile, inventive organizations that can detect and defeat terrorists. Some obsolete bases will have to be closed, and defense contracts that provide profits and jobs to key Congressional districts will have to go by the wayside. The laundry list of promises candidates made in the last election will have to be trimmed.
Perhaps most painful of all, America may have to give up the post-Vietnam illusion that it is possible to fight wars with few casualties. Our success in the Persian Gulf and even our limited achievements in the Balkans created the illusion that American military technology is sophisticated enough to be used in combat without putting soldiers in harm's way. But what we have actually been enjoying is an extended string of luck. Last week, the message came through loud and clear that luck can run out.
Washington must be changed, as well as the rest of the country. The response of previous administrations to terrorism abroad -- the 1996 Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia, the embassy bombings in Africa two years later, the attack on the U.S.S. Cole last year -- has been much like the nation's airline security policy: fitful, short-lived and not terribly effective. If our people have a short attention span, it is probably because their leaders do.
Over the past week, Americans have contemplated the great divide that separates life before the hijacked planes plowed into the twin towers and the Pentagon with life after. The unspoken presumption seems to be that we have experienced a loss that stretches beyond the thousands of lives that fell victim to the terrorists. There has been a sense that whatever comes next must naturally be diminished.
That need not be true. As many candidates pointed out in the last election, Americans desperately want to commit to something greater than themselves. That was the secret of what we admired in the World War II era, and it is what this new war against terrorism will require as well. The awful week of death and destruction that has just ended might be the invitation to create a great new generation and a finer United States.
To get there, we must be careful to protect the core of our national culture, to remember that we are fighting not for a flag but for a system of beliefs that includes our basic civil liberties and an unyielding tolerance. Social conservatives who have been speculating that the destruction of the World Trade Center was punishment from a God grown angry at abortion and homosexuality are rushing in exactly the wrong direction. The people who gathered at various prayer services around the country last week represented not only different races and creeds, but different social agendas and political outlooks. By their very coming together, they showed their belief in a world in which no one believes that God's face is turned implacably against any human being.
We wake up tomorrow and take one more step down a new and very long path. But the promise at the end can be worth the journey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (69%); AIRPORTS (63%); THANKSGIVING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



433 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1833 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE VOICES; 
A Black Cloud. A Shower of Glass. A Glimpse of Hell. Run!

BYLINE:  By ANNE CRONIN 

 BODY:
Dawn drew pink edges on the twin towers of the World Trade Center on Tuesday, Sept. 11, 2001. But as the sun rose higher, two jet planes were headed toward Lower Manhattan, determined to make it the last day for thousands. 
 For those who could only watch, those who survived and those who tried to pull life from the ruins, some memories of the day have turned to blurs while others are icy-sharp images. What follows is a collection of raw memories, gathered while the debris still swirled. ANNE CRONIN 

Before the Crash

NATALIA LESZ, a 21-year-old student staying in a hotel in Union Square while her apartment was being renovated, was on the phone with her mother in Warsaw.
"I called my mom at 9 a.m. and was talking about a guy I met. I speak to my mother every morning. Then my dog, Izzy, a Maltese, raised his head. I heard the plane on the seventh floor of the W Hotel."
"I told her, 'I think a plane is next to my window.' "

The First Plane Hits

GREGORY DOWNER was walking his dog at Fifth Avenue and 11th Street.
"There were 12 people. We all looked up. We all thought it would be unusual for a plane to be flying so low over the city.
"It scooped down even lower over the South Village -- almost like a missile -- and then toward the north tower of the World Trade Center. When it went into the building we all screamed -- we couldn't believe what we saw."

LAKSHMAN ACHUTHAN, managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, was at a meeting at 1 World Trade Center.
"The breakfast started at 8 and at about 8:50, Robert Scott, who is Morgan Stanley's president, was speaking. Then there is this thud and you could see everyone's face just widen up."

LYNN SIMPSON, communications director of Strategic Communications Group, was on the 89th floor of 1 World Trade Center.
"I heard an enormous crash. The ceiling fell in, the lights went out and the sprinklers went on. There was a fire in the stairwell. I told everyone to get out.
"We went into a side office and we were listening to the radio -- some talk show -- and the D.J.'s were joking, saying a kamikaze pilot has crashed into the World Trade Center and they were laughing. We thought we were going to die."

LEONORE McKEAN, a paralegal at Merrill Lynch, was working at 222 Broadway, near Nassau Street, when her building shook and she heard a terrible crash.
"We saw people jumping from high windows at the World Trade Center. It was so crushing. I suppose if you had to choose between burning to death and falling unconscious, which would you choose?"

EDGARDO VILLEGAS hurried down 32 flights of steps in 2 World Trade Center and arrived outside to the view of people in midair.
"They looked like rag dolls being tossed. Their bodies were lifeless; just twirling in the air, dressed in suits."

Between the Crashes

SHARNISE WINGATE, 25, a service technician for Verizon, was making a repair call in Brooklyn Heights when a friend called her to tell her that one of the towers had been hit.
"I was watching the flames and saw a second aircraft come in low and make a sharp left into the second tower. I was confused. It didn't look like a rescue aircraft."

SHARELLE HICKS, 32, was in Brooklyn Heights watching NY1 and saw the explosion. She rushed out to the Brooklyn Promenade.
"I looked to my left toward the Statue of Liberty and there was a passenger plane. I could see it coming. I couldn't understand why it was so low. The right wing went down. The plane went down and straight into the south tower. It was very deliberate."
"It was strange that on the Heights you couldn't hear it. You could just see it."

LISLE TAYLOR was on her way to work at Goldman Sachs.
"I got out of the subway and there were hundreds of pieces of paper in the air. I thought it was a marketing campaign. Then I heard a boom."

The Second Plane Hits

GEORGE C. SHEA, 37, was driving north, just out of the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel, when a blue-gray sport utility vehicle in front of him was hit by an enormous wheel that he believes was from a plane.
"I'm guessing 8 or 10 feet in diameter, in a rain of debris, with a strut, prop, metal attached to it."

JOHN BOGGIO, a phone clerk from BRG Brokerage, stood staring at the gray smoke belching from the holes in the towers and knew that his girlfriend, Jody Nicolos, who worked on the 105th floor, was dead.
"I can't even think. She's got a 13-year-old daughter. I don't know what I'm going to tell her daughter. I don't know what I'm going to tell my son."

One Tower Collapses

JIM ZAMPARELLI, 54, was standing near Stuyvesant High School.
"This is the most horrifying thing I've ever experienced. Look -- oh my God, look -- there's a person falling. I can't watch. Don't watch."
"Oh my God, as we're talking that whole tower is falling. Run!"

DAVID ROHDE, a reporter for The New York Times, was outside the World Trade Center when the collapse started.
"First, a sharp crack and then what sounded, oddly, like a waterfall, thousands of panes of glass shattering as the north side of the tower buckled. Then a slow, building rumble like rolling thunder that will not stop as the tower cascades toward the ground. And finally the silence of dozens of people running for their lives focused on nothing but themselves and survival as the thick brown cloud of debris surges down the street."

WARREN ST. JOHN, a writer who lives on Sullivan Street, ran down to the street after the first plane hit and saw the chain reaction of destruction.
"We could see the northeast corner of the building, and that it had kind of buckled. There was this long line of fire moving lower and lower through the building, and everyone was saying, 'Look at that metal, look at that metal, it's going to buckle, it's going to come down,' and then there was an unreal, a thunderous roar, and we saw the top of it disappearing into the building. Everyone just stood there, in shock. And then the entire crowd started to cry, to sob."

KEITH VANCE, 33, had been standing on Broadway in front of Trinity Church when he saw the tower collapse.
"I was surprised how long it lasted. It was probably only 30 seconds, but it felt like five minutes."

The Second Collapse

LOUIS CENTENO, an employee at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital, was out on the street trying to get people to donate blood when the second tower collapsed.
"You know how dominoes go down? That's how this went. One by one. Each floor. Real fast, in about 10 seconds."

JOE DISORDO was describing his escape from the 72nd floor of 2 World Trade Center when he suddenly realized that he was staring into vacant space.
"Where is the building? Did it fall down? Where is it?"

SADIYA CARONE watched from the corner of Eighth Avenue and 25th Street.
"The building looked like a cigarette. Big horizontal black smoke near a bottom of 'ash.' Then jet-black smoke shot out, like a Saturn-like ring. Then the building just sank, just sat down."

DAVID STROUT, who lives across from the trade center at 110 Liberty Street, went outside after the first tower collapsed. He then ran back into his apartment.
"I grabbed some towels from the linen closet and wet them and ran outside -- this is a minute after the first one collapsed. It was like being in a blizzard, like a crazy rendering of the apocalypse. I didn't know where I was going at first; you couldn't see street signs. I started running toward a friend's house and there was soot everywhere. I started throwing towels to as many people as I could."

Fleeing the Scene

MIKE DIAZ PIEDRA'S leg was broken when he was trampled in the garage of 75 Park Place after the first plane hit:
"All of a sudden, people went crazy. And then a man built like a refrigerator ran over me."

MIKE PANONE kept going until he was in Brooklyn, then stopped to wipe the soot off his face.
"The sky was just a big black cloud and I couldn't outrun the cloud."

CAROL WEBSTER had just come out of the PATH train station when the first plane crashed. She ran uptown.
"I heard a lot of people saying 'Jesus Christ' -- I don't know in what way. I heard people asking how they were going to get home and I told them to get down on their knees and thank God they were alive."

PAULINE BASS went toward the South Street Seaport.
"There were shoes and bags in the street. There was about three inches of ash. People were walking without shoes."

MARCI UIHLEIN, from San Francisco, and her boyfriend, Joe Morris, had just entered the New York Stock Exchange when the first plane hit.
"All of my life, I've wanted to come and see New York City. Now, I want desperately to figure how to get out."

Beyond the Blast

MALKIE YADAIE, the owner of Ben-Ness Photos on University Place, said that people rushed in to buy disposable cameras.
"Some didn't wait for their change, just ran out. Some were screaming."

ESTHER ALLEN went to Public School 41 on West 11th Street to pick up her two sons and found that evacuees from Public School 234, three blocks north of the trade center, had been brought there. She volunteered to stay with a class of those children:
"They were shellshocked. I tried to be lively and happy with them, but no, they had seen a lot."

HOWARD ASHMAN, a Seventh-day Adventist, was in Midtown, with a "Jesus Saves" hard hat in one hand and a handful of Christian tracts in the other:
"People were taking the tracts today. Right across the board. They were saying, 'Amen.' "

At St. Vincent's

BERNARD REISBECT, a critical-care physician at St. Vincent's, came outside after more than 50 injured people had been brought into the emergency room.
"I hope that we have enough morphine."

THE REV. LLOYD PRATOR stood on the sidewalk to meet the ambulances to bless victims and give last rites.
"It was a glimpse of hell. People were covered with debris and glass. Everyone was covered with ash."

KATHY MUNOZ was crying as she looked for her husband, Francisco, who had worked on the 97th floor of 1 World Trade Center.
"I just want to find him. I don't care if he's missing, I just want him home."

The Rescue Effort

RICHARD VITALE, a firefighter with Ladder Company 24, took the Staten Island Ferry to the scene and ran toward where the World Trade Center used to be.
"There were body parts everywhere. You couldn't tell the body parts from the metal."

CRAIG TECHKY, a canine officer with the New York Police Department, was taking a moment before continuing the search.
"We found a helmet and some gear, but no body. We've got to keep looking. I've got a lot of friends in there."

FIRST LT. BRIAN W. PELTON of the Army Reserve, from Upper Marlboro, Md., gave an impromptu CPR class on West Street.
"After eight minutes, it's likely they are brain-dead if they're still not breathing. At that point, you can give a quick shot to the heart."

DR. DAVID NAGEL, from New York University Downtown Hospital, was waiting to offer medical help at the rescue site.
"The entire block is incinerated. It doesn't look like anything you would be able to pull anybody out of."

JOE LENNON, a four-year veteran of the Fire Department, had to fight back tears.
"You lose one guy and that is major. To lose 200 plus brothers -- it's not easy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sharnise Wingate wept in Brooklyn Heights after the second jet hit the World Trade Center. "I was confused," Ms. Wingate said. "It didn't look like a rescue aircraft." (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); DOGS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); BURN INJURIES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: CRONIN, ANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



434 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3570 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE MISSING; 
Snapshots of Their Lives, Told With the Pain of Those Who Loved Them

BYLINE:  These profiles were written by Diane Cardwell, Glenn Collins, Winnie Hu, Andrew Jacobs, Dean E. Murphy, Lynda Richardson, Janny Scott, Somini Sengupta and Joyce Wadler.

 BODY:
The official number of deaths in the destruction of the World Trade Center stands at 159, and the medical examiner has identified only a few dozen victims. It could be months before many of those killed can be officially confirmed dead. Nearly 5,000 are missing. Here are glimpses of some of those lives.

MARY YOLANDA DOWLING
The Voice of an Angel
 Give Mary Yolanda Dowling an instrument -- an accordion, a piano or a set of bagpipes -- and she is likely to produce a foot-stomping tune. She may have spent her days as an administrator for Aon Corporation, on the 92nd floor of 2 World Trade Center, but Ms. Dowling's mind was often on her music. 
 The oldest of four children and deeply immersed in the Celtic culture she inherited from her father, Ms. Dowling, 46, spent much of her free time singing with a choir near her home in Floral Park, N.Y. Rosaleen Shea, her sister, said she received a standing ovation several years ago after singing the national anthem at a Mets game. "She had a voice like an angel and she shared it with everyone, in good times or bad," Ms. Shea said. "Our entire family is immersed in music, but Yolanda is the most gifted."

GEORGE PATRICK McLAUGHLIN
Psst, It's a Secret
George Patrick McLaughlin grew up as the middle child and only boy among four sisters. He was the peacemaker, the practical joker, the one who could never keep a secret. "Mom, I'm not supposed to tell you this," he would say if a surprise party was being planned. "But we're having a birthday cake." 
His college major was girls, said his mother, Dorothy McLaughlin. When he had a graduation party in Ocean City, N.J., where the family goes for the summer, a family friend remarked that he had never seen such a mixed group, all getting along. "He's the core of many of his friends," Mrs. McLaughlin said. "He likes to keep people happy."
Last Sunday, Mr. McLaughlin, 36, and his sisters celebrated their parents' 40th anniversary by going to Mass in Somers, N.J., where they were married. Afterward, Mrs. McLaughlin remembered, "His father told him he should get a girl like me. And I told him he always had one. He looked at me and said, 'What do you mean?' And I said, 'You've got me.' And he smiled and hugged me. And he went home."

RENA SAM-DINNOO
A Full Life, Each Second
Her day would start at 4 a.m., when she would rise to make coffee for her husband before he left for work, and would not end until after she had watched the 10 o'clock news. In the intervening hours, Rena Sam-Dinnoo would study for her undergraduate degree at Pace University, cook some dinner for her husband, Andy, work a full day in the accounting division of Marsh & McLennan and attend classes at night. It was not that she was without help -- except for the cooking, her husband, who races horses professionally, would do all the housework. It was simply that she "was a very hardworking person," in the words of her sister, Gina Sam. Originally from Trinidad, Ms. Sam-Dinnoo had just finished her degree and was looking forward to going on to a master's and becoming an accountant, her relatives said.
"She was never a dull person," Mr. Dinnoo said. "She is well educated, and loved to talk, really about anything." He said that he and his wife had not seen much of each other lately because he had been away on business for the six weeks before Labor Day, and then she had gone to Boston last weekend to pick apples with relatives. "We went shopping together to buy groceries on Monday night," he said. "Monday night is the last time we went out together."

ANDRE COX
Always on the Go
Andre Cox followed his brothers from St. Vincent in the Caribbean to Canarsie in search of a new future. He thought he might get into architecture by studying computer science. So he took cafeteria jobs and enrolled in 1994 at Brooklyn College. For seven years, he worked full time and went to school full time, too. This was his schedule: up at 4:30 a.m., leave for work at 5:45 a.m.
Most recently, his job was food preparation in a cafeteria on the 101st floor of 1 World Trade Center. When he finished at 3 p.m., he would take the subway to school, go to classes and study, and be home at 11 p.m. On weekends, he studied and slept. "That was his schedule for most of the last seven years," his brother, Nigel, said Friday. "So he really had no social life."
But this summer, he graduated. He had told his mother he was not happy in his job, Nigel Cox said, and began applying for jobs in computers. "I know he had sent out some resumes," Nigel Cox said Friday. "He was looking."

MICHAEL DAVIDSON
A Fight for His Beloved
"He is going to get married in July," Jeff Davidson was saying Friday about his brother Michael, a 27-year-old equity options sales trader for Cantor Fitzgerald. "Her name is Dominique DeNardo. They met in college, at Rutgers. He just saw her from a distance, fell in love with her and wanted her. So he beat up her boyfriend and took her. Caveman-like, pretty much. And they've lived happily ever after. They got engaged on Sept. 21, 2000. On her 25th birthday, he took her to Cancun to propose. He lied to her by saying he won a trip on one of the Web sites just for the weekend. About midway through, he finally popped the question. He waited until sunset on the first night. 
"He's a big mush ball. 
"He cries at commercials. But you better not put that in because he thinks he's a tough guy. He's kind of a big kid -- 5 foot 10, 215 pounds. But he's as sensitive as they come. We have a grandma down in Florida. So every chance we get, we try to get Grandma to fly up. Grandma's like, 'I don't have the money right now.' My brother's like, 'Don't worry.' He pays for it, or we all pitch in, whatever. We get her up here somehow. He cares."

GIOVANNA GAMBALE
Finding Peace With Peace
Giovanna Gambale and her sister Antonia both worked in 1 World Trade Center. Antonia, who is 25 and worked on the fifth floor, was able to get out right away. She called her father, Anthony, in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, and told him she was OK. He told her to come home. Then he said, "What about your sister?"
Giovanna Gambale, 27, was a vice president at Cantor Fitzgerald, on the 105th floor. She loved the Mets, was so organized that even as a child she told the teachers what to do.
"Yesterday I would not have talked to you," Mr. Gambale told a reporter, "but we have had a lot of discussion. We are extremely sad, but we are resigned that my daughter is in heaven. We haven't heard from her in four days. I spoke to a psychiatrist at Cantor Fitzgerald yesterday and he more or less told us nobody survived.
"I loved my daughter, but I'm at peace with God. We've had three prayer services in front of my house: 300 people Wednesday, then 200, tonight about 150. There was a young man in the group whose father is a fireman, missing, caught in the rubble. And we talk about there is no greater love than to lay down your life for your friend and that is what the firemen did. I told people that never in my life did I ever imagine we would be saying prayers as a group on the street, in front of my home, and this is what God wants us to do. If we are going to destroy hatred and bigotry, what we have to do is begin being peaceful."

RONALD C. FAZIO
The Family Man
Ronald C. Fazio's son, Ron Jr., is getting married on Oct. 14. So Mr. Fazio spent the last few months as his son's trusted wedding consultant -- touring reception halls, interviewing florists, considering limousine services. When his three children were young, Mr. Fazio never missed a baseball game, a school play or a prom. "He was the ideal family man," Ron Jr. said. 
In recent years, Mr. Fazio would ride the train from Closter, N.J., to his office at Aon Reinsurance, on the 99th floor of 2 World Trade Center, and two of his grown children would ride in with him. "He lost his father at the age of 9," said Mr. Fazio's wife, Janet. "When he had his children, he used to say to me, 'I don't know how to be a father.' Well, he did a better job than a lot of men. When my parents were sick and dying, he would be the one to go for me if I couldn't handle going because I was devastated. He was a family man for all of us." Mrs. Fazio corrected herself: "He is."

JAYCERYLL DECHAVEZ
Dreams in the Clouds
Jayceryll deChavez never came across like a know-it-all. He was smart but soft-spoken. Still, he had his ambitions. For the longest time, he had dreamed of working in one of the twin towers of the World Trade Center. He even told his mother that he wanted to build his own tower. Mr. deChavez got part of his wish. He worked as an assistant to the portfolio manager at Fiduciary Trust, a job that his parents said he loved, in Tower 2. He was 24 and had just passed the first level of a test to become a financial analyst. He was eager to take a review class for the next level next month. He lived in Carteret, N.J., with his parents, Bibiano and Asuncion deChavez. Despite his humble manner, his parents said, Mr. deChavez never had to struggle to ace tests. He had been at the top of his class from elementary school through Rutgers, where he studied finance and economics. "He was a very ambitious guy," his father said.

PETER A. APOLLO
And Then They Were Silent
This had been a year of dizzying change for Peter A. Apollo. Last month he became a full-fledged securities trader at Cantor Fitzgerald. Two weeks ago his older sister, Denise, was married. Next Sunday he was to turn 27, and on Nov. 16, he and Debbie Johnson were to be married in West Orange, N.J. "He was having the time of his life," said his mother, Cecile Apollo. "He loved his friends, loved his job, and he loved Debbie." 
Mrs. Apollo said she had found some solace in reports that her son died huddling with co-workers on the 104th floor of 2 World Trade Center. Employees in the company's Connecticut office had an open line through a "squawk box," and said thick smoke rising through the stairwells had prevented Mr. Apollo and his co-workers from fleeing. Long before the building collapsed, they told Mrs. Apollo, the voices faded and then ceased altogether. Mrs. Apollo said she believed her son died before the building fell. 
"At least that's what I'm hoping," she said. "I'm trying to find comfort in the fact that he was with the people he loved."

DOUG JASON IRGANG
Lucky Beyond the Odds
Doug Jason Irgang had the kind of jaw-dropping luck that could win a lottery, or save a life. A financial trader, he was there when the trade center was bombed in 1993. And he was on board the Long Island Rail Road train when Colin Ferguson went on a rampage. "Talk about somebody who was able to get out of touchy situations," said his friend Lisa Saffian. "We're hoping that his luck holds." Mr. Irgang, 32, was even lucky in love. Riding the No. 4 train to work daily, he noticed that the same young woman was reading his newspaper over his shoulder. This being New York, they barely exchanged hellos. Then one day, the woman, Kristin Ladner, scribbled her phone number on the newspaper and told him to call. He did. They were engaged a year and a half later, and set a wedding date for this Dec. 22.

MARY BOFFA
A Fresh View of the Future
Mary Boffa's hobby was her sprawling, close-knit family. She had 3 sisters and nearly 30 first cousins. They provided plenty to do on weekends. When she was growing up on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, there was always a cousin to play with. Her father was a blue-collar worker at Western Electric and her mother was a school cafeteria worker. At age 45, Ms. Boffa was an associate vice president for Marsh & McLennan, the financial services conglomerate in 1 World Trade Center. She had recently separated from her husband and moved into a two-bedroom apartment on Staten Island. It had a view of the Verazzano-Narrows Bridge. She had new furniture. "She was very excited," said her nephew, Michael Trudeau. "It was renewal for her."

ELIZABETH DARLING
On the Right Path
Elizabeth Darling was moved by a sermon at a Baptist church in Newark last Sunday about the struggles that make you stronger. Ms. Darling had enough struggles to turn her into Superwoman. She was the single mother of a 2-year-old boy. She feared being laid off from her job as a business analyst at Marsh & McLennan, a financial services conglomerate. She worried about her mortgage payments. The daughter of a minister, Ms. Darling, 28, was a spiritual person. She spoke to her best friend, Toyia Burks, about the sermon, and was surprised to learn that Ms. Burks had heard a similar sermon. It seemed to tell Ms. Darling that she was on the right path. "She was going through a lot of transition and just trying to find a balance," Ms. Burks said. "She reached back to her Christian roots."

NEIL SHASTRI
Tiger Woods, Meet My Wife
Neil Shastri married his college sweetheart, Kruti, three months ago. The wedding pictures had not even come in yet, but married life had already changed the man. Mr. Shastri was called a "big health freak" by his relatives, a man who lived on PowerBars, played basketball and golf religiously and wanted a Tiger Woods poster on the living room wall. His wife said no. Tuesday, at 9 a.m., Mr. Shastri, 25, called her, according to his twin brother, Jay, who was putting up missing-person posters on Lexington Avenue on Friday. Mr. Shastri told Kruti there was a lot of smoke, that he was having trouble breathing. Then he hung up. An information technology consultant, Mr. Shastri had been working in the offices of one of his clients, Cantor Fitzgerald, on the 103rd floor of 1 World Trade Center. Jay Shastri said his twin immediately befriended people. "It might sound cliche-ish right now," he began. His sister-in-law, Priti Naik, 28, finished for him. "If you met right now, he'd be your best friend by the end of the evening."

TAIMOUR KHAN
'He Cannot Be Taken Down'
As a child in Woodbury, N.Y., Taimour Khan doggedly practiced his BMX bike tricks until he could balance on his front tire, on his back tire, and even essay long bunny hops. One day he raced his brother Shaan so fiercely down Fairbanks Boulevard that their pedals tangled, they crashed, and went flying "for 20 yards," Shaan said. Later, although Taimour weighed but 150 pounds and stood 5 feet 11 inches tall, his determination propelled him to the captaincy of the Syosset High School football team and a celebrated 90-yard touchdown run. It was this drive that made Mr. Khan, 29, a commodity futures trader at Carr Futures, heading his own desk on the 90th floor of 1 World Trade Center. "He has the determination to be a really major player," his brother said, "and he cannot be taken down. I know that he's going to make it."

LEONARD JOSEPH SNYDER
Risky Work, Risky Play
He may have been a risk-management insurer, but Leonard Joseph Snyder was hardly averse to risk. He loved to ski and hunt, and spent many a weekend in dicey weather fishing with his father on the family boat off Long Beach Island in New Jersey. But one of his greatest aspirations was so very much more tame: "He really wants to be a Little League coach when his children are old enough," said his mother-in-law, Kathleen Marquet. That would be the twins, Jason and Matthew, 2, and his 3-year-old daughter, Lauren. Mr. Snyder, 34, a vice president at Aon Consultants on the 101st floor of 2 World Trade Center, loved nothing more than "carrying his sons around on his shoulders," she said. It says much about Mr. Snyder, of Cranford, N.J., that his large family and many friends have been distributing leaflets bearing his picture as they journey from hospital to hospital, "looking for Lenny," Mrs. Marquet said. "We won't say that it's too late."

FRANCISCO LIRIANO
Always Trying to Get Ahead
Francisco Liriano liked to set goals for himself. Every month, he would think about a way to move up in his work. He was always taking exams for licenses that might enable him to do things like sell insurance or real estate.
"He was always looking for the next opportunity," said Yvette Toribio, a friend of Mr. Liriano's sister, Maribel Paulino. He worked his way up to the position of assistant to a vice president of Citibank in an office in the World Trade Center, Ms. Toribio said. A Dominican immigrant, he had earned a bachelor's degree in business administration and, two years ago, married Shirley Somwaru, originally from Guayana.
On Tuesday morning, Mr. Liriano, 33, was not in his fifth-floor office in the trade center. He had gone looking for the next opportunity. According to Ms. Toribio, he had gone to a meeting hoping to explore the possibility of landing an even better job. The meeting was on the 105th floor.

KEVIN M. WILLIAMS
Waiting for Wedding Bells
Last year, Kevin M. Williams decided to pop the big question and ask Jillian Volk, his high school sweetheart, to marry him. Mr. Williams, 24, a bond salesman at Sandler O'Neill on the 104th floor of the south tower, took her to Macy's just before Christmas. Together on Santa's lap, he asked. "She had tears of joy," said Dan Williams, his uncle. "Kevin always had a knack to do something a little extra, to make those special occasions something a little extra." Since that day at Macy's, the wedding, scheduled for December, was all Mr. Williams talked about, even at a party in June for his brother's high school graduation. "These were young people in love," his uncle said.

SHARON CHRISTINA MILLAN
A Romance Broken, Lovingly
"I used to play baseball with her older brother, Richie," Tommy Demaris was saying of Sharon Christina Millan, 30, his ex-fiancee, who worked the last two months at the trade center in the human resources department of Harris Beach, a law firm. "This was in school, when we were young, in Astoria. One day I saw her in a little restaurant, a cafe. I asked a friend of mine who she was. And my friend said, 'Richie Villa's sister.' I thought she was stunning, a beautiful girl. She was always worrying about making other people happy," Mr. Demaris said. "She was the type like if you told her something, she'd always believe you. She'd always give you the benefit of the doubt." He added: "I'll put it to you this way. The day that Sharon and I finally let each other go, we sat in a restaurant in Long Island that was filled to capacity. I remember sitting there for 45 minutes, not saying a word, and both of us crying. Because we knew we loved each other, but we had to let each other go. We were best friends. That never ended."

BRENT J. WOODALL
A Present That Will Live On
Brent J. Woodall always loved kids and looked forward to having his own. But when his wife tried to announce the good news subtly a few weeks ago, Mr. Woodall missed the point entirely. As a surprise for their first wedding anniversary, Tracy Pierce Woodall gave her husband a book about what expectant fathers should expect. "He was like, O.K., thanks honey," said Annalisa Fredrickson, a friend visiting the couple's home in Oradell, N.J. "That will come in handy someday."
Mr. Woodall, a trader at Keefe Bruyette & Woods on the 87th floor of the south tower, spoke with his wife three times Tuesday morning. In their last conversation, he said he was headed downstairs. "He is someone you always turned to in a jam, a really reliable guy," Ms. Fredrickson said. "He probably stopped to help someone." Ms. Woodall is now eight weeks pregnant.

VANAVAH THOMPSON
Humming the Day Away
It didn't matter whether he was alone in the shower, or riding a crowded subway; Vanavah Thompson would hum the reggae tunes that he so loved. A native of Guyana, he came to New York City with his mother and two sisters in 1989. He sported dreadlocks halfway down his back, and sometimes tucked them into a striped knit hat like his favorite musicians. Mr. Thompson, 26, was a maintenance worker at the World Trade Center. But at night, he would sing and dance his way through the clubs of Brooklyn and Queens. "I feel that wherever he is right now, he'll sing to himself to keep strong," said his sister, Tsahai Thompson. The one that he always sang, she said, began with the wistful line: "Remember the days when people on the East Side used to go on the West Side and live in peace."

MILLIE HROMADA
At Home in the Vertical City
Everyone in the family knows that to Wendy Breban, Millie Hromada has always been "my Millie." True, there were five sisters and two brothers, but Millie and Wendy were the only two born in Puerto Rico, and their bond was incredibly close. Millie, 35, loved Manhattan -- Wendy called her "city girl" -- and was addicted to the bustling life in the vertical city of the World Trade Center, where she was a secretary at Aon Corporation. Luckily, she was able to take the train from Flushing every day with her husband, Joseph, an electrician who often also worked in the trade center. In fact, that's where he had a job on Tuesday. Millie and Joseph were "like glue," Wendy said, and so, when the plane crashed into 1 World Trade Center, Millie was terrified for Joseph. Wendy and her sister Doris called Millie on her cell phone. There on the 98th floor, Millie had a horrifying view of "the people jumping out," Wendy said. It wasn't until the second plane hit Millie's building that she reached her husband on the phone. He was downstairs, but it was O.K., he said. He was coming to get her. "Millie told him, 'I'll see you later tonight,' " Wendy said, "but then she never came home." Joseph survived and is now looking for Millie. "I feel her, we are so close," Wendy said.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Librado Romero/The New York Times); (Krista Niles/The New York Times)(pg. 8); (pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AON PLC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (55%)

TICKER: AON (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (71%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



435 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: SECURITY; 
Envisioning an Expensive Future in the Brave New World of Fortress New York

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARSTOW 

 BODY:
Late Friday afternoon, pausing amid the swirl of commuters in the main lobby of Grand Central Terminal, a young man leaned into his girlfriend and whispered a thought that in an earlier America would have sounded alarmist and paranoid: "What's to stop a suicide bomber from taking out this whole place?"
 After the suffering of this last week, his words only begin to hint at the broader question many New Yorkers are now confronting with an almost primal urgency: What will it take to make this city's public spaces safe from attack? 
 In interviews after last Tuesday, nine security and terrorism experts tried to answer this question, envisioning a New York City of maximum security where money was no object in the pursuit of safety.
They described a city transformed, a city in which antiaircraft missiles might protect the Statue of Liberty, where Times Square would be converted into a pedestrian mall to thwart truck bombs, where the stained glass in St. Patrick's Cathedral would be coated with a shatter-resistant film, where bomb-sniffing dogs would become an accepted, everyday part of the marble landscape in Grand Central. 
Security options once dismissed as unpalatable, impractical or too expensive would be embraced, they said. There would be long lines, intrusive and random searches, new identification systems and a strange new vocabulary of terms like biometrics, bollards, bomb mitigation containers and smart doors.
"You would have to develop a fortress mind-set," said Joseph R. Rosetti, formerly vice chairman of Kroll Associates and now senior vice president of IPSA International, a leading security company. "You harden the most likely targets and you accept that you're going to be checked and poked and prodded."
You would accept, he said, that your efforts might not stop a terrorist who was willing to die to make a point or that your efforts might simply push the terrorist toward a slightly less conspicuous site nearby. 
Yet officials at several New York City landmarks said that at least some elements of this new world are sure to be adopted. 
"We're going to look at everything," said Tom Kelly, spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which oversees security at Grand Central Terminal.
"A week ago," he said, "certain things would have been unheard of as safety options. But now you reassess, you reconsider."
In one telling sign of the times, spokesmen for the American Civil Liberties Union -- normally quick to take issue with calls for increased profiling, random searches and surveillance cameras -- declined to comment.
Oddly enough, the strongest misgivings were expressed by the same security consultants who, with clinical expertise, provided a glimpse of what maximum protection might look like in New York City, post Sept. 11. These experts were asked to focus on four New York landmarks: Times Square, St. Patrick's Cathedral, Grand Central Terminal and the Statue of Liberty. As was once the case with the World Trade Center, each is central to the city's cultural and commercial life, and each has been on experts' lists of likely terrorist targets in the United States.
But Howard Safir, the former New York City police commissioner who is now consultant to the chairman of ChoicePoint, a security information company, warned of embracing a "bunker, bomb-camp mind-set." While acknowledging, for example, that turning Times Square into a pedestrian mall might be the most effective countermeasure to car bombs, he said that such a step would only signal defeat. "That's basically caving to terrorism," he said.
He did, on the other hand, suggest the installation of 100 or so surveillance cameras in Times Square. The cameras, he said, should be integrated with biometric facial imaging software, allowing the images of all pedestrians to be compared with photographs of known terrorists.
Biometric surveillance systems were a favorite of each of the security experts interviewed, but they were only a small part of what Times Square would become. As things stand now, they said, Times Square is vulnerable to a massive truck bomb, a favorite of terrorists that could well cause hundreds of deaths, particularly if it were detonated as crowds lined up for Broadway shows.
While some security consultants argued that the only sure defense is closing Times Square to all cars and trucks, there were less extreme suggestions. Some said that truck traffic should be restricted to early-morning hours through designated routes, where they would be subjected to inspections at checkpoints.
And there would be more: new blast-resistant windows in all stores; specially reinforced trash cans that absorb the blasts of package bombs; public service announcements urging people to report all unattended packages; frequent sweeps with bomb-detection dogs and with laboratory equipment that detects the chemical traces of explosives; still more surveillance cameras on rooftops of surrounding buildings to look for anyone intent on attacking with mortars or fragmentation grenades.
A similar menu of defenses was prescribed for Grand Central Terminal, but maximum security would demand much, much more. To start with, every single person working at Grand Central would be subjected to security screening. The number of entrances would be sharply reduced. Those that remained would, at the very least, be equipped with systems for detecting weapons and explosives, although this could result in lengthy delays and long lines.
Jeffrey K. Beatty, president of Total Security Services International, which has advised the National Football League, the Pentagon and the Statue of Liberty, proposed setting up lanes that would funnel each person entering Grand Central though "passive walk-through metal detectors." While these would not require people to line up as they do at more sensitive airport scanners, the lanes would be monitored by officers trained in profiling techniques to spot potential terrorists, he said. Partitions made of materials that absorb shrapnel would be strategically placed to limit the carnage should a suicide bomber, realizing that he had been spotted, decided to detonate himself.
Grand Central presents a nightmarish scenario for chemical or biological attacks, particularly at rush hour. "It has been a major concern to us for years," said Mr. Kelly, the spokesman for the M.T.A.
There are no known devices that can detect whether someone is carrying chemical or biological agents, terrorism specialists said. But these specialists did describe several steps they would take. First, they would equip all air-conditioning systems in Grand Central with devices that neutralize chemical and biological agents with pulsing ultraviolet light. Second, they would build "shelter-in-place areas," large, secure rooms with air-lock entrances that commuters could dash into should chemical or biological agents be detected. Third, they would embark on an aggressive campaign of asking commuters to submit to "voluntary" searches. 
St. Patrick's Cathedral was seen as particularly vulnerable, given its undefended main entrance along Fifth Avenue. "Those steps are nice and comparatively flat and you could drive right up them," said Norman J. Glover, an architectural engineer and chairman of the American Society of Civil Engineers' committee for mitigating the effects of terrorism.
The security experts were unanimous in recommending the installation of bollards -- huge flower planters -- to deter such an attack, and a few urged the closure of 49th and 50th Streets just north and south of St. Patrick's. "When it comes to bombs, you're fighting for feet," Mr. Glover said.
Maximum security would also mean ending St. Patrick's tradition of leaving its doors wide open to all comers. There would be metal detectors and security guards -- armed, of course -- and all priests and other employees would be required to wear identification badges. There would be regular sweeps with bomb-sniffing dogs before and after each service, and the stained glass windows would be treated with a special antishrapnel coating. 
By contrast, the Statue of Liberty was viewed as relatively secure, mainly because authorities have long recognized its symbolic appeal to terrorists. It has surveillance cameras, and anyone who wants to take the stairs up to the crown must pass through airport-style X-ray and screening equipment. The trash cans are of the bomb-resistant variety, and its security personnel are trained in techniques for spotting and reacting to potential terrorists.
But there was a consensus among the experts that the security could be far tighter yet. For example, all boating traffic should be kept at least a quarter mile from Liberty Island, and the perimeter ideally should be constantly patrolled by armed boats, though a floating barrier was deemed a viable option. What's more, all passengers should be required to pass through metal detectors, biometric surveillance cameras and bomb-scanning equipment before even setting foot on the ferries to the statue. 
Otherwise there is a risk of someone carrying a satchel full of high explosives to the island and detonating it at the base. "You would probably crumple the statue," Mr. Glover said.
The trickiest question involved the airspace over the Statue of Liberty. While each of the security experts said he would close off the airspace, there was disagreement over how best to protect it. 
Mr. Safir, for one, favored keeping fighter jets on constant alert to respond to any aircraft approaching the airspace over either Manhattan or the statue. But others said that antiaircraft-missile systems could be installed. Both approaches, they agreed, left open the chance of shooting down an innocent aircraft. 
As for the cost of all of this upgraded security, several asserted that the price would be cheap when compared with the $40 billion already committed by the federal government to aid New York's recovery efforts. "You could do a hell of a job," Mr. Rosetti said, "with less than a billion dollars."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: "Maximum Security"Security consultants agree that there is no way to eliminate the threat of terrorism at New York City's landmarks. But even approaching maximum security, experts say, might mean the following drastic measures. Times Square area (from above) INCREASING SURVEILLANCEPlace cameras at every corner near the height of street lights. Images could be transmitted to computers and processed with face recognition software. Suggested camera locations INCREASING PATROLSAssign police or security officers to each corner and allow canine explosive detection teams to roam the square. Also establish vapor-and trace-detection units in the area to detect explosives in suspect bags or packages. Each dot is possible police or security personnel REINFORCING BUILDINGSReinforce steel and concrete columns on lower floors and fortify street-level windows by attaching shatter-resistant film. Also, secure heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems to prevent chemical or biological agents from being introduced. DECREASING TRAFFICRestrict the size of vehicles going through the square so only small sedans are allowed. When pedestrian traffic is heaviest, like the start and finish of Broadway shows, stop traffic altogether with barricades that can rise from beneath the street. Alternatively, turn the square into a pedestrians-only zone. Possible barricade locations DECREASING PARKINGEliminate all above-and below-ground public parking in the area to prevent vehicle bombs from being placed. Current parking garage or lot INCREASING PUBLIC AWARENESSBroadcast public service announcements thoughout the square and use some billboard and poster space to promote civic vigilance. As in the messages at airports, remind citizens to report unattended baggage and cars. INCREASING ATTENTION TO DETAILSUse heavy, blast-resistant trash cans throughout the square and place large, thick planters along building fronts. Diagram of Times Square Area. (Sources: Urban Data Solutions; Jack Plaxe, C.T.I. Security Consulting; Norman J. Glover, Joint Working Group for Defense Against Chemical and Biological Terrorism)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (71%); CITIES (70%); DOGS (70%); BIOMETRICS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (65%); MISSING PERSONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (53%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; MISSING PERSONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: BARSTOW, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42ND STREET (NYC); WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



436 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE PUBLIC; 
Poll Finds Strong Support for U.S. Use of Military Force

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE and JANET ELDER

 BODY:
As they move from shock to fury, Americans are bracing for the United States to go to war, and they overwhelmingly say the nation should take military action against those responsible for the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
 That sentiment declines at the prospect that thousands of innocent civilians abroad could be killed. Still, a majority of Americans support engagement by the military even under those circumstances. 
 The crisis has spurred the public to put aside its past reservations about the leadership of President Bush and instead to rally wholeheartedly behind the relatively new president and express confidence in his ability to guide the nation. His job approval rating has soared to 84 percent, compared with 50 percent just over a month ago. 
Americans say they are ready to alter their lifestyles, and even sacrifice some of their own liberties, for safety considerations. They say they would be willing to arrive three hours early for domestic airline flights to pass through heightened security and would withstand long lines at public events and in public buildings to pass through metal detectors and inspections by guards.
The public also supports changing the law to allow for the assassination of people in foreign countries who commit terrorist attacks.
Although more than half the respondents said they did not think Arab-Americans were any more sympathetic toward terrorists than other Americans, the public is expecting a backlash against Arab-Americans, Muslims and immigrants from the Middle East.
The telephone poll of 959 adults nationwide was conducted on Thursday and Friday, as Americans were only beginning to digest the implications of the terrorist attacks and to ponder how the nation should respond. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
As the initial shock of last Tuesday's attacks begins to dissipate, Americans are now turning toward thoughts of punishing the perpetrators. The poll did not ask who people think is the enemy or what specific action they envision. But in follow-up interviews many respondents in the Times/CBS poll said they backed military action, even if that meant American casualties.
"I don't like the idea of American lives being lost in a war," said Virginia Harrison, 56, a housewife in Tallahassee, Fla., "but we can't just sit here and let them continue to do it because they will probably do it again. I don't believe innocent people should be killed if it's not necessary, but we had innocent people who were killed."
Describing herself as "angry and outraged," Joy Hess, 58, a library clerk in Medford, Ore., said: "I'm not talking about revenge, but justice. I have a son in the military and I know loss of life is a risk. But there is no other way to get across that we mean business. We wouldn't be where we are now in history if we hadn't fought for our freedom. Freedom means losses sometimes."
It is not a huge surprise that Mr. Bush faces the most critical chapter of his presidency with a surge in his popularity. His 11 predecessors enjoyed sharp increases in support during crises. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's ratings skyrocketed. He was the earliest president about whom such surveys were taken. John F. Kennedy won great public support during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, as did Jimmy Carter when hostages were seized in Iran in 1979 and Mr. Bush's father, George Bush, in the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
Seven in 10 Americans now say President Bush is a strong leader, including 55 percent of Democrats. That is his highest rating since he became president, up from 54 percent in June.
In the follow-up interviews, several people said they were heartened that Mr. Bush had been turning to seasoned advisers.
"Even though I'm a Democrat, I approve of him," Mrs. Harrison said. "He's doing the best he can, and I'm sure he has a lot of advisers."
Robert Fye, 77, a retired Army officer from Scottsdale, Ariz., put it this way: "As a Republican who voted for him, I haven't always agreed with him but I think he's done a good job. I feel more comfortable with him than I do with many others in the campaign who said that he didn't have any foreign policy experience. He's got advisers and good people working for him."
Not everyone was so confident.
"I need to wait and see how he will handle this as far as being our leader," said Rick Adler, 41, a court clerk in Mineola, N.Y. "This is really the test, and we're going to see what he's made of. It remains to be seen, but for the present time, I approve."
But there are no assurances that Mr. Bush's popularity will persist. His father's peak job approval of nearly 90 percent in early March 1991 after the early success in the gulf war eroded as economic anxieties rose and the immediacy of war faded. His job approval tumbled to 37 percent just before the 1992 presidential election.
The most long-lived increases in public favor were the 30 weeks for President Roosevelt after Pearl Harbor, the 31 weeks for President Kennedy after the 1962 Cuban missile crisis and the 30 weeks for President Carter after the hostages were seized.
Underscoring the degree of commitment, 68 percent of Americans said they believed the United States would go to war.
Eighty-five percent said the United States should take military action against whoever is responsible for the attacks. Seventy-five percent of those people said the action should be mounted even if innocent people were killed. Almost all of them said they would favor going to war with a nation that was harboring those responsible for the attacks.
While majorities of all demographic groups supported using military force, men were more likely to support it than women. Those who lived through World War II and the wars in Korea and Vietnam were the least likely to back military engagement.
Sixty-two percent said they were "very confident" in the ability to capture the people who planned the attacks; 29 percent said they were "somewhat confident."
Despite the wrenching scenes of destruction at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, a majority of those polled said they were not very concerned about a terrorist attack in their own communities.
Still, 74 percent of the respondents said they thought it would be necessary for Americans to give up some of their personal freedoms to make the country safe from terrorists. Eighty-six percent said they favored guards and metal detectors at public buildings and events. Sixty-nine percent said they would be willing to arrive three hours early for a domestic airline flight.
But the public is willing to go only so far. Only 39 percent said they would be willing to allow government agencies to monitor the telephone calls and e-mail messages of ordinary Americans.
Andrea Aguilar, 41, a housecleaner in Petaluma, Calif., said: "I'm prepared for a change of lifestyle and I would be patient with that if the added security would save lives. I wouldn't mind waiting in line to pass through security points. But I don't want the government to go into our personal lives."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Paying the Price: The American Response"Poll based on interviews conducted by telephone Sept. 13 and 14, with 959 adults nationwide. Should the U.S. take military action against whoever is responsible for the attacks?YES: 85%NO: 6%UNDECIDED: 8% Those who said yes to military action: Even if innocent people are killed?YES: 75%NO: 16%UNDECIDED: 9% Those who said yes to military action even if innocent people are killed:Even if it means going to war with a nation that is harboring those respon-sible for the attacks? YES: 98%NO: 0%UNDECIDED: 2% Even if it means many thousands of innocent civilians may be killed?YES: 89%NO: 4%UNDECIDED: 7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARAB AMERICANS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); METAL DETECTORS (77%); INSPECTIONS (75%); AIRLINES (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



437 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1635 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS; 
Where to Get Information: A List of Emergency Numbers and Web Sites

 BODY:
Searching for missing loved ones. Finding a place to stay.
 Trying to get to work. Looking for a way to help. 
 Below are emergency numbers, help lines, Web sites and addresses as well as information on events, closings, transportation and utilities.
Updates are on The New York Times Web site: www.nytimes.com.

POLICE, FIRE AND OTHER EMERGENCY CALLS
911: New York City officials request that 911 be reserved for true emergencies. For nonemergencies, call local police precincts and fire stations or regular headquarters numbers.

New York City Office of Emergency Management: (212) 477-3574 or (212) 477-3598.

INVESTIGATION TIPS

To relay pertinent information about the attacks to investigators, call the F.B.I. at (866) 483-5137 or (800) 331-0075 or the New York Police Department, or make a report at www.ifccfbi.gov.

STATE AND FEDERAL ASSISTANCE

Businesses and individual seeking financial aid should call the Federal Emergency Management Agency at (800) 462-9029.

Affected businesses should also call the Empire State Development Corporation at 1-800-I LOVE NY.

Unemployment benefits:

People who live or work in New York City and are jobless because of the disaster should call the State Department of Labor at (888) 209-8124 .

MISSING AND VICTIMS

To report missing people, call the New York City police at (212) 741-4626 or (866) 856-4167.

For information on missing people, the hot line is (212) 560-2730.

Relatives of missing people may go to the 69th Regiment Armory (Lexington Avenue and East 26th Street) or the New York University Medical Center (First Avenue at East 30th Street).

If possible, bring photos and dental records.

Or, you may call the armory at (212) 889-6862 or 6861.

Police officers' relatives should call (718) 677-8238.

Relatives of city firefighters and Emergency Medical Service workers should call (718) 999-2541.

Port Authority workers' relatives should call (973) 565-5501, -5505 or
-5506.

Pentagon workers' relatives should call (877) 663-6772. Or check a list on the Department of Defense's Web site: www.defenselink.mil/ news/releases.html.

Relatives of other military personnel should call these numbers:

For the Army (800) 984-8523; for the Navy and Marines, (877) 663-6772; and for the Air Force, (800) 253-9276.

Companies at the World Trade Center have these hot lines for relatives of missing employees:

Aon: (866) 256-4154.

Blue Cross Blue Shield: (888) 761-8365.

Cantor Fitzgerald, eSpeed and TradeSpark: (866) 326-3188.

Carr Futures: (800) 755-7620.

Fiduciary Trust Company International: (800) 632-2350, Ext. 22578.

Fuji Bank: (888) 537-FUJI (888-537-3854).

Marsh & McLennan (includes Mercer, Guy Carpenter, Seabury & Smith, and MMC Enterprise Risk): (212) 345-6000.

Morgan Stanley: (888) 883-4391.

Pitney Bowes: (800) 932-3631.

For a more complete list of World Trade Center tenants, see www. nytimes.com

New Jersey families of missing people are asked to report to their local police departments or state police barracks, instead of going to or calling agencies in New York City.

AIRPLANE VICTIMS

Airline hot lines and Web sites for relatives of missing passengers and crew members:

American Airlines: (800) 245-0999, http://www.aa.com.

United Airlines: (800) 932-8555, http://www.united.com and http://www.ual.com.

HOSPITALS

Patient locator, organized by the Greater New York Hospital Association: http://www.gnyha.org.

Click on "Patient Locator System."

VOLUNTEERS

People volunteering to help should report to the Jacob K.Javits Convention Center on 11th Avenue at 35th Street between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. or call (800) 801-8092.

Donations of supplies are no longer being accepted at the Javits Convention Center or at Chelsea Piers.

Anyone able to offer vehicles or equipment should call the City Office of Emergency Management at (212) 477-3574 or -3598.

Volunteer physicians should call (518) 431-7600.

BLOOD DONATIONS

Many blood collection sites have been overwhelmed with donors.

People wishing to donate blood should wait and call later to the Red Cross, the Blood Center or local hospitals.

The Red Cross: (800) 448-3543.

The Blood Center of New York: (800) 933-2566 or check www .nybloodcenter.org.

HOUSING, SHELTERS

The Red Cross has shelters with meals, counselors and nurses.

Manhattan

Bayard Rustin High School at 351 West 18th Street.

Seward Park High School at 350 Grand Street.

Washington Irving High School at 40 Irving Place.

Fashion Industry High School at 225 West 24th Street.

Chelsea High School at 131 Sixth Avenue.

Norman Thomas High School at 111 East 33rd Street.

City School at 16 Clarkson Street.

Junior High School 22 at 111 Columbia Street.

Intermediate School 131 at 100 Hester Street.

Comprehensive School at 240 Second Avenue.

Brooklyn

Westinghouse High School at 105 Johnson Street.

Staten Island

Curtis High School at 105 Hamilton Avenue.

Battery Park City Tenants

Tenant hot line for evacuated residents of Gateway Plaza at Battery Park City: (718) 575-4881.

TOURISTS AND TRAVELERS

Stranded travelers should call the New York City Convention and Visitors Bureau at (212) 484-1222.

CLOSED AND OPEN

All United States financial markets plan to reopen tomorrow.

Schools

All city public schools will reopen at their normal times tomorrow, with these exceptions:

Public School 234: teachers should report tomorrow morning to P.S. 41 on West 11th Street and students should report there on Thursday morning. There will be a meeting for parents from P.S. 234 at P.S. 41 on Friday morning.

P.S. 89 and P.S. 150 will be relocated to P.S. 3 at Hudson and Grove Streets. I.S. 89 will be relocated to the O'Henry Complex on West 17th Street. Those schools will follow the same reopening schedule as P.S. 234.

For details on the High School for Leadership and Public Service, Stuyvesant High School, Murry Bergtraum, High School for Economics and Finance and P.S. 721M at Stuyvesant, call (718) 392-8855 or check www.nycenet.edu.

Universities

The New School classes remain closed but offices are open.

Pace University's Manhattan branch will reopen Wednesday.

New York Law School will resume classes tomorrow.

The Borough of Manhattan Community College remains closed while it is used in rescue efforts. Call this number: (212) 541-0432.

Courts

Employees of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit are asked not to report to work this week. That court and Federal District Court in Manhattan will be closed until further notice. However, the appeals court is making arrangements to hold some oral arguments during the week at the headquarters of the City Bar Association, 42 West 44th Street.

Jurors should not report to any court in the city until further notice. Call 1-800-COURT-NY.

Primaries

New York State primaries are rescheduled for Sept. 25 with runoffs on Oct. 11.

Culture

Broadway shows reopened on Thursday.

The Electric Light Orchestra concert at the PNC Bank Arts Center in Holmdel, N.J., on Sept. 28 is canceled.

The New York Times Arts & Leisure Weekend and "Critic's Choice" Times Talks series have been postponed.

The CMJ Music Marathon and FilmFest has been rescheduled for Oct. 10-13.

Sports

The BNP Paribas Masters, a seniors tennis event, has been postponed.

Nascar's Winston Cup race in New Hampshire on Sunday has been rescheduled for Nov. 23.

Major League Baseball games will resume tomorrow.

NFL games scheduled for this weekend will not be played.

The New York Basketball Classic benefit game, scheduled for today, has been canceled.

Other Events

The 75th Annual Feast of San Gennaro in Little Italy has been postponed.

The annual McGuire Air Force Base air show has been canceled.

MASS TRANSIT

For information on subways, city buses, express buses, commuter trains, toll bridges and tunnels: www.mta.nyc.ny.us/index.html.

For subway and bus updates, call the status hot line at (718) 243-7777 or check the Metropolitan Transportation Administration Web site.

For road, bridge and tunnel traffic reports, listen to WCBS-AM (880) or WINS-AM (1010).

Airports

Call airlines for information.

Subways

Many stations below Canal Street are closed, and some lines have been rerouted or delayed. For details, see the map on Page A21.

City Buses

Service is suspended south of Canal Street in Manhattan. Express buses are not running south of 23rd Street in Manhattan.

Ferries

The Staten Island Ferry has been making only emergency trips.

New York Waterway ferries have resumed operations, except for Pier 11 at Wall Street.

Suburban Trains and Buses

Normal service has resumed on the Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North.

New Jersey Transit has resumed service, except for its lines to Wall Street. There are detours on the Nos. 1, 43, 64, 68, 80, 81, 82 and 86 lines. Instead of ending at Exchange Place, buses will go to the corner of Washington and Montgomery Streets, and will depart from the corner of Washington Street and Columbus Drive.

Information: (973) 762-5100 or http://www.njtransit.com.

PATH's World Trade Center service is closed indefinitely, but other lines have resumed operations.

HIGHWAYS, BRIDGES, TUNNELS

Authorities urge travelers to use mass transportation whenever possible, especially to and from Manhattan.

The Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel is closed.

The Holland Tunnel is open only to emergency vehicles.

Lower Manhattan streets: Most streets below Canal Street are still closed. Plans are being made to open routes to Wall Street by tomorrow.

Battery Park City: access is limited to residents with identification. They should go to Pier 40 near Houston Street. See www.batteryparkcity.org.

Commuter information is also available at www.metrocommute.com

BOATS AND SHIPPING

New York Harbor and parts of the Hudson and East Rivers have been closed to regular traffic.

UTILITIES

Telephone

AT&T residential service: (800) 222-0300; business service: (800) 222-0400.

WorldCom business service: (877) 586-1234; residential service: (877) 892-2839, between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m.

Electric and Gas

Con Edison service: (800) 75-CONED.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); MISSING PERSONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ARMED FORCES (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEB SITES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMIES (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); CITIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); AIR FORCES (63%); PARAMEDICS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); NEWEDGE GROUP (83%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (50%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



438 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE AIRLINES; 
Continental Announces the Layoff of 12,000

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
As losses mounted from the national grounding of air traffic last week, Continental Airlines announced yesterday that it would immediately lay off 12,000 people, or more than 20 percent of its work force, and reduce its flight schedule by 20 percent.
 It was the first major airline to announce layoffs, but airline executives predicted that others would soon follow. 
 Yesterday, Northwest Airlines said that it would also reduce its flight schedule by 20 percent and was reviewing its staffing. 
Both American Airlines and United Airlines, the country's two largest, have already said that they plan to restore only 80 percent of the flights scheduled before Tuesday's attacks. 
Patrick J. Burke, the head of the Continental pilots' union, said that union leaders at other airlines who had been briefed by executives were told to expect staff cuts of 15 percent to 20 percent. 
Gordon M. Bethune, the chairman of Continental, which has major operations in Houston and Newark, said the airline was losing $30 million a day and predicted that industry layoffs would total 100,000 in the coming days.
Continental said that it had experienced a drastic reduction in passenger bookings since it resumed flying after Tuesday's unprecedented grounding of all airplanes around the country. It noted that many corporations, which supply its best customers, have discouraged their employees from flying.
Airlines have high fixed costs that make it difficult to weather a severe downturn. Several executives and industry analysts have warned that the country's biggest carriers could be forced to declare bankruptcy by the end of the year.
The major airlines were hoping that the House would approve a $15 billion rescue plan on Friday. But the bill failed early yesterday morning after objections by Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat of Texas.
Some in Congress are deeply skeptical. "The airlines told us they were going broke long before these attacks occurred, while at the same time giving their executives $120 million in salaries and bonuses," Senator Ernest F. Hollings, a Democrat from South Carolina, said yesterday.
The industry is now lobbying the White House to pressure Congress to act. The White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said yesterday that President Bush was "concerned about the economic health of the airlines."
Airline executives are expected to meet with White House officials and Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta early next week.
Last week, Midway Airlines announced that it was ceasing operations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); LAYOFFS (93%); LABOR FORCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); BONUS PAY (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); TERRORISM (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; PENTAGON BUILDING 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (96%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: LLOYD DOGGETT (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



439 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: PERCEPTIONS; 
Anxiety Knocks the Wind Out of a Once-Brash City

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Everything seemed to be going right.
 The economy in New York City was defying, at least for the moment, the downturn in the rest of the nation, not to mention Wall Street. The real estate market was prospering. The candidates for mayor could barely find an issue or raise a crowd in this confident and contented city, while a poll published one month ago found that fully two-thirds of New Yorkers expected life to be as good or better. 
 And the Yankees were rolling toward the World Series again.
The extent of the physical damage caused by the jet assault on the World Trade Center on Tuesday, not to mention the death toll, has become abundantly clear over the past few days. But the damage caused to the self-esteem of a city that has been riding an eight-year high -- a jagged legacy of this terrorist attack -- is only beginning to come into focus.
There were voices of civic pride across New York as last week drew to a close, speaking for example, of the volunteers along West Street handing out bottled water to firefighters. But this has become a moment for reassessing New York by New Yorkers who may have forgotten that this is a city of severe ups and downs, usually caused by forces beyond its control.
"I've lived to be 60 years old, and I've lived in New York for the past 46 years, and I never thought I'd come to see the day in New York when we were threatened with an attack," said Anna L. Hepburn, a paralegal from Harlem. 
"I'm concerned for the city," said Gary Foster, 42, a public relations official at a biotechnology firm at Rockefeller Center. "I was already concerned with the potential of a severe economic downturn and was waiting for the impact to be felt by the city. I'm sure we will be going through a phase here where we will be inconvenienced. As for the long term, I'm just hoping that this city does not change radically."
Perhaps not radically. But by any measure, this has knocked the wind out of a brash city in ways that became evident even before the first sun set on the rubble of the World Trade Center. One hour after the second tower tumbled, unnerved passers-by just south of Houston Street scattered as a police bomb squad towed away a truck that had been abandoned on King Street.
After that, in first the hours and then the days ahead, every parked, abandoned truck loomed as a potential bomb. The buzz of low-flying military jets or police helicopters inevitably drew anxious glances from pedestrians. The wail of sirens was no longer the white noise backdrop to life in a lively city.
The subways, in their growing dysfunctionality, offered a daily, crowded reminder of the anxiety that has settled over New York. On a jostling shoulder-to-shoulder A train, a young mother, coiled and tense, admonished her young son, who had slipped two feet away. "I want to be able to see you," she said, the edge in her voice capturing the expression on everyone's face.
In TriBeCa, Heather Higgins, the president of a public policy foundation and the mother of three young children, said that what took place just blocks south of her home was shocking but was in some ways a cost of living in a city as proud and high profile as this one. 
"As a lifelong New Yorker, I'm unshaken in my commitment to live here," she said. "We always knew that a terrorist threat existed, and if there was a place that would be desirable to attack in the United States, New York would probably be Location No. 1 and Location No. 2. If you're not willing to live with those risks, I don't know why you would live in New York."
Still, in this environment, is it any wonder that a bomb scare at Grand Central Terminal produced such a spasm of anxiety across New York? Or that Mr. Foster now has to display his employee ID card whenever he enters an elevator at Rockefeller Center? Or that so many New Yorkers spoke about avoiding the Empire State Building, or Bloomingdale's, or riding a subway that might take them under the East River?
These days, more than a few New Yorkers are wondering if a fear of terrorism will take the place that crime once occupied in the city's consciousness.
Claire Wachtel, an executive editor at William Morrow & Company, said her 15-year-old daughter had informed her that she would no longer ride the subway at all. A New York University graduate student, Dan Link, 29, who grew up in Rochester, said that when he got an e-mail message from a friend the other day asking if he was "around," he assumed, incorrectly as it turned out, that he was about to learn that a friend had perished. "You want to know how my perception of New York has changed?" Mr. Link asked from his home in Brooklyn, where ash from the crumbling trade center floated across the river and coated his flower boxes. "There's an example."
This is more than a matter of the city's view of itself. New Yorkers, it would seem, remain as self-congratulatory and chauvinistic as ever, and understandably proud of how they have absorbed this crisis. But many wonder how this city will be able to retain that allure that transformed it, in less than a decade, from a symbol of failed urban policy to a place that people sought to visit and to make a home.
"I think a lot of those people who came here because they felt that living in New York is as safe as living in any other city, they're not going to come anymore," said Donald Suggs, 40, who works at a housing transition facility for people who are H.I.V. positive. 
Through it all, there remains a spirit of confidence that while life in New York is not going to be in this decade what it was in the last, it will, nonetheless, endure. "I think New York will rebuild," said Paul R. Beirne, a money manager. "I think the economy will be able to absorb this, both here locally as well as nationally. And you know, it certainly makes me nervous, and a little scared, but there's a resilience. I'm optimistic." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (83%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BOTTLED WATER (77%); TERRORISM (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); HIJACKING (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (72%); MAYORS (72%); AIRLINES (70%); PARALEGALS (63%); HELICOPTERS (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (57%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



440 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Appearances; 
Fire and Spice

BYLINE:  By Mary Tannen 

 BODY:
So you've had it with running-in-the-surf fragrance ads. You're finished with ozone-spiked, surgically scrubbed, gender-free scents so devoid of sexuality that if you spray one on before hopping into bed, your boyfriend has to turn on the light to see if there's a girl beside him or a load of fresh laundry.
 Then lace up your bustier and hook on your garter belt, girlfriend, and get ready for the orientals, those rich, moody brews with something suggestive and dirty at the heart. 
 Oriental: Right away P.C. prissies take issue with the perfumer's term for this category of scent. Oriental is an outmoded ethnocentric concept referring to Asiatic societies where, Europeans imagined, passions ran closer to the surface than in their own chilly, restrained civilization. Think Matisse's lush Moroccan paintings of underclothed odalisques on their divans. 
Think Shalimar, created in 1925 by Jacques Guerlain. Roja Dove, Guerlain's in-house perfume historian and enthusiast, says Shalimar was the first oriental, and every subsequent scent in that category must refer back to it. Vanilla is the soft heart, balanced by orris, the dried root of iris, worth three times its weight in gold. Shalimar was inspired by the story of the Mogul emperor of India, Shah Jehan, who was so crazy in love with his wife that when she died he built the Taj Mahal as her tombstone. She, of course, never got to see the magnificent Taj, but she did get to walk through Shalimar, the private garden the shah gave her as a token of his love. The cloaked form of the shah is evoked by the tapered crystal bottle with the lapis turban stopper; his undying passion, by the rich, soft but potent perfume that conjures visions of illicit afternoons lingering into dusk.
Guerlain is throwing fresh advertising money at this old classic, hoping to lure a new generation to the scent that scandalized the world of their great-grandmothers when it was said that there were three things a lady must never do: smoke cigarettes, dance the tango and wear Shalimar.
Shalimar never lost its power to shock. At Harvard during the flannel-shirted 1970's, there arose the legendary Shalimar Six: a fearless band of coeds wearing high heels, pearls and the most unapologetically female fragrance in the world.
Shalimar began to seem positively demure compared with the take-no-prisoners orientals that exploded onto the scene in the mid-1980's, when Opium, Obsession, Youth Dew and the notorious Giorgio were among the top five favorites in the United States. Fortified with a spritz or two of one of these, a 100-pound weakling could clear out an entire elevator.
Reaction to an oversaturation of this fab four may have sparked the flight from orientals to the wash-on-the-line choices of the 1990's. A downturning economy and growing fear of AIDS may have also contributed -- but who can chart the vagaries of fragrance fashion? The fact is, orientals are staging a comeback, and in the intervening years they have undergone an attitude adjustment.
In our postcolonial enlightenment, we realize that the mysterious Orient lies within. Emphasizing the spiritual over the sexual, Estee Lauder named its new fragrance Intuition. Lighter than older orientals, Intuition is structured not in the traditional hierarchy of top, middle and base notes but in a loose cooperative arrangement of accords that fade in and out. Sparkling mandarin orange and grapefruit play off rich rose and earthy amber. The stopper floats above the transparent asymmetrical bottle like a pod attached to the mother ship. The ad shows a smiling (perhaps naked) Elizabeth Hurley bathing in an amber afterglow of enlightenment.
Nina Ricci, the house that captured the post-World War II spirit with the classic L'Air du Temps, is hoping to express the mood of a new century with Premier Jour. Premier Jour is a floral with a light oriental feeling that comes from sugared almond, a confection distributed in France at weddings and christenings. The name "first day" was taken from Marcel Proust: "like an open window, bringing into my closed and darkened room the warmth, the dazzle, the languor of a first fine day." The formula combines the innocence of sweet pea and gardenia, the zing of yellow mandarin, the darkness of musk and the danger of a sharp slice of metal. The bottle, designed by Fabien Baron, is one frosted cylinder set slightly off center atop another. The ad shows the model Kristina on her back, staring languorously across an outstretched arm, a scrap of flesh-colored nightie barely concealing her breast.
The Intuitive woman has found contentment, probably from sex but maybe from a good yoga class followed by a nice bath. The Premier Jour woman has found sexual fulfillment and is looking to take the next step toward ceremonies with sugared almonds. They seem like timid sisters compared to the woman relaunching venerable Shalimar. In the photo by Annie Leibovitz, the model Fernanda Tavares stands naked to there, her long hair just barely covering her nipples. With her Eurasian-looking cheekbones and smoldering eyes, she could be a Tartar princess, frank and defiant, daring you to take on the scandalous great grandmother of all orientals.
There's this hotel near the Bois de Boulogne where you can book for an afternoon. . . . 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Martha Camarillo)(Model: Dawning. Stylist: Avena Gallagher. Prop stylist: Sebastion. Makeup: Sergio Corbachio for Awake. Hair: Kazunori for Warren Tricomi.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); HISTORY (68%) PERFUMES 

COMPANY: GUERLAIN SA (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (83%)

PERSON: GUERLAIN, JACQUES; TANNEN, MARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (54%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



441 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1964 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE ORGANIZATION; 
Old War Escalates on a New Front: The Trail of Relentless Martyrs

BYLINE:  This article was reported and written by Judith Miller, Benjamin Weiser and Ralph Blumenthal. 

 BODY:
The airborne assault on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon is the culmination of a decade-long holy war against the United States that is escalating methodically in ambition, planning and execution.
 At the same time, the trail of terror -- much of it, officials say, either directly organized or inspired by Osama bin Laden -- shows a remarkable coherence in structure and operations that is frustrating government efforts to extinguish the threat. 
 "This is the same old war that came to a new battlefield," said James K. Kallstrom, the former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation office in New York, who oversaw major terrorism investigations in the 1990's.
The hallmarks of that old war are now being scrutinized by investigators with new urgency. They include the recruitment of willing martyrs and their indoctrination and training, the planting of agents in target countries years in advance, the preparation of false identity documents, the provision of money and credit, and the creation of a compartmentalized structure for security. 
Above all, officials say, the new holy warriors are persistent. They learn from failure. And they revisit targets until their mission is accomplished. 
Much current anxiety centers on whether this round of terror is over. One ominous pattern is the "one-two punch" that the jihad network strives to deliver. The plotters of the World Trade Center bombing in 1993 intended to follow one devastating attack with another on other New York landmarks. And Middle Eastern intelligence officials say that a foiled bin-Laden conspiracy to destroy hotels and holy sites in Jordan at the millennium was to have been followed by a second wave of explosions.
Beyond that, administration officials who most closely monitor Mr. bin Laden's activities warn that the next round of terror could even involve weapons of mass destruction. Satellite pictures of dead animals on test ranges show that militants have been experimenting with various poisons at a terrorist training camp that Mr. bin Laden runs in eastern Afghanistan.
His group tried to buy chemical weapons and nuclear components in the mid-1990's, according to testimony in the embassy bombings trial earlier this year.
The evolution of guerrilla tactics coupled with an elusive infrastructure have repeatedly stymied campaigns by successive administrations to eradicate such terrorism. But the latest attacks have convinced American policy makers that they must now destroy the infrastructure as well as the terrorists themselves.
While the terrorists have shifted from bombs on the ground to airstrikes, their methods appear largely unchanged. Most have evolved from the training provided by Mr. bin Laden's network of nearly a dozen camps in Afghanistan which have produced the foot soldiers for every terrorist strike prosecuted in New York since the first World Trade Center attack in 1993.
In last week's attacks, for example, investigators said the terrorists relied on small cells of four or five people to hijack planes and crash them into crowded targets. As they have done before, the cells appear to have received support from a larger network on the ground in the United States and elsewhere.
That use of such cells is characteristic, testimony showed in the recently concluded embassy bombings trial in New York. And the choice of the World Trade Center as a target could almost have come off the pages of a terrorist training manual that prosecutors introduced earlier this year in that trial.
On Page 12, under "missions required," a little-noticed section of the manual lists "blasting and destroying" embassies and "attacking vital economic centers."
One of Mr. bin Laden's top aides has also written that small cells help ensure the safety and secrecy of operations. Agents communicate through the use of "dead drops" like spies, and each has discreet, designated responsibilities. These include conducting surveillance of targets, planning an operation and carrying out an actual attack.
On Thursday, Attorney General John Ashcroft characterized the attacks as "orchestrated, coordinated assaults" that were "conducted in a technically proficient way."
Officials said this week that the World Trade Center attacks may have been carried out by Mr. bin Laden working closely with other terrorist groups. But counterterrorism officials have long maintained that Mr. bin Laden's organization actually embraces like-minded militant Muslim groups, notably the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, which helped assassinate President Anwar el-Sadat in 1981.
Officials said that some of the hijackers identified by the F.B.I. this week had lived in the United States for years. That also fits the pattern. One of Mr. bin Laden's former top aides told the F.B.I. in 1997 that Mr. bin Laden had planted hundreds of terrorists, known as "sleepers" or "submarines," who would lie low for years until they were activated. 
The aide, Ali A. Mohamed, a former American Army sergeant who pleaded guilty to terrorism charges last year, also said that the United States was hampered in its efforts to stop terrorism because the profiles it uses to identify potential terrorists are flawed.
"Mohamed implied that trained terrorists don't order their people to blow things up," an F.B.I. document says. "Terrorists are trained and then they act."
One characteristic of a bin Laden operation is advance surveillance and meticulous preparation. In case after case, according to United States court documents and interviews with intelligence officials, Mr. bin Laden's followers have devoted months, even years, to laying the groundwork for their attacks.
Ali Mohamed said that the planning for the 1998 bombing of the American Embassy in Kenya, which killed 213 people and wounded thousands, had begun five years earlier, when he first went to Nairobi for Mr. bin Laden in 1993 to scout out potential bomb targets, including the American Embassy.
Middle Eastern intelligence officials have also said that in preparing to strike the embassy in Nairobi, militants in one of Mr. bin Laden's Afghan camps constructed a wooden model built to the scale of the embassy building to study how to attack it.
The millennium bombing plot to blow up tourist and holy sites in Jordan dates back to May 1998, according to Jordanian prosecutors. One of the plotters spent more than a year using a forged gold dealers' license to buy sulfuric acid and 5,200 pounds of nitric acid in quantities small enough to escape attention. 
In the latest attack, hijackers who took over American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston were said to have repeatedly cased the airport before the hijacking, according to published accounts. One of the hijackers spent four years in pilot school in Florida learning how to fly airplanes. He was one of those who the F.B.I. said helped commandeer that plane and crash it into the first twin tower.
"The evidence indicates," Mr. Ashcroft said on Thursday, "that flight training was received in the United States and that their capacity to operate the aircraft was substantial."
Jihad operatives have long favored symbolic targets. In addition to the first strike on the World Trade Center in 1993, there was a failed plot later that year involving more than a dozen conspirators to blow up the United Nations, the Lincoln and Holland Tunnels, and the Federal Building in Lower Manhattan, which houses the F.B.I. In the millennium plot, recent testimony has shown, Los Angeles International Airport was one of the group's targets. 
The use of jets recalls the aborted 1994 conspiracy led by Ramzi Ahmed Yousef to blow up as many as a dozen American jumbo jets as they flew over the Pacific. Mr. Yousef, who stayed in one of Mr. bin Laden's guest houses in Pakistan, and was convicted in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, later lamented to F.B.I. agents that he had lacked the money and explosives to bring down the twin towers.
Several members of Mr. bin Laden's group, Al Qaeda, have been pilots. Before joining Mr. bin Laden, Ali Mohamed had worked briefly as a security adviser for Egypt Air. And another, Ihab M. Ali, an Egyptian who drove a taxi in Orlando, Fla., underwent flight training in Norman, Okla. 
Ihab Ali's "pilot training and international travels concerned efforts to assist in Al Qaeda's terrorist activities," federal prosecutors charged in an indictment last year.
Mr. bin Laden's form of terrorism is a study in persistence. In January 2000, officials say, his terrorists failed to blow up the Navy destroyer Sullivan in Yemen because their overloaded dinghy filled with explosives sank as they launched it toward the American ship. Ten months later, the same group used a sturdier boat to attack the destroyer Cole, killing 17 sailors. 
It also transcends geographic, religious, and ideological boundaries. In the current investigation, officials suspect that the conspirators come from several terrorist groups based in different countries who were working together. Historically, Mr. bin Laden has forged alliances with a cross section of jihad groups, some of which were traditional rivals, like Egypt's Islamic Group and the Egyptian Islamic Jihad. 
In an indictment, the government has said that Al Qaeda acted as an umbrella organization for jihad groups in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Somalia, Eritrea, Djibouti, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bosnia, Croatia, Albania, Algeria, Tunisia, Lebanon, the Philippines, Tajikistan, Azerbaijan, Chechnya and Kashmir.
The government has also said that there was a "working agreement" among Mr. bin Laden, Iran and the National Islamic Front of Sudan to "work together against the United States, Israel and the West." The American roots of Mr. bin Laden's jihad, officials say, lie in part in a now-defunct Islamic office on Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn -- the Alkifah Refugee Center, which served as a recruiting station for the Afghan war against the Soviet Union. Even before the Soviets withdrew from Kabul in 1989, Mr. bin Laden had begun expanding his holy war to other parts of the world, including the United States.
It was the 1993 arrest of Omar Abdel Rahman, the charismatic, blind Egyptian sheik in the plot to blow up New York landmarks, that partly inspired Mr. bin Laden's rage toward the United States, the government has said.
As in previous attacks, Mr. bin Laden also appears to have followed his usual practice of recruiting a group of operatives all but unknown to American intelligence. 
Steven Emerson, a terrorism expert who has called for a crackdown on terrorist networks in this country, said that none of the names had come up in his extensive research on many of the 5,000 militants who have received training in Mr. bin Laden's camps. 
"That is not surprising," Mr. Emerson said. "These people are the cannon fodder."
Counterterrorism officials have worried about the challenges of the new battlefield for years. "It's not like the old Mafia-type cases," said one senior F.B.I. official in a speech in 1997, "where you pigeonhole somebody and you say he's a member of this group.
"You tend to figure out who they may be associated with, and all of a sudden they're talking to all of the different groups at a conference where they are all bound again by the jihad, by their religious beliefs and extremism. 
"And almost all of the groups today, if they chose to, have the ability to strike us here in the United States. They're working toward that infrastructure."
The official who made those comments, John P. O'Neill, who oversaw the F.B.I.'s investigation into Mr. bin Laden, retired last month to become director of security for the World Trade Center. After the first plane rammed the trade center last week, he called a close friend to say that he was on the street and was all right.
He has not been heard from since.

GRAPHIC: Photos: KENYA, AUG. 7, 1998 -- Planning for the United States Embassy bombing reaches back at least five years. (Associated Press); YEMEN, OCT. 18, 2000 -- The United States Navy destroyer Cole was blown up in Aden, killing 17 sailors. Officials suspect Osama bin Laden. (Agence France-Presse); NEW YORK, SEPT. 11, 2001 -- The World Trade Center attack followed a decade-long holy war against the United States that involved planting agents in target countries years in advance. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); NEW YORK, FEB. 26, 1993 --The first attack on the World Trade Center was to be followed by more strikes, but an informant foiled the plan. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Osama bin Laden is believed responsible for 10 years of terrorism. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (74%); MISSING PERSONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%) BIN LADEN, OSAMA; MILLER, JUDITH; WEISER, BENJAMIN; BLUMENTHAL, RALPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); YEMEN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KENYA (79%); JORDAN (69%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



442 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS IN BRIEF: NONFICTION 

BYLINE:  By Allen D. Boyer 

 BODY:
 THE CEO OF THE SOFA.
By P. J. O'Rourke.
Atlantic Monthly, $25.
 In "The CEO of the Sofa," a grab bag of essays, the conservative political humorist P. J. O'Rourke swings cheerfully into action against fin-de-siecle decadence, alternative rock, the war on drugs, Earth Day, Las Vegas, the United Nations and former President Bill Clinton -- and then, for a change of pace, examines India's Grand Trunk Road, the existential subtext of "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas," and "It Takes a Village," by Hillary Rodham Clinton. O'Rourke complains of midlife woes, but nothing has softened his wicked sense of fun. He reports on a Montessori School game, Tug of Peace: "Each side takes hold of one end of a rope and tries to help the other side across a line." The usually grumpy commentator who mocks the New Economy and middle-class entitlement programs reveals himself as a blunt Midwestern populist. "If George W. Bush and Al Gore had grown up on my block in Toledo, Ohio," O'Rourke writes, "they wouldn't have gone to Yale and Harvard. They would have gone to Kent State. Easy to picture them there circa 1970 -- Al picking up on the hippie thing a little late, ordering his bell-bottoms from the Sears catalog, and George W. in a real National Guard unit, shooting Al." Allen D. Boyer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); LITERATURE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) BOYER, ALLEN D; O'ROURKE, P J 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (52%) OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (67%) INDIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: CEO OF THE SOFA, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



443 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
Disasters Leave but a Small Footprint on the Markets

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
HORRIBLE as Tuesday's terrorism was, it is not likely to have a lasting impact on the overall level of the stock market.
 That sanguine assessment can be derived from systematic studies of equity markets, including a widely cited one that appeared in 1989 in the Journal of Portfolio Management. The study was written by three economists -- Lawrence H. Summers, James M. Poterba and David M. Cutler. (Mr. Summers, who since has served as Treasury secretary, is now president of Harvard.) They found "a surprisingly small effect of noneconomic news" on the stock market. 
 To reach their conclusion, the professors focused on momentous noneconomic events of the previous five decades. To choose them, they turned to almanac listings of important events from 1941 through 1987. They eliminated from consideration any entry in this chronology that The New York Times did not carry as its main article and that the business section of The Times did not report as having affected investors. Forty-nine noneconomic events survived their winnowing process.
The professors found very modest stock market impact in the first day of trading following these 49 crises. The average absolute percentage change of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index (or the S.& P. composite, as it was once known) was just 1.46 percent. Because the average on all other days between 1941 and 1987 was 0.56 percent, the net effect of the biggest noneconomic events was to add an average of less than 1 percent to the market's one-day volatility.
The professors also reached the same conclusion via a different route. Instead of focusing on the biggest news events over five decades, they focused on the 50 days over that period with the largest percentage changes. They then searched for news that could have accounted for the moves, but they were largely unsuccessful. Indeed, they noted that "on several of these days, The New York Times actually reported that there were no apparent explanations for the market's rise or decline."
Their results suggest that market dynamics are more inscrutable than is assumed by those who expect last Tuesday's events to prompt a deep bear market.
To be sure, the professors' study focused on one-day reactions. Nevertheless, similar conclusions were reached by studies that focused on longer-term reactions. Ned Davis Research of Venice, Fla., for example, found that the stock market was 2.3 percent higher, on average, six months after the outbreak of the 28 biggest crises from 1940 to 1998. For only 9 of the 28 occasions was the stock lower a half-year later.
Ned Davis Research conceded that its conclusion was somewhat subjective. But its list of crises included all the obvious suspects -- Pearl Harbor, the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon, the Oklahoma City bombing and so on. And in at least one respect, its database was similar to the one the professors compiled: the average absolute one-day change after the 28 events in the firm's study is statistically indistinguishable from that of the 49 events used by the professors.
Of course, a 2.3 percent rally does not justify a major shift in your asset allocation, especially considering the transaction costs. So the results from Ned Davis Research are not, in my opinion, strong enough to transform bears into bulls. But, by the same token, those results should be enough to prevent last week's bulls from now becoming bears.
In other words, as momentous as the terrorism was on an emotional and political level, its enduring market impact is likely to be so modest that your investment strategy today should be no different than it was a week ago.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "After A Jolt'Stocks often climb in the six months after a crisis begins. The Dow industrials rose in 19 of 28 such periods since the beginning of World War II. Graph show the percentage change in the Dow Jones industrial average six months after the start of a crisis. (Source: Ned Davis Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); TERRORISM (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHRONOLOGIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BONDS (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); ASSASSINATION (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); AIRLINES (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (87%); JOHN F KENNEDY (75%); RICHARD NIXON (55%) HULBERT, MARK; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; POTERBA, JAMES M; CUTLER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



444 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
In a New Time of Global Turmoil, Greenspan's Experience Reassures

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
IT has been a common line on Wall Street and in Washington: Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, should have gotten out while on top last year, when the economy was still booming and his legacy as the embodiment of prosperity was secure.
 Good thing he didn't. 
 Peering into the economic and financial chasms that are byproducts of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, it is clear that markets are in for a rough ride and that policy makers will need skill and luck to avert a global recession.
It is also clear that many of those policy makers lack authority or credibility.
In Japan, the government has proved utterly ineffectual in coping with what amounts to a decade-long recession, and the performance of the quasi-independent Bank of Japan has been, if anything, worse. 
Consumed with establishing its inflation-fighting credibility as Europe prepares to start its common currency, the new European Central Bank appears blind to the growing economic risks among its member countries, and has stubbornly resisted aggressive monetary easing this year.
And in the United States, the Bush administration's team is green.
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, a former chief executive of Alcoa, has never established himself with the financial markets. His blunt, unscripted style has won him plaudits in some quarters, but it has also gotten him into consistent trouble. Early in his tenure, he unsettled markets by deviating from well-established language used by the government to keep the dollar strong. He focused on issues, like workplace safety within the Treasury Department, that seemed far removed from the pressing matters of the day. This month, he offered economic forecasts lower than the administration's official projections. 
As for President Bush, he has never seemed comfortable with or particularly engaged in the mechanics or theory of finance and economics. Certainly, he is less fluent in the subject than his predecessor, Bill Clinton, who displayed an intuitive grasp of how arcane issues like cross-border capital flows shaped everyday lives for better and worse. Anyway, Mr. Bush has other things on his mind. That leaves Mr. Greenspan. 
The Fed chairman's reputation has taken a bit of a beating this year as the economy has decelerated and the stock market gains of recent years have turned to losses. He has been blamed for raising interest rates too much last year, and for not cutting them fast enough this year. He has been criticized for subscribing to and promoting the new-economy paradigm in the face of evidence that the boom of the late 1990's was nothing more than a bubble. But he still has a breadth of experience and a reserve of credibility that no one else in the world can match when it comes to an economic crisis. 
"I don't think he on his own can save us from recession if one is coming," said Janet L. Yellen, a former Fed governor who also was chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton White House. "But I think it is very reassuring to have someone at the helm as experienced and respected as he is." 
It is no doubt a mistake to think of Mr. Greenspan as an all-powerful seer and savior. He missed the onset of the last recession, in 1990, and he was no more prescient about the slowdown that began at the end of last year. The ammunition at his disposal is limited to manipulating two short-term interest rates, and although his word is the final one in the Fed, he is not the only voice. 
But he was there in 1987 as the stock market crashed. He learned about the vulnerabilities of the banking system in the late 1980's and early 90's, when he nursed American banks back to health after they suffered huge real estate losses. He learned how a shock like the outbreak of the Persian Gulf war in 1991 could ripple through an economy through factors like oil prices and consumer confidence. And he learned during the global financial crisis of 1997 and 1998 how seemingly isolated problems in one part of the world could threaten even the strongest of economies. 
Mr. Greenspan has not been seen publicly since the terrorist attacks. After being hustled home from Switzerland on an Air Force jet, he holed up in his Fed office. He has no doubt spent the time delving into the condition of the markets, taking soundings from business executives and consulting with his counterparts from around the world. It is the kind of challenge that Mr. Greenspan has spent a career preparing for.
"We're very fortunate that he decided not to quit while he was ahead," Ms. Yellen said. "This is probably more important to him than whether he went out at the peak."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HIJACKING (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); TRENDS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%); ALCOA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (55%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



445 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Teams Are Going Over Their Security Measures 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Officials of college sports organizations and professional football and baseball leagues have new concerns about security at athletic events, although those worries were prompted by discussions among themselves and not by the Bush administration.
 Sports officials decided after Tuesday's terrorist attacks in New York and near Washington to cancel virtually all major sports events scheduled for this weekend. Even as they were doing so, they were thinking of how to beef up security for coming games, officials said. Meanwhile, the White House told them in telephone conversations that it was encouraging American institutions to return to a state of normalcy, implying approval for going ahead with games this weekend, they said. 
 Among the sports organizations that spoke with the Bush administration after the attacks were the National Football League, Major League Baseball and the National College Athletic Association.
Cedric Dempsey, president of the N.C.A.A., got a call from Karl Rove, a senior adviser to President Bush, on Wednesday, said Jane Janowski, a spokeswoman for the N.C.A.A. Rove said that the federal government planned to hold a day of remembrance on Friday, and that it wanted the country to return to normalcy. There was apparently no mention of security.
But that same day, the 20 members of the N.C.A.A.'s executive committee held a teleconference in which they discussed security and other issues that might affect member schools, such as travel logistics.
"What we have said is that we have encouraged them all to ensure they have plans in place for facilities, for operations, for security procedures," Janowski said. "Certainly, when you're talking about large stadiums, they all do have plans in place, and I'm sure they're reviewing them."
The N.C.A.A. left the decision for whether to go ahead with this weekend's games to individual conferences. All Division I-A conferences decided to postpone or cancel their games, though some schools with smaller football programs were sticking to their original schedules.
"As Thursday unfolded, it became obvious that we should postpone all competition," Kevin Weiberg, commissioner of the Big 12 Conference, said Friday. "We will try next week."
The game between the University of Nebraska and Rice University was one of this weekend's matchups. Nebraska had sold out the 85,000 seats at its stadium, one of the largest in the country. But the crowd size also prompted Nebraska to speak to local and state law enforcement officials last week about stadium security, Weiberg said.
"I don't know the advice they received," Weiberg said. "I presume they related to security measures around stadiums and things of that kind. We gave encouragement to our universities to go through those steps."
The Big 12 has several other universities with large stadiums, including the University of Texas, which usually sells more than 83,000 tickets a game, and Texas A&M, which usually sells 75,000 a game.
But some universities outside the conference, like Michigan and Tennessee, have even larger seating capacities, with stadiums that can accommodate more than 100,000 people.
Officials with the N.F.L. also spoke with the Bush administration after the terrorist attacks. The White House did not mention any security concerns, but encouraged a return to normalcy, as it had with the N.C.A.A., a league official said.
N.F.L. officials also spoke with the F.B.I., which said that much of the agency's resources would go toward investigating the attacks and protecting the country's economic and transportation infrastructures, said Greg Aiello, a spokesman for the league. The bureau did not advise the league whether or not to play this weekend, he added.
But league officials eventually decided not to play partly because they feared that the F.B.I. would be forced to divert some of its resources to ensuring safety at the games, Aiello said.
When play resumes next Sunday, the N.F.L. could take unprecedented security steps, league and team officials said, including a larger than usual police presence at some stadiums, snipers placed inside some of the complexes, the use of bomb-sniffing dogs and thorough bag searches of everyone who enters.
The Baltimore Ravens, for instance, will add 30 police officers to their usual detail of more than 50 at their eight home games this season, said Art Modell, the team's owner.
"I think fans seeing a number of members of law enforcement is very comforting to them at this time," he said.
Bud Selig, the commissioner of Major League Baseball, spoke with President Bush on Wednesday and received the same message the other sports organizations had been given. Some baseball officials consulted with the F.B.I. about security measures. In the end, Major League Baseball decided to postpone play until Monday.
Baseball officials were concerned about "safety, travel and security," said Dave Howard, the Mets' vice president for business and legal affairs. As for security in the future, Howard said, it "will be tighter and more extensive even than what we've had in recent big-series contexts."
Selig has asked teams to institute more stringent security measures, such as having an increased police presence, inspecting stadiums daily before gates open and removing some unattended vehicles from parking lots.
"We want to demonstrate to our fans that we're taking this very seriously and want to insure a safe and secure environment," said Kevin Hallinan, Major League Baseball's senior vice president for security and facilities. "We're confident we can do that." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION (94%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TERRORISM (77%); HIJACKING (77%); APPROVALS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); AIRLINES (71%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (90%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



446 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Before & After; 
Awakening to Terror, and Asking the World for Help

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
OF all the offers of support that Americans received last week from friends and acquaintances abroad, one of the most remarkable came from the editors of Le Monde, the French daily newspaper often noted for wariness of the United States. "We are all Americans," the paper declared in a banner headline.
 That sentiment may last only as long as the mourning for the victims of the terrorist attacks, or until the United States strikes back at those responsible. But just as World War II and the cold war drew the United States out of isolationism, and Iraq's invasion of Kuwait prompted the Americans to assemble an international alliance to repel it, the fight against terrorism seems likely to require global cooperation of a sort that the Bush administration previously dismissed. 
 It is difficult to imagine President Bush being in a position to plausibly declare victory against terrorism if a crisis of confidence in the United States and Europe forces already tottering economies into a deep recession, for example. Similarly, the administration may find it hard to deny aid to the wobbly economies of potentially important allies in the battle against terrorism, like Indonesia, the largest Muslim nation. 
"The terrorists obviously understood the American influence in the world is multidimensional," said Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative. "They targeted the Pentagon, symbolic of our military might. But they also targeted our economic power when they hit the World Trade Center. We have to respond in a multidimensional way.
"This is a new enemy, characterized by intolerance and closed societies," Mr. Zoellick said. "We are marked by openness, and our response to this should be a fresh breath of tolerance around the world."
The Bush administration was developing a reputation for being less international than parochial. President Bush dropped out of at least six international agreements, including accords intended to ban germ warfare and control global warming. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill emphasized that the United States had a skeptical attitude about coordinating currency policy with allies or arranging financial bailouts for developing countries that mismanaged their economies or squandered previous aid packages from the West.
That approach could change in coming weeks. Wealthy countries will meet in Washington later this month to consider ways of bolstering the global economy, and coordinated interest rate cuts are already under discussion, administration officials said. Mr. O'Neill, who reluctantly backed an International Monetary Fund rescue package for Argentina last month, will face fresh pressure to help that country, as well as Brazil and Turkey, a strategic ally that straddles Europe and the Middle East.
The administration last week encouraged Megawati Sukarnoputri, Indonesia's new president, to proceed with a planned eight-day visit to the United States even though her visit will come before travel or security arrangements have returned to normal. Administration officials said they were also preparing to offer her some economic concessions.
THE fact that Indonesia has a shaky democracy, a fragile, quasi-capitalist economy and regional rebellions led by Islamic militants has suddenly made it a top foreign-policy priority.
"Now that the Bush administration sees that it needs the rest of the world, it will have to temper its unilateral instincts on many issues," said C. Fred Bergsten, head of the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Military threats tend to compel economic cooperation. The advent of the cold war prompted Western nations to liberalize trade rules and to found the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, lending agencies that sought to rebuild Europe. The Persian Gulf war prompted another flurry of international diplomacy that quickly spilled over into the economic realm. Shortly after the victory against Iraq, the United States, Japan and European nations completed the negotiations that led to the creation of the World Trade Organization. At the same time, the United States sealed a free-trade agreement with Canada and Mexico.
The war against terrorism could require even more intermingling of political, military and economic interests. Terrorism is borderless and the enemy is both omnipresent and evanescent. To fight it, the United States will need the goodwill of its allies to arrange overflight and basing rights for the military, and it will rely heavily on other nations' intelligence services. Which means that the United States may have to reciprocate.
France, Germany and even Switzerland have been more eager than the United States to force banks to monitor international money transfers by criminals, for example. But Washington's attitude seems likely to change as it tries to stop terrorists from financing their international network.
THEN, too, only economic engagement will transform the environment in which terrorists thrive, analysts say. Osama bin Laden and others prefer to live where people are poor and governments have failed, Afghanistan most notably. Military action may take out individual terrorists, but won't alter the conditions that help to produce them. 
"I don't see how you can really tackle the problem without considering the reaction in the Arab street," said Robert Hormats, a managing director of the investment firm Goldman Sachs. "This is a war you've got to fight on the economic front."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2001, American servicemen stood guard at the corner of Chambers and West Streets in Lower Manhattan. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); COLD WAR (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HIJACKING (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RECESSION (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); CURRENCIES (65%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (53%) KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%); TURKEY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



447 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: IN EUROPE; 
A Pause To Ponder Washington's Tough Talk

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
After offering expressions of support immediately following this week's attacks on the United States, European allies are showing signs of backpedaling.
 The NATO allies have said they could support some military action. But now the caveats are beginning to roll in, making clear that the terror attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon will not translate into an unconditional writ for American retaliation. 
 Particularly as talk in Washington has grown tougher, the allies have begun showing signs that they want a carefully thought out plan to combat terrorism, not a burst of military might that turns out to be brutal and ineffective.
Many politicians here have begun distancing themselves from Washington's saber rattling. While President Bush has repeatedly described the terror attacks as "acts of war," Europeans officials are going out of their way to avoid such language.
On a radio program the Belgian foreign minister, Louis Michel, said the European Union was "on watch" and "mobilized." But he added, "We are not at war."
In France, Prime Minister Lionel Jospin has cautioned that there is no "war against Islam or the Arab-Muslim world." Moreover, he signaled that France would not automatically support military action. "Our humane, political and functional solidarity with the United States," he said, "does not deprive us of our sovereignty and freedom to make up our own minds."
Even the French left, often thought of as reflexively anti-American seemed to soften. The daily Le Monde ran a column headlined "we are all Americans." But it is clear that the continent remains wary of a gung-ho, simplistic military retaliation, it sees America capable of.
Since Wednesday, when the NATO alliance for the first time invoked its mutual defense clause, strongly suggesting it would offer military support if the United states should ask for it, European leaders have been stressing non-military options. 
On a visit to Russia Thursday, The French foreign minister, Hubert Vedrine, argued for a broad antiterrorism plan that might incorporate military action, but did not overlook financial and logistical networks as well as political efforts. The next day the German defense minister, Rudolph Scharping, also urged a "measured" response.
Even Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has offered Mr. Bush his full support, insisted on Friday that any retaliation "must and will be based on hard evidence," and his spokesman has said that the support does not amount to a "blank check."
The invocation of the mutual defense clause does not actually obligate NATO countries to do much. Any decision to launch joint strikes would require further council deliberation, as would a decision to place national forces under NATO command. For most, the real decision will come when America maps out its plans and asks for help.
In the meantime, even Russia, which took the highly unusual step of issuing a joint statement with NATO, has made clear since then that the United States and its allies should not rely on Central Asia to stage any retaliatory strikes against Afghanistan.
"I see absolutely no basis for even hypothetical suppositions about the possibility of NATO military operations on the territory of Central Asia nations," Mr. Ivanov said.
Newspapers across the Continent are also urging the Americans to use restraint. The French daily Liberation called for "extreme severity against identifiable culprits" but cautioned against "blind vengeance."
An editorial published today in The Guardian urged Mr. Bush to consider diplomatic coercion, painstaking investigation, interdiction of terrorist funds and economic punishment before "sending his enormous bombs." 
"There is another way," the newspaper said. "It is less dramatic, less visceral, more statesmanlike."

GRAPHIC: Photo: France's prime minister, Lionel Jospin, qualifies French support. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); POLITICS (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (66%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (51%) DALEY, SUZANNE; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



448 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS; 
Sending a Message by Moving Past the Paralysis of Fear in the Markets and in Life

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
"The only thing we have to fear is fear itself, nameless unreasoning unjustified terror, which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance."
-- Franklin D. Roosevelt,
PUB-DATE: March 4, 1933
 IN and of itself, the economic impact of the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon last week will be large but not debilitating. 
 Imagine the long-feared major earthquake on the San Andreas Fault in California, or a storm worse than Hurricane Andrew that plows through downtown Miami or New Orleans. The toll in lives and property damage could be comparable to what was experienced last week.
The difference would be in peoples' minds. Such a natural disaster would be seen as beyond the control of any man. There would not be fury at those responsible for the disaster, nor would there be frustration about the evident difficulty of mounting effective reprisals, as there is now.
As it is, rebuilding from this disaster will provide a needed stimulus for the economy. Another lift may come from Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, who many expect to lower interest rates again.
But while belief in Mr. Greenspan's apparent omnipotence buoyed consumer confidence and spending earlier this year, his role has been diminished. The important decisions now will be made by the political and military leaders.
When American stock markets reopen this week, not having traded since the planes slammed into a symbol of American capitalism, the price changes will indicate the level of fear felt by investors, foreign and domestic.
Last week European stock markets fell sharply on Tuesday after the attack, then stabilized on Wednesday and Thursday. But prices plunged again on Friday, falling to new lows after one Bush administration official talked of "ending" countries that harbored terrorists.
"Today Europe is getting very concerned that retaliatory action taken by the United States may have a destabilizing effect," said Byron Wien, a strategist for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, speaking from Paris on Friday.
If fear of terrorism paralyzes consumers and businesses, then the economy will fall sharply, and the economic impact of this disaster will be far greater than that of even the worst earthquake. Maintaining confidence that things will not get much worse, while at the same time seeking to hunt down the terrorists, is the difficult challenge facing the president.
At the end of last week there were e-mail messages circulating widely calling on every recipient to buy stock on Monday. "Imagine what a slap in the face of terrorism it would be if the American markets were to stabilize or even rise when they reopen," one message said. "Can you think of a stronger message we could send to those who would seek to destroy our way of life?"
Well, yes. The stronger message would be to live our lives as we would have lived them had this never happened, as if we did not fear a repeat. That would minimize the economic impact of the terrible event last week. But it would also mean that families would willingly, even eagerly, board jets for California vacations. 
If the fear persists, far fewer will be willing to do that. Risking money on an investment is not the same thing as risking the lives of your children to let them visit Disneyland. Now, as in 1933, fear can paralyze. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); HIJACKING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BONDS (72%); HURRICANES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); AIRLINES (64%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); INTEREST RATES (52%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CREDIT 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



449 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Witnesses toCrises, Urging Caution

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
ALBERT H. GORDON not only lived through Pearl Harbor, the attack to which last week's terrorism has been so often compared; he was then running a major Wall Street firm, and he vividly remembers the shock to the American psyche.
 "For some reason, I went to work that Sunday -- and I couldn't believe it when I got the news," said Mr. Gordon, then a co-head of Kidder, Peabody & Company, housed at the time in the New York Stock Exchange building. He received distressing updates from a client, the Hawaiian Telephone Company, and then, in grim recognition that the attack meant war with Japan, he said, "I came home to my family." 
 Mr. Gordon, who turned 100 in July and was active at Kidder until General Electric acquired it in 1986, has firsthand Wall Street experience that may be unsurpassed. 
Time after time, he watched the stock market rebound from declines after shattering news. The comeback was modest after Pearl Harbor, but the Dow Jones industrial average was slightly higher a month after the attack than a day after it, Dec. 8, 1941. From a low in 1942 -- the bottom was when the United States won the battle of Guadalcanal -- the market more than doubled, to a peak in mid-1946.
But Mr. Gordon and several other Wall Street veterans interviewed after the terrorist attacks last week expressed doubts about the reliability of the historic pattern. They wondered whether the United States had indeed entered a new era, not the computer-driven economic one that some bulls had proclaimed before the Nasdaq crash that began 18 months ago, but one in which implacable political foes create perpetual uncertainty. 
"This crisis is a much greater magnitude" than Pearl Harbor, said Mr. Gordon, who still trades for his personal account. Moreover, he said, it is "so unknown as to how it's going to be handled."
John C. Bogle, 72, founder of the Vanguard Group of mutual funds, made a similarly sober assessment. "There's never been anything like this," Mr. Bogle said, adding that while the Pearl Harbor attack was devastating, the news nevertheless came from a remote territory in the Pacific, and an identifiable enemy was immediately held responsible.
By contrast, the destruction of a prominent, physical part of Wall Street itself "is really unimaginable," he said. Although the records of investors have been preserved through redundant computer systems, he suggested that the blow was likely to do significant psychological harm.
The closest parallel to last week's attacks, Mr. Bogle said, was probably the Cuban missile crisis of October 1962, when the market sold off on President John F. Kennedy's announcement of the Soviet buildup, only to bounce back within a few days as tension dissipated, and to jump 30 percent over the next six months.
"We were really on edge, but there was no panic," Mr. Bogle said.
John Herzog, chairman emeritus of Herzog Heine Geduld and head of the Museum of American Financial History in New York, recalled the missile crisis as his worst professional moment. "My thoughts were of being pretty scared, pretty frightened," said Mr. Herzog, 65, who was then trading over-the-counter stocks for his family-owned company, which Merrill Lynch acquired last year. "I was sort of paralyzed, and then the news came that the ships had turned around."
But even that turmoil, along with Pearl Harbor, could prove to have less permanent and damaging effects than last week's attacks, Mr. Herzog said. "This is Pearl Harbor plus," he said. "For Americans, this is a devastating realization that the world is much smaller than we thought. It hit Wall Street. It hit the Pentagon. It's real now."
Alan C. Greenberg, 74, chairman of the executive committee of the Bear Stearns Companies, said he was reluctant to discuss the latest attacks or his recollection of earlier crises for fear of appearing more concerned with making money than was seemly when human casualties were being pulled from the wreckage. He said "prices went up the day we opened" after the assassination of President Kennedy, but that the current situation was different from previous ones.
Charles Geisst, a professor of finance at Manhattan College and author of "Wall Street: A History" (Oxford, 1997), called last week's assault on the financial pillars of capitalism probably "an act of war" that reminded him of the outbreak of World War I, when the New York Stock Exchange shuttered itself for almost four months.
Although Professor Geisst called it a "new sort of aggression" in which the terrorists could have financed their plan by selling the market short, he said war tended to be a favorable climate for business and for stocks. He cautioned, however, that the government might have to invoke special powers to prevent what he called "totally inappropriate" financial behavior.
William N. Goetzmann, who teaches finance at the Yale School of Management and recalls being wheeled to a bomb shelter in a carriage filled with canned food during the Cuban missile crisis, said an early selloff of stocks seemed likely as people sought to raise "portable" cash. "But there's no empirical evidence to suggest that large political shocks are a bad signal for stock market investment," he said.
On the other hand, David Rockefeller, 86, the retired chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank, expressed less concern about the long-term implications of last week's attacks than did other investment veterans.
"Pearl Harbor was the beginning of a major conflict with a major country," Mr. Rockefeller said. This time, "everyone is very shocked, but it doesn't seem to me it ought to have lasting political or economic implications," he added.
"Our country is strong and we have to live through these things," he said. 
Those who expressed opinions about how investors might best approach the market now were unanimous in urging caution, avoiding precipitous decisions at an emotional time when the economy is already teetering on recession. It is probably a bad idea, they said, even to buy oil or gold stocks or to sell airline or insurance issues, as was commonly espoused in recent days. "In the past, whenever I try to time things, I've been dead wrong," Mr. Goetzmann said.
Mr. Bogle, who advocates a long-term approach, said the market had already fallen sharply from its peaks of last year and might be less vulnerable to a terrorist-induced plunge. And remember, he added, that even if you bail out at what appear to be favorable prices, you may miss large profits later by not getting back in.
"Doing any kind of market timing is not a one-decision thing," he said. "It's a two-decision thing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Albert H. Gordon, above, formerly of Kidder, Peabody, and other veteran investors. Clockwise, David Rockefeller, former chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank; John C. Bogle, founder of Vanguard; and Alan C. Greenberg, chief of Bear Stearns. (Agence France-Presse, Rockefeller; Associated Press, Greenberg; Tim Shaffer for The New York Times, Bogle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BONDS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (72%); HAWAIIAN TELCOM HOLDCO INC (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO; VANGUARD GROUP INC; BEAR STEARNS COS; HERZOG HEINE GEDULD 

TICKER: HCOM (NASDAQ) (71%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (71%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (73%) HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; GORDON, ALBERT H; ROCKEFELLER, DAVID; BOGLE, JOHN C; GREENBERG, ALAN C; HERZOG, JOHN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



450 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE MILITARY; 
Pentagon Drafts a Shopping List For Waging a War on Terrorism

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
As the Bush administration debates options for a broad, new kind of military campaign against terrorism, the Pentagon is describing what it needs to fight it -- better intelligence, more cruise missiles and special forces, all to be financed with billions in emergency spending.
 Combined with President Bush's decision on Friday to authorize the military to call up 50,000 reservists, mostly for defending the nation, the Pentagon spending outline illustrates how it will sustain a long-term offensive against terrorism. 
 The draft request for military spending proposes to buy more unmanned surveillance drones and high-technology reconnaissance aircraft, to enhance defenses for troops against chemical and biological weapons, and to speed the conversion of two Trident nuclear submarines to carry cruise missiles. And it projects payments for troops and for the reservists to stay on higher alert. 
Military officials say they are prepared to strike with cruise missiles, manned bombers and, potentially, the special forces of any of the services as soon as the president gives the order, something that would require firm intelligence on the location of those who plotted and abetted the attacks on Tuesday.
But every indication is that the administration is developing a long-term offensive against an enemy whose soldiers hide in caves, but whose patrons are governments with central banks, power grids and organized armed forces. 
"It's all very complicated," said one senior general involved in the planning. "If there was a quick and easy solution to this, you would have seen it by now." 
"There is no campaign plan yet," said one senior officer at the military's European Command. 
The Pentagon said its budget request finances "those costs directly associated with the need to respond to the aftermath of the terrorist attacks" and "provides funds for enhancing America's capability to wage war against terrorism."
In its desire not only to provide more money for the Pentagon but to weave new international coalitions to attack terrorists in their bunkers and their bank accounts, Pentagon and administration officials describe a military buildup to rival that of President Ronald Reagan.
But officials already note the challenge of balancing the public's desire for immediate military action and the need to carefully arrange diplomatic coalitions, economic measures to squeeze the terrorists and a concerted military response.
"We're not going to fight this war with large arrays of soldiers on the battlefield," another senior general said. "We're not gearing up to punish. We're gearing up to eradicate the terrorism. And that's a different ball game."
The armed services are already identifying what weapons, precision munitions and fuel they would need, officials said. But they are still waiting to learn their share of the billions of dollars in emergency budget money proposed by President Bush and approved by Congress. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); WAR ON TERROR (91%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



451 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: IN BEIJING; 
Waiting Nervously For Response

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
In President Bush's declared epic battle between good and evil, China clearly hopes to be counted among the good guys.
 Most people here reacted with horror and compassion to the deadly attacks in the United States, although some hotheads -- especially some young men who write on the Internet -- said the United States had it coming. 
 Once the magnitude of the crimes sank in here, the government's expressions of sympathy became less restrained and President Jiang Zemin, in a friendly phone call to President Bush, made a vague promise of support for a global attack on terrorism. 
But Chinese leaders would have to take a big gulp before endorsing American military strikes abroad. They are waiting nervously to see just how Washington chooses to retaliate, worried that an overly robust campaign could run up against Chinese strategic interests. 
"China is put in a very awkward situation," said Jin Canrong, an expert on American Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. 
China's quest for modernization and global economic ties remains the top priority, Mr. Jin noted, and that means cultivating good relations with the United States and being counted as a friend during the current crisis. 
China's leaders are also very much aware that their own country is a potential target of radical Islamic terror. There is already suspicion that small numbers of Uighur Muslim separatists in the western region of Xinjiang have received training or aid from the Taliban. 
At the same time, China is fearful of America's global domination and might, and generically opposes virtually all military intervention in sovereign countries. That stance was reflected in the vehement opposition to NATO's air war in Yugoslavia. 
From a geo-strategic stance, Mr. Jin noted, China cannot cheer any expansion of the American military presence in the vicinity of Central Asia, as would occur if American troops entered Afghanistan. 
China's support would come easier if Washington made a serious stop at the United Nations before it struck. "It would be best if the United States seeks United Nations endorsement first," said Shen Dingli, deputy director of American studies at Fudan University in Shanghai. "The Chinese would certainly give their support." 
But even if the United States and NATO retaliate without United Nations approval, Mr. Shen said, the Chinese government is not likely to play the kind of angry, obstructive role it did in the Kosovo conflict. "I don't think China will denounce the actions, as long as the United States presents good evidence linking its targets to the crime," Mr. Shen said. 
China felt threatened by the Kosovo war because, in the eyes of strategists here, it was intervention into internal affairs on cloudy "humanitarian" grounds, and carried out without seeking United Nations approval to boot. Leaders here feared that a precedent was being set for future Western intervention in a conflict over Taiwan, or perhaps Tibet. 
But the latest attacks on American soil present a different case, many intellectuals here say, in part because of the extreme nature of the provocation and in part because of the partial convergence of Chinese and American interests.
China's main approach to controlling the smoldering separatist movement in Xinjiang, in addition to keeping a chokehold internally, has been to cultivate relations with bordering Muslim states like Kazakhstan, offering commerce and friendship in return for their control over Chinese Uighur exiles. In an apparent effort to repeat that strategy of co-optation, China has even developed modest commercial and political contacts with the Taliban, though it has not granted formal recognition. 
Still, experts here say, Chinese leaders would not mind seeing the fall of a destabilizing group like the Taliban. But the leaders will never say this out loud, because this would run up against China's long-held principle of "noninterference" as well as to invite reprisals.
In lively interchanges on Web sites, some writers, mostly anonymous, have gloated at America's comeuppance and one military expert, a co-author of a hawkish book called "Unlimited War," Qiao Liang, said that while Tuesday's dead and injured were victims of terrorism, "they are also the sacrificial victims of the United States government's policies." 
But many intellectuals have condemned those who, as one letter posted by a group of Beijing liberals put it, have "taken joy from suffering." The group of scholars and editors said the gleeful responses underscored the urgent need for a thorough overhaul of the systems of propaganda and censorship that have often bred anti-Americanism. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); TALIBAN (77%); HIJACKING (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); RELIGION (65%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ;JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



452 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: IN ISLAMABAD; 
Pakistan Antiterror Support Avoids Vow of Military Aid

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
Pakistan today pledged its "full support" in the hunt for those responsible for the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, but carefully avoided any specific commitment to provide the United States with military assistance in an operation against terrorist bases in neighboring Afghanistan.
 Pakistan's military-led government also said it would "continue to act in conformity with its support of the state of Afghanistan," an expression of backing for Afghanistan's militant Islamic Taliban government that suggested how torn Pakistan is between the United States' demands and the sympathies of many of its people. 
 By avoiding any specific promises of military support for the United States and taking a nonconfrontational line with the Taliban, the Pakistani government was clearly seeking to cleave to some tenuous middle ground.
President Pervez Musharraf fears a violent backlash in Pakistan if he follows Saudi Arabia's example after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990 and allows American troops free rein on his territory, officials said.
He also faces the prospect of a direct confrontation with the Taliban, who harbor the terrorist suspect Osama bin Laden and who today threatened "a massive attack" by its Islamic warriors if Pakistan offers the United States any assistance. 
In response to American requests to use Pakistan as a launching pad for a military attack on Mr. bin Laden and his followers, an official statement today said Pakistan would comply with a United Nations Security Council resolution passed within 36 hours of the attacks in New York and Washington that called on all nations to cooperate in tracking down those responsible. But Pakistan declined to go beyond that formalistic undertaking.
The Bush administration is pushing for more unequivocal assistance. The Pentagon views Pakistan's cooperation in a military campaign as crucial because of the absence of any other American bases on Afghanistan's borders and because access to the landlocked, mountainous country from anywhere else would be arduous or impossible. 
Although General Musharraf theoretically has unlimited powers as a military ruler, he is constrained in practice by strong centers of support for Islamic militancy in the Pakistani officer corps and in the hard-line Islamic groups that have proliferated across the country in the last decade.
Whichever way he moves, General Musharraf, who took power in a coup almost two years ago, could hardly be assured of the undivided support of this deeply unstable nation. 
Pakistan, a poor country of 140 million people awash in debt and Kalashnikovs -- and now nuclear armed -- has a growing number of destitute Muslims who have embraced the radical Islam of the Taliban as their only source of hope. Some of them also sympathize with the violent anti-American campaign of Mr. bin Laden.
Pakistan's backing for the Taliban, which continued despite its harboring Mr. bin Laden after previous terror attacks against American targets, has been crucial to the survival of the government in Kabul.
While educated Pakistanis with Western sympathies embrace the United States, many people here recall and resent the fact that it was the United States that first backed and financed the Islamic radicals in the 1980's, using them as a vehicle to fight Soviet forces in Afghanistan. The United States' No. 1 enemy, they point out, is in a sense one of the United States' own creation. 
At a news conference today, Foreign Minister Abdul Sattar refused to answer a barrage of questions about Pakistan's willingness to agree to American proposals that emerged from days of intensive discussion between the two nations, calling them "details" that remained to be settled.
The statement distributed at the news conference said General Musharraf had met with top cabinet and security officials today for fours hours of "incisive discussion," after a similarly long meeting on Friday with the country's top generals.
The statement said today's meeting had "reached consensus on the policy of full support to the world community in combating terrorism." It added, "Consistent with Pakistan's policy of support for the decisions of the Security Council, the government will discharge its responsibilities under international law." 
The foreign minister said it was not necessary for Pakistan to respond in detail to the American demands, since no plans he knew of had been set for a military attack.
But his comments, including an insistence that Pakistan did not intend to wage war against its neighbor or commit troops outside its own borders, implied that General Musharraf intended to strike a careful compromise, granting Washington at least some use of Pakistan's airspace and military bases, while limiting its cooperation so as not to be seen as a full-fledged partner in a military campaign. 
The Bush administration has told the Islamabad government, under the implied threat of economic and other penalties, that it wants the use of Pakistani airspace and military airfields, as well as full access to the unique store of intelligence about Mr. bin Laden's operations in Afghanistan that has been gathered by Pakistan's military intelligence agency.
Washington has also demanded a cutoff of fuel supplies, an end to the use of Pakistani banks as conduits for clandestine money movements by terrorists and the elimination of truck convoys that provide much of the food and other supplies to Afghanistan's civilian population.
But Foreign Minister Sattar said today that Pakistan would continue "to exchange views with the government of Afghanistan in a spirit of friendship and fraternity."
He dwelled at length on Pakistan's warm relations with the "Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan," the formal name adopted by the Taliban.
The foreign minister chose that friendly tone despite a warning from the Taliban, issued through its embassy in Islamabad, that "the possibility of a massive attack by our holy warriors cannot be ruled out if any neighboring country offers its ground or air bases to U.S. forces."
The Pakistani ambivalence posed a clear problem to the Bush administration: how to mount the large-scale military operation that many believe would be needed to hunt down an elusive enemy -- Mr. bin Laden and his followers constantly move around Afghanistan's deserts and mountains -- without a secure land base in the region.
One possibility seemed to be that American troops and supplies would be staged through Pakistani airspace and airfields on their way to building bases inside Afghanistan. 
Another deep problem is this: Might winning the cooperation of Pakistan lead to the destabilization of the country, which detonated a nuclear bomb in 1998, and its possible takeover by the very radicals the United States is trying to suppress or eliminate?
The specter of regional instability was underscored today when Iran, which already harbors more than a million Afghans who have fled almost two decades of war, said it was bolstering its military and police forces along its long frontier with Afghanistan and closing the border to head off a new influx of refugees. The announcement came even as many residents of Kabul, the Afghan capital, began packing up in anticipation of an American strike. 
Although Foreign Minister Sattar refused to go into details of what, if anything, had been agreed with the United States, he appeared to be setting limits to Pakistan's role. At one point, he entered what sounded like a dissent to American references to "war." 
"I have not said at any time that Pakistan is going to be participating in a war against any country," he said. At another point, he said Pakistan's role would be strictly domestic. "Pakistan does not expect in any way to participate in any military operations beyond our borders," he said. 
If Pakistan seems ready to be obdurate about the Taliban, it could be because it believes that the United States, on this score, is hardly in a position to condemn Pakistan.
At a crucial moment in 1996, days after the Taliban overran Kabul in a display of brutality, the Clinton administration decided to seek friendly ties with the Islamic movement. The plan was abandoned after the Taliban began oppressing women, but American diplomats continued to say until the bin Laden terror attacks became a focus of American policy that the Taliban might be the best government Afghanistan could hope for after a generation of conflict.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pakistani guards checked vehicles in Torkham on the Afghanistan border on Friday. The United States demands that Pakistan close the border. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TALIBAN (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); RELIGION (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); KUWAIT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



453 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Can American Sports Ever Get Back to Normal?

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY 

 BODY:
The nation is in mourning and has shut down most of its games. After the first wave of mourning, people must gravitate back toward some semblance of normalcy, or else the terrorists have really won something. Baseball resumes its season tomorrow, with football returning next weekend, but what are the implications after a weekend nearly devoid of organized sports? How bad has it been without rushing into stadiums to root for the good guys against the bad guys? Could we learn to do without some of this organized aggression? Or all of it?
 "I would suggest that sport goes back to ancient civilization, to people who wanted to excel and compete with other human beings," said Paul Tagliabue, the commissioner of the N.F.L., who wore No. 33 and led Georgetown in rebounding long before Patrick Ewing. 
 "Trauma doesn't change that," Tagliabue added, citing the horrors of World War I, World War II, "including the Holocaust," and Vietnam, yet, he noted, American sport continued to grow through the 20th century.
This attack is the most shocking blow ever directed at the United States itself. Everybody has felt visceral pain 
On Tuesday, Jeff Wilpon, the president of the minor league Brooklyn Cyclones, watched from his 40th-floor office in Midtown as the second airplane hit the World Trade Center. He still has a tension headache.
Wilpon had no argument with calling off the rest of the playoffs in the New York-Penn League. The Cyclones had won the first game, but they insisted Williamsport share the championship.
"We would have liked to jump around in the soda or the Champagne," Wilpon said, "but I didn't think anybody would be in the mood for baseball."
Instead of playing a game, Wilpon sent an e-mail message urging acquaintances to light a candle and wave a flag at 7 p.m. Friday. People's instincts have been good. Shut it down. Be quiet. Mourn.
Only a week ago there was this superbuffet of sports -- the United States Open of tennis in the virtual shadow of the twin towers, pro football opening all over the United States, college football and Nascar and soccer on the front burner, hockey cranking up, and the gigantic form of Michael Jordan hunkering down, chin on fist, like The Thinker, pondering a comeback. Then it all changed.
This weekend some people will say, "I need a game to get my mind off this horror," but Tagliabue and his players understood the inappropriateness of playing. Can the players ever go back and hit each other just as hard?
"The competition on the field will be just as hard," Tagliabue said, "but it may be different off the field."
Tagliabue said he was impressed with the flexibility of Greg Ellis, a defensive end with Dallas, who was initially pushing for playing today. 
"Greg said he was very strongly influenced by three groups of players from his rival teams," Tagliabue said, citing New York, Philadelphia and Washington. "He found himself giving them emotional support, and I guess that will change the way they see each other off the field but not on it."
The N.F.L. players were right to shut it down. I have no problem with high school games going on for a few friends, parents and graduates. They were not cluttering up the public's brains for four hours, as college games do. The interim will end soon enough. Starting tomorrow, people may seek a few hours of diversion. Will Bonds retain his groove? Who will win the wild card in the National League? Then next weekend: can the Jets and the Giants get untracked?
As the gates open, sport may be vulnerable on a few fronts. 
The first is logistical. If airlines get serious and install trained security agents, travel becomes more difficult for officials and news media members and fans who hurtle about on dawn flights, red-eyes, e-ticket connections, curbside check-ins. But Tagliabue notes, "We operate on private charters," plus the N.F.L. has until the end of the week to sweat out the details.
The second question is economics. Up to now, sports has relied on a perpetual rising tide of salaries and sponsor fees and ticket prices and luxury-box fever. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, so warm and capable in these ghastly days, may not have the time left to pretend he has a mandate to spend billions of taxpayer dollars for stadiums.
Tagliabue was intensely respectful of last Tuesday's tragedy, but he professed not to worry about any economic impact.
"My feeling is that when the public is in a mood to spend, it spends on both schools and stadiums," he said. 
The third question is the mood of big-time sport. We all have built it up into this grotesque monster, with caterwauling mascots, ear-splitting sound systems, pompous coaches, bombastic commentators, megalomaniac superstars, screaming jet plane flyovers and ominous fireworks that allegedly have something to do with patriotism, plus fans sticking out their painted bellies on frigid December days, shrieking for their guys to break the legs of the other guys.
Could we learn to live with less bravado? You bet. But let's not act as if running and throwing and hitting are lesser forms of life than producing cigarettes or jacking up the price on gasoline. If the stock market is open, if the schools are open, if the strip joints and coffee bars and movie theaters and tattoo parlors are open -- all the diverse pursuits in our complicated, brawling, cacophonous, layered, fascinating democracy -- then sports have the right to open their doors for business, too.
After a week when simple peanut butter and jelly sandwiches sustained brave rescue workers, pretentious restaurants are not apologizing for their existence. Neither should sports.
Nothing against the players and the races and the games themselves, but it took a tragedy and a few days of spiritual silence to raise the question: Do we really need all this manufactured animosity, all this tension, over a contest between two sets of athletes?
One thing we have discovered in the last sobering week is the connection among a lot of us. Police officers and firefighters and construction workers and paramedics, who may have once blended into the backdrop while we searched for a Starbucks or a cash machine, are suddenly the princes and princesses of this city.
Our priorities have changed. We will get back to some semblance of normalcy. We will need our games, but will we need the boom and the bang and the cheap hatreds and the shallow passions that seem to go with them? Can sport survive an infusion of sober dignity? 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Yankee Stadium message board. (Steve Berman/The New York Times); At Yankee Stadium, flags flew at half-staff for the victims of the terrorist attacks, and security was heightened. (Steve Berman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); TENNIS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); SOCCER (73%); HOLOCAUST (68%); WORLD WAR I (68%); NASCAR RACING (62%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM 

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%) VECSEY, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001 



454 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10; AFTER THE ATTACK: PORTRAITS OF GRIEF: THE VICTIMS

LENGTH: 3243 words

HEADLINE: Still Alive in the Hearts Of Those Who Loved Them

BYLINE: These profiles were written by Diane Cardwell, Glenn Collins, David M. Halbfinger, Winnie Hu, Andrew Jacobs, Dean E. Murphy, Lynda Richardson, Janny Scott, Daniel J. Wakin and Joyce Wadler.

 BODY:
The official number of deaths in the destruction of the World Trade Center stood yesterday at 190, and the medical examiner has identified only a few dozen victims; almost 5,000 are listed as missing. Here are glimpses of some of those lives.

RAYMOND R. YORK
'He Always Was My Hero'
 Raymond R. York spent nearly two decades fighting blazes and loving the New York Fire Department when a shoulder injury 18 months ago forced him into light duty. But he found a second calling, teaching children about fire safety at the Fire Zone at Rockefeller Center. There, he was ''Fireman Ray'' to the youngsters whom he captivated.
 But on Tuesday, he learned of the World Trade Center attack from a television crew that was doing a story on the Fire Zone, jumped onto a nearby fire truck and headed downtown. After traffic held him up, he hitched a ride on an ambulance and reached the Fire Department's command post at the trade center.
 ''We're so proud and we just want everybody to know what a great guy Ray was,'' his wife, Joan, said. ''Everybody's saying, 'He's a hero, he's a hero.' He always was my hero. Now the world knows he's a hero.''
 She described her husband as a man in love with life, a man who insisted on flying the flag. ''He was a Little League coach, he was a scout leader -- when it came to his kids, he was there for everything,'' she said. That included building an ice skating rink in the backyard of their Valley Stream, N.Y., home when his son, one of four children, wanted to learn how to skate.

NANCY MUNIZ
Improving Self, and Others
 Her son, now 8, was born with a developmental difficulty and could not walk at first. But Nancy Muniz had taken a course in massage therapy and supplemented the therapy he received through his school with some of her own. Now, his aunt Ada Muniz said, he walks just fine and ''everybody says he's real intelligent.''
 ''We both had a real interest in helping others, and in helping to better ourselves,'' she added.
 Toward that end, Nancy Muniz, who was working as an administrative assistant at the World Trade Center, liked to watch Oprah Winfrey's show and to read self-help books. She would also get together with Ada for the occasional spirit- and body-toning yoga class.
 The two sisters even tossed around the idea of starting a physical therapy business together. ''But on account of circumstances,'' Ada Muniz said, ''I never got a chance to pursue it.''

JACK D'AMBROSI
Hooking the Big One
''Fishing, fishing, fishing.''
 That was what Karen D'Ambrosi said her husband, Jack, liked to do most when he wasn't at work, or helping out at church, or coaching one of his two daughters in soccer or basketball. Luckily, he had a friend with a lake on his property a few miles away from the couple's Woodcliff Lake, N.J., home, so almost every weekend, from April to October, he would cast a line. His best catch came this past summer, a beautiful 32-pound striped bass. (''Or was it 32 inches?'' Karen wondered. ''I don't know. It was big.'') She even has a picture of him with it.
 ''He would come back from fishing trips loaded with bags and bags of fish and fish fillets,'' she remembered, laughing, ''And he would just give it away, up and down our street. So everywhere we'd go, all over town, there would be people thanking him for the fish, you know, saying, 'We just had a barbecue, Jack, it was great.' ''

KATIE MARIE McCLOSKEY
Simply Awesome
 Even in grade school in South Bend, Ind., Katie Marie McCloskey and Cherese Djakiewicz were best friends, and somewhere along the way -- maybe it was at Indiana University together -- they both began sharing a dream: to move to New York City. And so, when Cherese moved to Manhattan a couple of years ago, it was inevitable that Katie would follow. It took a while, but Katie finally arrived to share Cherese's apartment three months ago. Six weeks ago Katie found a job on the 97th floor of 1 World Trade Center, staffing the computer help desk of Directfit Inc., rushing to the aid of employees.
 Now her sisters, Leslie and Julie, her brother, Noah, and her father, Richard, are in Manhattan searching for her. The other night, they discovered Katie's journal in Cherese's apartment. ''She wrote 'I made it!' and that she loved it in New York,'' said her mother, Anne. Actually, Katie's exact words were that she had found ''an awesome job in an awesome place in an awesome city.''

KALYAN K. SARKAR
Building Bridges and Family
 The idea of constructing things for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey was so fundamental to Kalyan K. Sarkar, a 53-year-old civil engineer, he would have found the destruction of two skyscrapers unimaginable. ''He is a man who spent his life building -- bridges and tunnels and just about anything the Port Authority put up,'' said his son Kishan, who was looking forward to his father's birthday party two Saturdays from now.
 The family finds some hope in the fact that Kalyan really knew buildings. He phoned his wife, Anarkali, from Tower 1 to explain that he and 12 of his co-workers were trapped on the 64th floor, the elevators were sealed, and they were headed to the stairs. Then he was cut off. Kishan, a computer programmer in New Jersey, is grateful that his father asked him to leave work early Monday night to come to their home in Westwood, N.J., to help his father with some Web site work. ''I was lucky to be there,'' he said.

SHREYAS RANGANATH
Bollywood and Nan
They call Bangalore the Silicon Valley of India, and when the city, in southern India, became a hot place for high-tech enterprise several years ago, Shreyas Ranganath, 26, threw himself into the world of software design. ''For him, it became an addiction,'' Manoj Baalebail, a longtime friend, said. ''He had a great love for software.''
 Last month, that love brought Shreyas to New York on a three-month project for Marsh & McLennan, on the 97th floor of 1 World Trade Center. Mr. Baalebail, who works for the same consulting company, put Shreyas and another software designer, Shashi Kiran Kadaba, up in his Hackensack home, where they spent their evenings cooking elaborate Indian meals or watching Hindi films. ''He appreciated Hollywood movies, but he had a great taste for Indian movies.'' Monday night, the men shared a feast to celebrate the birthday of Krishna, the Hindu god. ''It was a wonderful dinner we had,'' Mr. Baalebail said. ''I just don't want to think of it as his last.''

L. RUSSELL KEENE III
'I Know Just Where He Is'
L. Russell Keene III, a 33-year-old equities analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, was such an avid sportsman that he once hiked through New Zealand for two solid months. ''He has plenty of stamina to survive,'' said his wife, Kristen, who is offering him more than just spiritual support. The other day Kristen, who lives in Westfield, N.J., was escorted by Union County sheriffs to the disaster site outside 2 World Trade Center. Instead of standing there offering respectful witness, ''I wanted to go dig him out,'' she said, ''but they wouldn't let me. I know just where he is.'' Two other employees from Bruyette escaped from an elevator jammed near the lobby, and reported that Russell and 15 others were alive inside. Then the building collapsed. And so, while Kristen and other Bruyette relatives tried to lobby the rescuers to dig near the elevator, she remembered the man she met six years ago in Ocala, Fla., saying simply: ''I loved him from the start.''

JOHN F. ISKYAN
The Surprise Party
John F. Iskyan got up regularly at 5 a.m., rode the train in from Wilton, Conn., and was at his desk in the World Trade Center by 7 a.m. He would return home at 7 or 8 p.m. ''Everything John did, he researched it, he studied it, he looked hard at it,'' Bob Keeling, a brother-in-law, said yesterday. ''He didn't want to do it half-baked.''
 John Iskyan was competitive and loyal, Mr. Keeling said. He played high school lacrosse in Manhasset and became an avid skiier and hiker at St. Michael's College in Colchester, Vt. He joined Cantor Fitzgerald out of college and worked his way up to partner. After the 1993 trade center bombing, Mr. Keeling said, John disliked the building. But he would not leave the firm.
 On the Saturday before last, he held a surprise 40th birthday party for his wife, Margaret, at the Old Town Hall in Wilton, with about 50 friends and family members, a two-piece band and a lot to eat. He had started planning the party a year ago, Mr. Keeling said. Even the Iskyans' children, Peter, 12, and Carolynn, 9, kept the secret.
 ''It was a great night,'' Mr. Keeling said. ''John had done such a beautiful job. And it thrilled his wife.''

DAVID RICE
Turning Things Around
 David Rice was the student with the grade point average of less than 2, who was voted most likely to succeed in high school. He was constantly in trouble. He would do things like rent a warehouse in Oklahoma City, hire a rock band, charge $10 a head and make thousand of dollars before the police broke up the party.
 Still, as a teenager in Oklahoma City, he read biographies of Donald Trump and told his family that that was the kind of entrepreneur he would be. At age 31, David was an investor in bonds at Sandler O'Neill & Partners, in the south tower. ''He drove his clients crazy but they loved him to death,'' says his younger brother, Andrew. ''He was a pistol.''
 His life was marked by huge turnarounds. He had hit bottom in his early 20's from alcoholism and drug use. He dropped out of college. Then he began his recovery. He became a Fulbright scholar in Zimbabwe and South Africa. He earned a master's degree from the London School of Economics. Last February he transferred to New York from Chicago, where he had lived for 10 years.
 ''He was very real,'' his brother says. ''He wasn't perfect but he was so wise for his age.''

FREDERICK KUO JR.
Part of Church's Soul Is Gone
At the Community Church of Great Neck, Frederick Kuo Jr. was always at the center of everything. His parents had also been active there and so he just grew up with it. ''He poured a lot of everything he has into the church,'' said Fred Kuo, the oldest of Frederick's four children. ''So many people were dependent on him for everything.''
 Frederick's contributions ranged from helping to set up for services to giving occasional readings to arranging for members to get there, even when it meant enlisting his children or driving them himself.
 Recently, the church merged with a Chinese congregation, to bring new young members into its aging congregation. As usual, Frederick, whose mother is Filipino and whose father is Chinese, was right there to help bridge the gap. His son said that the new members identified with his father even though he was Asian-American and didn't speak any Chinese. ''I've often thought to myself,'' Fred Kuo said, ''that church wouldn't run without him.''

ROBERT PARKS JR.
Of Home and Home Runs
 Robert Parks Jr. was called the sports trivia specialist on Wall Street. ''He had an unbelievable memory if you ever wanted to know who had the first home run or who was the first guy to get the Triple Crown,'' said his younger sister, Carol Parks Clancy. And though his mind simply brimmed with facts about sports, he was also no slouch on the movement of the stock market since 1929.
 He was a bonds broker at Cantor Fitzgerald in 1 World Trade Center, and liked the energy of New York City. But he was really a homebody. At 47, he was the married father of two teenagers. He was content to barbecue burgers on the pool deck of his home in Middletown, N.J. His enthusiasm for sports played out through his children. His 16-year-old daughter, Bridgette, is a big swimmer, and he would go to her meets, checking out her times. He was also a coach for the basketball team of his 14-year-old son, Kevin. He himself had played high school varsity basketball and football at St. Peter's Preparatory School in Jersey City.

EUGEN LAZAR
Hunger for Answers
 Eugen Lazar was a child with a million questions. How does our body work, his mother once recalled him asking their pediatrician back in Bucharest when he was 3. When we stop walking, what makes us stop? ''All these questions,'' said Siu Chong, his girlfriend. ''He was always wondering how everything works, always seeking for knowledge.''
 A programmer at eSpeed, part of Cantor Fitzgerald, Eugen, 27, had graduated from Cooper Union with a degree in engineering. Fascinated by music and how people hear it, he was building his own speakers. He was a cook and a baker. He and Siu liked to make crepes together; in Paris, they watched closely to see how they were made. They had even tackled chocolate fondue.
 An only child, Eugen lived in the Glendale section of Queens in an apartment in the home of his parents, Alecsandru and Elena, who immigrated from Romania in 1985.
 He met his girlfriend, a graphic designer, on a camping trip in the Catskills years ago. When he learned years later that she no longer had a boyfriend, he sent her an e-mail message and asked her out for pizza.
 Last Sunday, they returned to the restaurant, Lombardi's in SoHo, and remembered their first date. ''He was so perfect for me,'' Siu said.

DEL-ROSE CHEATHAM
A Dream Already Realized
The family of Del-Rose Cheatham was anticipating another great party in celebration of her 49th birthday on Sept. 14. Her last big bash, in the family home in the Poconos with 55 friends and family members, was to celebrate her 2000 graduation from Queens College after years of night school, during which she worked two jobs.
 She had already been working as an accounting manager at Cantor Fitzgerald, on the 101st floor of 1 World Trade Center, but the diploma was ''her dream,'' said her brother, Chris Forbes. He was the youngest of five children in Montego Bay, Jamaica, and Del-Rose was the oldest, ''and she was a mother to me; she raised all of us,'' Mr. Forbes said. His sister was a Jehovah's Witness, and loved to do field work, strolling up and down the street and talking to people about God. Now God is very much on the family's mind. ''All we can do is accept,'' said Dunstan Forbes, her father.

KEITH D. McHEFFEY
An Anchor in a Crisis
 Keith D. McHeffey was flying home from France two years ago when one of the jet's engines failed and the pilot was forced to drop fuel, turn around and head back toward Ireland. In the panic, distraught flight attendants plucked Keith from his seat, gave him a crash course in emergency landings and assigned him the unenviable job of operating the emergency door and slide.
 Keith, 31, inspired confidence. Friends called him for help in the middle of the night and he would come; if a house got flooded, he would be there at midnight helping. ''These kind of things sort of happened to him,'' his mother, Sherry McHeffey, said of the incident on the plane, which landed safely at Shannon Airport. ''We were assuming this was one of the worst things that would ever happen to Keith.''
 The son of a broker, Keith had become a trader. He lived in Monmouth Beach, N.J., played in a softball league, skiied and snowboarded, played basketball and rode a mountain bike in Atlantic Highlands, near his home. Two months ago, he took a job at Cantor Fitzgerald. He was planning to work in the firm's new offices in Shrewsbury, N.J., which, his mother said, had been expected to open early this month but turned out not to be ready.

JOSEPH TROMBINO
Close Calls Never Counted
 Three people were killed in the 1981 Brink's robbery in Nanuet, N.Y., and Joseph Trombino barely escaped being the fourth. Shot in the shoulder, his left arm hung on by only a thread. It was sewn back on in three operations.
 He returned to work as an armed guard two years later. ''He'd done that for so long,'' said his wife, Jean, ''it was like he didn't know what else to do.''
 Joseph never spoke about the danger involved in his job. In 1993, he had been making deliveries to the World Trade Center just hours before it was bombed. A close call, but after the 1981 robbery, close calls didn't really count.
 Now 68, he was at last planning to retire in a year or so, his wife said. But on Tuesday, as ever, he was up at 2:30 a.m. and out by 3:30 a.m., to make it to work in Brooklyn by 5 a.m. A little after 9 a.m., he was waiting in the armored truck in the basement of the trade center for his three fellow guards to return from the 11th floor. They made it to safety. Joseph called into Brink's from a pay phone, his wife said, to say a policeman had told him to move the truck. The building was shaking and water was cascading down, Joseph said, before the line went dead.

ROBERT LANE CRUIKSHANK
A Very Decent Man
The marriage proposal of Robert Lane Cruikshank was not the stuff of which a maiden dreams. ''My mother always told me how I would feel when I fell in love and I don't feel that way,'' he said, ''but I thought about it and I decided she was wrong.'' 
 Marianne Johnson, sitting in a restaurant in her low-back black dress with the red cabbage roses, married him anyway. Why? ''Because he was the most decent, the most solid -- he was just a good man,'' Marianne says of her husband of 38 years, from their home on Manhattan's Upper East Side.
 ''I make him sound dull -- we had a house in Stratton that we called Mountain De Open Dour, I was the 'open,' he was the 'dour' -- but he was fun. You could trust him. Grown men have been here crying. He was a rock to everyone we knew.''
 Robert, 64, father of two, was a vice president of Carr Futures and worked on the 92nd floor of the north tower.
 He and his wife had a home in Beaver Creek, Colo., and he was, his wife says, ''very sportif'' -- he loved tennis, skiing and golf. He sometimes joked about quitting and going on the senior tennis tour, but the truth was, he loved what he did.
 A special time? ''He once decided to surprise me and planned a trip to Rome, the entire trip,'' Marianne says. ''It was two weeks, which for Cruikshank was a very long time, because the world was waiting for him to work.''

ANDREW STERN
A Circle of Life
 How to fathom the circuitous and horrifying symmetry of the twin towers in the story of Andrew Stern, a Cantor Fitzgerald broker. 
 ''Our lives started together in the World Trade Center and now they have ended with it,'' said his wife, Katie. The couple met there in 1986. That was at Dean Witter Reynolds, as it was then called, when it was in 2 World Trade Center. He was a trader. She was a sales assistant. ''I didn't really know him well,'' she said. ''We met at the copy machine.'' 
 Hindsight reveals how perceptibly, but inevitably, photocopying led to dating, and marriage, and children -- Danny is 7, Emma is 4 -- ''and as the years went by, I fell in love with him more and more,'' Katie said. They both moved on, and out, of the trade center, but Andrew returned -- this time to 1 World Trade Center -- to be a broker in Cantor Fitzgerald's municipal bond department on the 104th floor.
 And so it happened that last Saturday they drove in from Bellmore, N.Y., to attend a Manhattan wedding, and stayed overnight in the Roosevelt Hotel. ''I'm so glad to have a memory of that romantic evening,'' Katie said. But when they left on that beautiful Sunday morning, they walked down Fifth Avenue toward Pennsylvania Station, ''and we could both see the trade center, right there before us.''
 The following people noted on this page have officially been confirmed dead: Mr. Cruikshank, Mr. D'Ambrosi, Mr. Iskyan, Mr. Lazar, Mr. McHeffey, Mr. Parks, Mr. Rice, Mr. Stern and Mr. York.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (71%); YOUTH SPORTS (69%); MASSAGE SERVICES (66%); ICE SKATING (63%); WINTER SPORTS (63%); YOGA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004



455 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
The terror in Lower Manhattan tests the fabric woven from a variety of strands of the communication network.

BYLINE:  By Amy Harmon 

 BODY:
FOR a nation obsessed with cellphones, e-mail and satellite TV, the gap between virtual communication and physical reality was never as painfully evident as during the chaos of last week's terrorist attacks.
 Because of the immediacy of the electronic news media, millions of people were able to watch a hijacked airliner crash into a skyscraper, but were helpless to stop it. Cellphone technology let Jeremy Glick call his wife to say goodbye from the hijacked plane that crashed in Pennsylvania, but she couldn't bear to stay on the line. Web sites listing survivors held little comfort for those who looked for names that weren't there. 
 But if all our high-tech networks could not compensate for the vulnerability of the physical world, the week's events also offered an encouraging glimpse at how the modern-day matrix of communications technologies bridged distance and destruction to help businesses, families, friends and governments truly connect.
"I must have gotten 500 phone calls on my cellphone" in the days after the attacks, said Barak Pridor, chief executive of ClearForest, a software company whose office in the World Trade Center was demolished. Only 2 of the 18 ClearForest employees who typically worked in the building were there when the plane hit, and they escaped with minor bruises. Mr. Pridor has been fielding offers of temporary space from friends and business partners. "I've been constantly charging my battery."
Mr. Pridor was far from alone in using a wide range of communications networks to run his business and make sense of his life last week. When the phone system was intermittently overloaded on Tuesday and Wednesday, 30 million Americans turned to the Internet to send e-mail about the crisis, according to a survey by the Pew Internet and American Life project. 
If no land line was available, people made cellphone calls or sent text messages with wireless devices. Wireless data traffic was 57 percent higher than normal at 10:00 a.m. Tuesday, just after the hijackings, according to Cingular Wireless, one of the largest wireless data carriers. Televisions and radios, of course, were turned on everywhere.
When computer engineers describe the holy grail of a "self-healing network" -- a system with enough built-in intelligence to sense a problem and fix it without human intervention -- they cite "layers" as a crucial architectural concept. None of the individual networks of commerce, from airlines to telephone lines, are yet sophisticated enough to heal themselves. But there may be enough interwoven layers to make a difference in how quickly damaged portions of the wider social and economic network can be patched.
It was largely because of the multiple communications options available to them, for instance, that executives and other professionals who found themselves far from home base because of the disruption to airports last week were able to do business in "real time" even as they rented cars or hopped on trains for slow transcontinental trips home.
And cellphones, however ultimately inadequate as a means to convey final words, may have saved Washington from a second attack if, as some reports have speculated, the information that people on Flight 93 were able to obtain about the other hijackings led them to take action to thwart the plan over Pennsylvania. 
Indeed, with the week's grim reminder of the risks of traveling to transact commerce face to face, some psychologists and business analysts predict that Americans will rely increasingly on virtual modes of communications, choosing technologies like videoconferencing and e-mail over boarding an airplane.
If that happens, it will accelerate a trend toward greater decentralization of business that has been under way for some time, perhaps best illustrated by the speed with which Wall Street has been able to recover from last week's disaster. Many of the people who worked in the World Trade Center were managing money that primarily exists only as electronic bits. That thousands of them were there doing that work in one physical place is testimony to the importance modern business still places on face-to-face interaction among colleagues. 
But in pure technology terms, the World Trade Center model of commerce seems no longer necessary. And if much of "Wall Street" ends up moving permanently to its currently temporary quarters in Jersey City, or dissipates more than ever into cyberspace, it may indicate just how much the physics and physical realities of the modern financial system have truly changed.
Still, the week's events may also highlight a paradox in the current complex web of interconnection. Desirable as it may seem to withdraw into virtual communication -- whether for reasons of fear or economic efficiency -- more use of communication technology tends to lead to more face-to-face communication, and vice versa. Schmoozing and videoconferencing are fundamentally incompatible, and people like to schmooze. As a result, the two forms of commerce and conversation may be inextricably linked. 
"Having e-mail makes it worth going to places and meeting people because you can actually stay in touch with them," said Esther Dyson, a New York-based technology consultant who was watching news of the terrorist attacks from a hotel room in Sofia, Bulgaria, last week, where she had high-speed Internet access. "I'm as connected here as I would have been in my office," Ms. Dyson said by telephone. "But I still wish I were there with you. I still want to come home." 
Perhaps no one was more familiar with the nexus of the virtual and physical than Daniel C. Lewin, 31, co-founder of Akamai Technologies. He was killed last week when the American Airlines flight he was aboard crashed into the World Trade Center's north tower. Mr. Lewin, whose company is devoted to accelerating the delivery of Internet information, frequently flew from his home in Boston to the West Coast to meet with clients and prospective customers.
One Akamai service enables companies to conduct "Web conferences" to report their quarterly financial results, and it is working on more sophisticated videoconferencing services, said Tom Leighton, Akamai's other founder and Mr. Lewin's former professor at M.I.T. But Mr. Lewin still found it vital to meet in person, often wandering around Akamai's offices in Cambridge with jokes or exhortations to colleagues.
It may be a tribute to Mr. Lewin's career that even though he was killed in the violence that rent the nation's physical matrix, the technology he invented was helping the world to cope with the disaster, at least in virtual terms. 
Akamai's core technology, which allows popular Web sites like Yahoo and CNN.com to handle more users by distributing the load among server computers at different locations on the Internet, had its most impressive day yet last Tuesday, when some news sites experienced 1,000 times their usual volume of traffic. 
Although some news sites initially choked on the influx, the main ones were back to spreading the word within an hour or two -- when, sadly, Mr. Lewin was among the first of the day's many victims to be publicly identified by name.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); AIRLINES (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); CONTUSIONS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%)

PERSON: HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



456 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE TECHNOLOGISTS; 
A Test Like None Before For the Computer Wizards

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
Early Saturday morning, wending his way to his office through the police checkpoints in the semi-militarized zone near Wall Street, Will Sterling, the chief technology officer of Island ECN, heard someone call his name. Turning, he saw Roger Berkhart, the chief technology officer of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Berkhart was wearing a suit. 
 "A suit on Wall Street -- the first time that's ever seemed odd," said Matthew Andresen, Island's chief executive. Mr. Andresen was hunkered down this weekend with Mr. Sterling at Island's headquarters on Broad Street, scrambling to get computer systems running smoothly for the opening of trading today. 
 Both executives at Island, which handles about one-sixth of the trades on Nasdaq, wore jeans. While Mr. Andresen munched Pop-Tarts and fielded phone calls, he was quick to acknowledge that the heaviest responsibility on the stock market this week rests with the computer "wonks" shoring up the communications networks that the market relies on.
Indeed, if there was a doubt about the importance of techies to the capitalist enterprise in the post-Internet bubble, it may be quickly dispelled in the post-World Trade Center stock market, where shareholders are depending on people like Mr. Sterling and Mr. Berkhart to ensure that the ultimate capitalist marketplace functions fairly. 
"It's really important for the continuity of the markets for there not to be places where people can't get to," Mr. Andresen said. "A market relies on ease of entry and exit, and if certain people can't interact with certain orders, then it's chaos."
In the all-electronic Nasdaq, that means every broker needs to be electronically linked to every exchange to have equal access to the best share price at any given time. For Mr. Sterling, who is 24 years old, the task of resuscitating the computer network began last Tuesday after checking that his girlfriend, working in Midtown, was O.K. after the attacks. (She was.) 
Island's data center is only a few blocks from the trade center. After the attacks, soot was pouring into the air-conditioning intake, which meant that Island's 2,000 computers were heating up. When it became clear that there was no way to clear the ducts, Mr. Sterling made the traumatic decision to shut down the entire system for the first time in the four years since he had built it. 
The company's backup data center in Secaucus, N.J., was still about eight weeks from completion. But Mr. Sterling went to work there Wednesday and began contacting each of Island's 700 brokerage subscribers, finding a way to connect those whose private data lines to the company had been damaged. For some, that meant establishing a makeshift "virtual private network" using Internet connections, which were largely intact, and encryption technology to restrict access to authorized users only.
Mr. Sterling is emblematic of the new generation of financial techies. He dropped out of college after his freshman year at the University of Texas and taught himself to manage computer systems at a day-trading firm in New York that has since gone out of business. 
This weekend, Island's data center, with its flat-screen monitors flashing simulated orders and share prices in bright green and fuchsia, still reeked of smoke. But Mr. Sterling had the calm demeanor of a techie -- a person for whom at least certain systems of logic remained intact in a world rocked by the irrational.
"We've found hundreds of little problems in our tests, and we've corrected them," Mr. Sterling said. "The system is working just as it should." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); BONDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); INTERNET PRIVACY (71%); HIJACKING (66%); TERRORISM (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TERRORISM; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ;ISLAND ECN 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY; STERLING, WILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



457 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. Government Strikes Confident Economic Chord
Government officials struck a confident public stance about the economy and privately urged investment firms to do what they could to prevent a financially and psychologically devastating tumble in share prices today.
 With much riding on the stock market's opening, everyone from TV commentators to ministers urged Americans to buy stocks not just because they might be a sound investment but almost as a patriotic duty. Page A1. 

More Airline Layoffs Are Expected
In an early sign of the economic fallout from the hijackings, Continental became the first major airline to announce sweeping layoffs. About 12,000 people will lose their jobs, more than 20 percent of the airline's work force. Gordon M. Bethune, the chief executive of Continental, predicted industry-wide layoffs of 100,000, noting the sharp decline in passenger reservations since the airlines gingerly returned to the air on Thursday. Northwest, American and United have said they plan to reduce their flight schedules by 20 percent, which will undoubtedly mean layoffs. C6.

Disaster Tests Communications
Because of the immediacy of the electronic news media, millions of people were able to watch a hijacked airliner crash into a skyscraper, but they were helpless to stop it. Cellphone technology let one man call his wife to say goodbye from the hijacked plane that crashed in Pennsylvania, but she could not bear to stay on the line. But if the high-technology networks could not compensate for the vulnerability of the physical world, the week's events also offered a glimpse at how modern communications bridged distance and destruction to help businesses, families, friends and governments connect. New Economy. C2.

Bank Working to Restore Systems
The Bank of New York, which processes about half of all government securities trades and operates the fifth-largest retail branch network in the New York, was having mixed success in restoring its operations. C10.

Internet Providers Curb Material
For Internet service companies, the aftermath of the attacks has meant new scrutiny of the material that their online users can view and post. Some material has forced the Internet access providers to step up their screening efforts or rethink their standards of what sort of material is acceptable. C8.

Some Flaws Crop Up in Reporting
Television news has received unaccustomed praise for its aggressiveness and sensitivity. But the very qualities that allow television to keep its audience connected also leave it vulnerable to conveying undeveloped, sometimes erroneous reports in the fury of a fast but meandering investigation. C4.

CNN presented the first aerial video footage of the devastation in New York, but the way CNN obtained the footage was immediately criticized by some of its competitors. C6.

Profits Are Starting to Suffer
From the giant Ford Motor to Huffy, the bicycle and scooter maker, American companies are already feeling the effect of the terrorist attacks on their bottom lines. C14.

Now Planning for the Unthinkable
Business disaster recovery experts like Comdisco, left, have been confronted by a stunning new form of devastation that few had imagined before the attacks. Most disruptions stem from computer programming mistakes, backhoes chopping up communications lines and other human accidents. Recovery specialists also plan for more destructive events, but their concern in such cases has primarily been natural disasters. Now, with the recovery efforts in full swing, consultants and providers of recovery services are pondering the implications for their obscure but growing segment of the information technology world. C2.

Claims May Exceed $10 Billion
Claims by businesses for lost income and relocation expenses may run to more than $10 billion, insurance industry analysts say, possibly exceeding the direct costs of the damage to destroyed buildings and offices. C10.

Ad Challenges for Transportation
The difficulties for advertisers and agencies as a result of the attacks in New York and Washington probably loom largest for transportation, a marketing category at the heart of the disaster. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C10.

Internet Passes a Crucial Test
While some Web sites slowed after the terrorist attacks, the overall flow of data across the Internet was not degraded by either damage to critical fiber optic lines or the clogging of those lines by Web users, according to firms that analyze Web site traffic and performance. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); HIJACKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); MOTORCYCLES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



458 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE BALANCE SHEET; 
Profits Are Expected to Suffer In Many Types of Businesses

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
From the giant Ford Motor Company to the modest-size Huffy Corporation, which makes bicycles and scooters, American companies are already feeling the effect on their bottom lines of the terrorist attacks against the United States.
 Before the attacks, many companies were downgrading their earnings forecasts because of the economic slowdown. Now they are taking them lower or saying the uncertainty in the economic outlook makes predicting impossible. 
 While Americans were still reeling last week from the death and destruction at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, it was clear that the airlines and the insurance companies would suffer huge losses. Now the earnings problems are spreading to other businesses, in part because the disruptions in commerce that have already occurred are likely to weaken the economy further at a time when it is barely growing at all. 
But because many of the disruptions will probably be temporary and the government is moving to provide greater fiscal and monetary stimulus, economists say that when a recovery comes, it may be stronger than it would have been otherwise. "We expect to see a sharper recovery in 2002," said John Lipsky, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Chase.
But it may take some time for a recovery to translate into a substantial rebound in corporate earnings. And the expected decline in corporate earnings adds another negative to the many already swirling though corporate America as the stock market prepares to open today for the first time since the attacks.
Mr. Lipsky said he had already expected a broad measure of corporate earnings to fall 8 percent to 10 percent this year before the attacks on Tuesday. But now he says profits may fall 20 percent this year because of the shock from the terrorism.
"This comes at a time when earnings had already been falling," Mr. Lipsky said. "And this is going to be a new downward force."
Thomas McManus, the equity strategist at Banc America Securities, said the attacks could be especially damaging to earnings for many technology companies. He said these companies tend to book most of their sales in the third month of a quarter. And the economic and political uncertainty generated by the attack "will prevent many new orders from being placed in September."
Mr. McManus also said that, among other things, "the increased cost of security will raise the cost of doing business" for all kinds of companies, cutting into earnings.
Huffy is an example of a company whose earnings outlook, already damaged by the economy, is expected to become even worse as a result of the attacks.
On Friday, the company said that it was cutting its earnings forecast for this year to zero cents to 12 cents a share, well below its previous prediction of 50 cents to 70 cents.
"Despite repeated cuts in interest rates and the recent tax rebate, the overall economy softness continues and the retail environment remains a challenge," Don Graber, the chairman, said in a statement.
Ford Motor said it would miss its forecast of 10 cents a share in the third quarter. It is also cutting production in North America because of tighter security at the nation's borders and grounded flights, which have interrupted the deliveries of parts. General Motors and Toyota also announced production cuts.
Some restaurant businesses are expected to pay a price. During a tour on Saturday of four of the seven closed Au Bon Pain bakery cafes south of Houston Street in lower Manhattan, Frank Guidara, the president, said the bakery cafes in Washington and Manhattan account for about 40 percent of the company's retail sales. While the 25 other stores in Manhattan were open all last week, all the stores in Washington were closed on Tuesday. Only three of the company's fast food restaurants in lower Manhattan are scheduled to reopen on Monday.
Like many other technology companies, the Insightful Corporation, a software company, said last week that it had cut its third-quarter earnings forecast because of the expected decline in spending on software and services by the financial industry "as a result of the World Trade Center tragedy." In the last year, one-quarter of the company's revenue came from the financial industry.
Not all the earnings news has been so negative. Pfizer, the pharmaceutical company, issued a statement last week after the attack that reaffirmed its earnings forecasts for this year and next. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); INSURANCE (72%); TAX RELIEF (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); HUFFY CORP (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



459 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE DEAL MAKERS; 
Merger Deals Are Stalled Amid Doubt

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
For investment bankers it is the equivalent of an insurer's "acts of God" clause. It's called the "material adverse change," or MAC, proviso, and it can enable companies to back out of all sorts of business deals.
 Certainly, last week's terrorist attacks brought adverse change. And MAC's are now among the many vagaries on a wounded Wall Street, as deal makers try to revive the deal-making side of the business world. 
 "There was an expectation that after Labor Day we'd have a flurry of deals throughout the rest of the year," said Richard Peterson, chief market strategist at Thomson Financial Securities Data. "Now it's a new ballgame."
Few expect a wave of deal failures, or that financing will dry up. But new uncertainties could undermine dozens of pending mergers and acquisitions and countless other financial transactions, lawyers and investment bankers said. And beyond the corporate implications for companies that may now delay or cancel transactions, Wall Street is expected to be especially hard hit without the fees it would typically earn for advising clients -- in a year in which business had already been bad.
In the flush of patriotic defiance and esprit de corps with which many in the financial world are responding to the crisis, bankers said some companies still planned to press ahead and announce new deals in the coming days and weeks -- if simply to help bolster the resolve and strength of investors and the economy.
But some deals may be in jeopardy, after other companies began quietly asking their lawyers last week if and how they can back out of transactions they fear may plummet in value when stock trading resumes. 
Already, the Spanish company Telefonica Moviles has canceled its offer to buy the 54 percent stake in Celular CRT Participacoes of Brazil that it does not already own, blaming the terrorist attacks in the United States for the deal's collapse.
Some of Wall Street's biggest pending deals are expected at least to be delayed:
*General Motors said negotiations over the sale of its Hughes Electronics unit, which owns the DirecTV satellite television business, could take longer than it had planned. The declining price of Hughes's stock had already caused the talks to bog down. G.M. is holding parallel negotiations with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and EchoStar Communications, the second largest satellite TV provider in the nation. G.M. had hoped to decide on a suitor within a month, but few now expect that deadline to be met.
*The fate of AT&T's cable business, AT&T Broadband, will no doubt be delayed, executives close to the company said. An unsolicited offer from Comcast in July, which AT&T rejected, set off a flurry of discussions and other proposals to buy the unit, including a preliminary merger offer from AOL Time Warner. Although AT&T's board is expected to meet on Thursday, it is not clear how swiftly a final decision will come. 
*Final bids for Brooks Brothers, a unit of Marks & Spencer, were supposed to be due last Thursday, but the deadline has been extended.
*Hewlett-Packard's plan to acquire Compaq Computer, which was widely jeered by investors when it was announced on Sept. 4, is likely to at least be delayed, some analysts said, if the deal is not abandoned first. Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, was supposed to fly to Houston last week to try persuading investors to support the deal. Her flight, like thousands of others, was canceled.
*The auction for the Spanish-language television company Telemundo Communications Group, principally owned by Sony and Liberty Media, could take longer than expected. An outcome was expected by the end of the month.
One big imponderable for investment banks and their clients is the near-term uncertainty of the value of stock, which is often used as currency to make acquisitions. Typically, activity in mergers and acquisitions drops off when stocks fluctuate, as companies retreat from the aggressive strategy of buying to a defensive strategy of hunkering down.
And then there are the MAC's and other contractual terms that could allow possible exits to one or both parties under certain circumstances. Some companies that had already entered into agreements not yet completed could use the terrorist attacks as a reason to abort deals that no longer seem as attractive.
It will be some time before parties to a merger know for sure whether one of them intends to invoke a MAC clause. Most deals that would have been consummated last week or this week have been postponed for now. 
"People will probably wait and see what happens" when the markets reopen, said Kenneth A. Lefkowitz, co-chairman of the mergers and acquisitions group at Hughes Hubbard & Reed. 
Backing out of a merger agreement would probably require more than citing a general stock market decline, if one occurs, said Mel Immergut, chairman of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. "You would likely have to come up with something in an M.& A. deal that would affect the particular business of the company involved," he said, "as opposed to saying that there was a drop in the stock market." 
For example, a company that agreed to buy a hotel chain that operated resorts in the Middle East might have a strong case that the seller had suffered a material adverse change and its business was now worth substantially less, said Leonard Chazen, a partner at the law firm of Covington & Burling. "You'd have a much stronger case that these events actually relate," he said, "that they have a pretty close connection to the viability of that project."
The situation is different for corporate finance transactions, Mr. Immergut said, because contracts governing debt and equity sales usually allow the underwriter, who guarantees the sale of the stock or debt for a minimum price, to back out if something forces an unscheduled closing of the stock market, for example.
"That's happened," Mr. Immergut said, and that means that some investment banks may choose to exercise their "market out" clauses.
No investment firm takes such a step lightly, he and other lawyers said. "Underwriters very rarely exercise this right," Mr. Lefkowitz said.
Still, several Wall Street lawyers -- all of whom would discuss the matter only if they were not identified -- said that some clients had called them at the end of last week to discuss their options for withdrawing from agreements, while others had called to ask what they could do to bind investment firms to their contractual obligations.
In the end, it may all depend on the fine print. Trying to use a MAC or a "market out" argument will depend on the language of the contract.
"It depends on how they're drafted," Mr. Chazen said. Usually, "general economic conditions or general industry conditions can't be a basis for invoking a MAC clause, and even if it's not drafted that way, we're not in the Depression." He paused. "At least I hope not."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (84%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); US LABOR DAY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (65%); BROADBAND (60%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (81%); NEWS CORP (81%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); CELULAR CRT PARTICIPACOES SA (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); AT&T BROADBAND LLC (50%)

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%) SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



460 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: MARKET PLACE; 
An Inquiry On Stock Gains Yields Little

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS and EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

 BODY:
Is it possible that the attackers who evidently despise the American financial system also tried to use it to profit from the crimes?
 Speculation to that effect has grown to the point that investigators in two countries have looked at financial market trades before last week's attacks, wondering if they could have been made by people who knew that the attacks were planned. 
 The evidence as yet is nothing but circumstantial, one investigator said, adding that both the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States and officials in Germany had begun examining the transactions. A German official said that a preliminary investigation had not found any irregularities. 
The possibly suspicious activity includes trading in European insurance companies, in the shares of an American electronic-trading network that was based in the World Trade Center, and in put options on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
Someone who knew that the attacks were coming, and wanted to profit if it succeeded, would presumably have tried to bet that certain share prices would fall on the news. One way to do that would be to sell stocks short -- borrowing the shares and then selling them, hoping that they would decline in price and could later be repurchased for less. Another would be to buy put options, which give the owner the right to sell at a certain price for a limited time.
An American hedge fund manager, who insisted on anonymity, said he had heard rumors of heavy short-selling in eSpeed, the electronic bond-trading network controlled by Cantor Fitzgerald, the big bond firm that had its offices near the top of 1 World Trade Center.
Shares in eSpeed fell $4.30 on Nasdaq, or 35 percent, to $7.95 in unusually heavy volume over the two weeks ended Sept. 7, but recovered to $8.69 on Monday.
To the surprise of many, Cantor Fitzgerald managed to have its system operational again by Thursday, when bond trading resumed. Shares of eSpeed will resume trading today.
There was also surprisingly heavy put volume in one series of options on the S.& P. 500 index on Monday. Options to sell the index at a level of 1,050, which expire on Sept. 21, closed at $7.50. The S.& P. closed that day at 1,092.54, meaning that the options would expire worthless if the index did not fall more than 42 points in less than two weeks.
On that day, 17,955 such put option contracts were traded, more than on any day before, and total volume for the three trading sessions from the previous Thursday through Monday came to 39,108 contracts.
Betting on an American bear market is not, of course, proof that someone knew of a terrorist attack. Economic worries have depressed the market this year.
In Europe, it was noted that the stocks of large insurance companies, particularly reinsurance companies, were very weak in the trading sessions leading up to the attack. Reinsurers provide insurance for insurance companies, and are likely to suffer large losses in a disaster.
Swiss Re, Munich Re and Allianz were among the big insurance companies to decline before the attack. 
Carsten Zielke, an insurance analyst at WestLB Panmeure in Dusseldorf, said that "if you have terrorists who wanted to take advantage of the market, and knew in advance when this damage was going to take place, this is what they would have done." 
But a German stock exchange spokesman said that a preliminary investigation had already ended. "We have looked into the trading patterns of some stocks, but we have seen no irregularities on the basis of that trading data," said Walter Allwicher, the spokesman for Deutsche Borse, the company that owns the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. He said the exchange was not conducting any further investigations now.
Shares in Munich Re, the world's largest reinsurer, dropped sharply during the week before the attack, falling a total of 45.63 euros, or 14.5 percent, to 269.97 euros that Friday, or $248.80. The volume of September put options also soared.
The company has estimated its exposure to the attack at one billion euros, or about $920 million. Its shares ended last week at 243.60 euros after trading as low as 207.02.
An executive at another big German insurer said he was skeptical about the short-selling theory. He said that concerns about weak financial markets, where insurance companies invest the premiums they collect, had affected their share prices.
There are always reasons to bet for, or against, an increase in the value of any particular investment. In the aftermath of last week's disaster, there are inevitable suspicions about those who seem to have profited from the attack. It is far too early to know if those suspicions have any substance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORISM (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); REINSURANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INSURANCE; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) ;ESPEED; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



461 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
The Internet passes its first test as a source of communications in the aftermath of a disaster.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
NEARLY 40 years after it was conceived as a method of maintaining communications in the event of an attack on the United States, the Internet -- long since broadened past that purpose -- last week had the first real test of its original goal.
 To judge by the availability of media sites, many of which were inaccessible in the hours just after the first plane hit the World Trade Center on Tuesday morning, one might assume the Internet had failed the test. But in fact, according to firms that analyze Web site traffic and performance, while some sites slowed, the overall flow of data across the Internet was not degraded by either damage to critical fiber optic lines or the clogging of those lines by Web users. 
 Keynote Systems, which tracks the performance of 40 highly visited business sites, including major news and search sites, said it took about 13 seconds for the average home page to load on Tuesday morning at 10:15 Eastern time, or from three to four times the normal daily average. Over the next several hours, that average returned to normal. 
The improvement reflected the sometimes drastic steps taken by media companies in particular to slash all but the most vital information from their home pages, so users could log on. Take CNN.com, which, like The New York Times on the Web and others, had been unavailable to many users immediately after the attacks. The site cut photos, graphics, text and ads from the first page users reach, leaving just one story, a few bullet points and a headline. The New York Times on the Web took a similar approach, according to Meredith Artley, associate editor. Ms. Artley said the Web page was stripped of all nonessential items, like ads and images, which made the page easier to load. She added that user registration, normally necessary to view certain articles, was suspended.
Viewed another way, CNN.com's home page before the events held more than 255 kilobytes of information; the slimmed-down version was about 20 kilobytes, according to Keynote.
CNN.com's executive producer, Mitch Gelman, said his site also tripled the number of servers -- the technology engines of the Web site -- by using servers that had been dedicated to CNNfn.com and CNNsi.com, which deliver financial and sports news, respectively. Mr. Gelman said the site also received additional servers from, among others, AOL Time Warner, which hosts CNN.com's advertising servers.
Some companies that help Web sites stay up and running reported nothing out of the ordinary on Tuesday. Melissa Neumann, a spokeswoman for Exodus Communications, which operates servers on behalf of more than 4,500 Web sites, said, "our network performed quite well." Any problems with specific sites, she said, were attributable to those sites' not having secured enough servers.
Ms. Neumann said Exodus has four facilities in New York City, including one data center in an undisclosed site in Manhattan, but that none of them was affected by the disaster.
If the overall performance of the Internet was not diminished on Tuesday, one reason is that commerce sites generally saw a marked decrease in the number of users. Not surprisingly, sites like Amazon, IBM.com, and eBay all had fewer visitors than their average.
But in the case of eBay, for one, the drop was slight. According to Kevin Pursglove, an eBay spokesman, people were still trading items as the day progressed, although he did not know specifics about the site's overall sales for the day.
Some of the items put up for auction included items purportedly from in or around the World Trade Center, including stop signs and other debris. EBay quickly halted trading on all items related to the World Trade Center or the Pentagon, a policy that will remain in effect until the end of the month.
While travel sites, too, saw a decrease in the number of visitors, they also experienced a more complicated day than usual. In Chicago, the headquarters of Orbitz, the online travel agency owned by several major airlines, was evacuated Tuesday morning, along with other offices in the vicinity of the Sears Tower.
Employees gathered in nearby apartments and other locations and communicated via instant messaging and conference calls, said Carol Jouzaitis, an Orbitz spokeswoman, to plan the site's response to customer travel inquiries. The company's customer service centers outside Chicago operated smoothly, she added -- a situation that was perhaps aided by the fact that many people could not complete telephone calls on land lines because of volume.
Notably, the site did book flights. "It was significantly less than on a normal day, but it wasn't negligible, either," Ms. Jouzaitis said.
Meanwhile, a supporting player in Internet commerce, advertising, was all but invisible throughout the middle part of the week, as many informational and transactional Web sites distanced themselves from product pitching.
Terrell B. Jones, the chief executive of Travelocity, said he pulled ads on his site on Tuesday "simply because it was inappropriate," and also canceled Travelocity television and radio advertisements that were scheduled for the week.
Other commerce sites placed much more emphasis on Tuesday's events than they did on their merchandise. Amazon, for example, removed all the merchandise from its front page on Tuesday evening and replaced it with a solicitation for donations to the American Red Cross. The site had raised $5.7 million as of Saturday night.
Patty Smith, an Amazon spokeswoman, said she was unsure how long the notice would remain on the front page. "We're more focused on the news" than sales, she said. "And people can still find the stores we have." (Similar efforts were underway on the sites of the Target Corporation, Yahoo and Eddie Bauer, among others.)
Just as the travel industry was disproportionately affected by Tuesday's events, so, too, was the financial industry. According to John Metaxas, a spokesman for E*Trade, the company stopped taking orders for trades on Tuesday, and spent the day testing the systems of trading partners to ensure things would go smoothly once the markets reopened. By Tuesday night, the company began taking orders again for future trades.
For Web sites catering to the corporate community, Tuesday was largely a day off. There were some exceptions, of course. According to David Leip, corporate Webmaster for IBM.com, most of Tuesday was spent accounting for employees in the core of his technology team, which is based on Broad Street, a short walk from the World Trade Center. Mr. Leip said the staff was indeed safe.
I.B.M. technologists were, meanwhile, hard at work, helping a number of large corporate customers in the area get their sites operating normally. A company spokesman declined to name the customers, but Mr. Leip said there were "quite a number of tenants in the World Trade Center who are customers of ours, and there were some major networking hubs" in 7 World Trade Center, which collapsed Tuesday night.
The number of visitors to the IBM.com site was, of course, down significantly, Mr. Leip said. "The last thing people were worried about was doing that I.T. upgrade next quarter."
Still, not all business-to-business Internet companies were able to focus squarely on the day's events. Boston-based Akamai Technologies, which works with corporate and consumer Web sites to route information and graphics more efficiently around the globe, helped a number of media companies, including CNN.com, improve their accessibility as the day wore on.
For Akamai, the additional work was particularly troubling for other reasons. Daniel C. Lewin, the company's co-founder and chief technology officer, was on American Airlines Flight 11, the first plane to hit the World Trade Center. Felicia Spagnoli, an Akamai spokeswoman, said the company was "devastated," but she said Mr. Lewin's death did not paralyze the company's technology team.
"If anything, it inspired people that much more to get it done, and fulfill his vision to support the Internet and allow it to become a vital communications resource," Ms. Spagnoli said. "This week is a testament to the fact that his idea works, and will continue to do so."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Clicking During the Crisis"Nonmedia sites with the greatest increase in traffic last Tuesday, compared with the previous Tuesday. SITE: panynj.govCHANGE: +7,715 SITE: disasterrelief.orgCHANGE: +2,342 SITE: redcross.orgCHANGE: +1,494 SITE: fbi.govCHANGE: +1,306 SITE: nyc.govCHANGE: +787 SITE: whitehouse.govCHANGE: +433 SITE: united.comCHANGE: +233 SITE: amtrak.comCHANGE: +176 SITE: fema.govCHANGE: +173 SITE: cia.govCHANGE: +129 Graph shows visitors in thousands on Sept. 4 and Sept. 11(Source: Comscore Networks) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WEB SITES (76%); TERRORISM (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); MISSING PERSONS (69%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (63%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: AOL INC (62%); KEYNOTE SYSTEMS INC (56%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (62%); KEYN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (56%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (56%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



462 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE MARKETS; 
Uncertainly, Market Reopens Today

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
In a triumph of determination and intense effort, America's stock markets plan to reopen this morning for trading, less than a week after the worst terrorist attack in history devastated Lower Manhattan.
 But after trading resumes on both the Nasdaq stock market and the New York Stock Exchange, investors and securities firms will face considerable uncertainty about how the markets will perform, physically and financially. No one really knows how well the damaged communications and power systems of downtown Manhattan will be able to handle what Wall Street expects will be a very busy day of trading. The psychological toll on employees who must return to an area that was consumed by fire and fear just six days ago may also be heavy. 
 Nor can anyone be certain whether stocks will rise or fall, or whether appeals to patriotism and resolve will overcome the fears that Tuesday's attacks dealt a heavy short-term blow to an already slowing American economy.
Any technical problems with trading may add to the nervousness of investors. Yesterday, the communications systems at the Big Board and securities firms were tested for a second day, with no problems reported. Richard A. Grasso, the Big Board's chairman, has pledged that trading will resume today, with no contingency plans needed. "I have absolute confidence," he said.
Wall Street wants to go back to work. Capitalism has been very good to many people in the securities industry, and more than one trader views opening the markets as a patriotic duty, a sign that terrorists cannot cow the United States. Firefighters, police officers and the mayor and governor of New York plan to be on hand when the opening bell rings at the New York Exchange.
Opening stock markets is important not just as a symbolic gesture but for practical reasons. Many Americans have most or all of their savings in the stock market. Some, especially people who have recently been laid off, may need to sell shares to pay mortgages or other bills.
The slowing economy, meanwhile, may cause some companies -- even ones that have been profitable -- to lose money for the next few months. Those companies need to sell bonds and stocks to raise money so they can continue to pay their employees and suppliers. Other companies may use the money they raise to expand. While most companies are issuing bonds to raise money, the bond and stock markets are inextricably linked, and the bond market would eventually come to a halt if stocks could not be traded.
"You will see very high volume tomorrow. You will see companies needing to raise capital and investors needing to buy and sell securities," John Thain, the president of Goldman Sachs, said yesterday. He did not, however, expect to see panic selling when the markets reopen. Mr. Thain said that Goldman, whose headquarters are only a few hundred feet from the New York Stock Exchange, planned to have nearly all of its employees at work.
One trader for a major investment firm said that those companies that were displaced, including Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers, would probably handle a smaller share of the day's trading than usual. To place trades with those firms, customers will have to dial unfamiliar numbers in New Jersey rather than punching keys on their computers.
The New York Mercantile Exchange, which trades commodities like gold and crude oil, will also resume trading this morning in its headquarters in the World Financial Center.
When the stock markets reopen, the Big Board will be at far greater risk of having unexpected problems than will the Nasdaq. On the Nasdaq, firms like Goldman and Merrill Lynch compete directly with each other to buy and sell shares from investors of all sizes. The Nasdaq's computers serve as a central clearinghouse where the firms, called market-makers, can post their bids to buy and offers to sell, and confirm trades when they are made.
But the Nasdaq has no physical center. It exists only on computers. Nasdaq's computers are not in New York City, and the data lines that connect the Nasdaq to its market-makers do not primarily run through downtown Manhattan. Firms in buildings that were damaged or destroyed, like Merrill Lynch, have moved to backup sites that have undamaged connections to Nasdaq.
The New York Exchange has a very different model. Many small buy and sell orders on the exchange are matched electronically. But larger orders are usually routed from the securities firms that receive them to the exchange's trading floor, where a human specialist helps match buyers and sellers.
As a result, the exchange depends on Lower Manhattan's communications systems to operate, and it cannot easily move to a backup site. The exchange is tightening its security. The section of Broad Street in front of the exchange will be permanently closed to traffic.
But the stakes for the exchange are high. To keep the securities industry united during a time of national crisis, Nasdaq agreed not to reopen until the exchange was ready. But the president of Nasdaq, Richard Ketchum, said Saturday that the Nasdaq would probably not close again once it reopened, even if the Big Board cannot operate.
"We are looking for both of us to be up on Monday," Mr. Ketchum said. "Once we're up, we expect to continue to trade."
The situation is even more complicated because securities firms can already trade the Big Board's stocks on the Nasdaq's system, bypassing the exchange entirely. The trading of Big Board stocks away from the exchange floor has always been relatively minor, because securities firms and investors think they will get the best prices, either as buyers or sellers, at the exchange. But if the Big Board has problems today, securities firms may begin routing their trades of New York Stock Exchange stocks onto Nasdaq's system, a blow from which the exchange would have a difficult time recovering.
The New York Stock Exchange has made enormous efforts to ensure that its systems will be ready for trading. Now, in just one of the many questions that Wall Street will face today, the Big Board must hope that work has been effective.

Nymex to Close Early
At the New York Mercantile Exchange, the trading day will be shortened, opening at 11 a.m. and closing at 2 p.m. Normally, the first contract starts trading at 5 a.m., with other openings staggered until 9:50 a.m. The closes are also staggered, concluding at 3:10 p.m.
Today, all contracts will open at once. The trading will be done in the exchange's pits, using the traditional open outcry method.
The exchange had a two-hour session on Friday, conducted over the Internet with a system usually used for after-hours trading. Gold rose almost 7 percent then, to $290.90 an ounce, while a barrel of crude oil climbed $1.89, to $29.74.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wall Street prepares to return to business even as security stays tight in Lower Manhattan. Clockwise from top, a checkpoint on Broad Street; an officer takes precautions; and Big Board workers go through a dry run yesterday. (Reuters) Chart: "Reopening for Business"The biggest obstacles to getting the stock exchanges running involve ensuring that brokers who take and place orders can communicate with the exchanges that execute them. For the many brokers who have had to relocate, and there are many, there are added problems related to getting back to work. HOW THE SYSTEM WORKS Brokers receive orders to buy or sell stocks, electronically or over the phone. THE PROBLEMS TO BE OVERCOME Brokers have to make sure that telephone and Internet systems, many of which were damaged, are working well enough for customers to place orders. Brokers transmit the orders to the exchanges through direct computer links. The networks connecting many brokers to the exchanges have to be repaired or backup networks have to be put into operation and tested. The exchanges receive the orders, match them up and execute them. On Nasdaq, this is entirely done electronically. On the New York Stock Exchange, orders are processed by specialists, who receive most orders by computer. For larger orders, representatives of major brokers, which have booths on the trading floor, walk over and speak to the specialists. After trades are executed, confirmations are sent electronically to the brokers. In cases where firms have to move, software that lets the brokers communicate with the exchanges also has to be tested. At the end of each day, the brokers send lists of executed trades to a clearinghouse, which has three days to match them up and make sure that money and stock change hands. Trades executed last Monday were settled after the attack occurred, but it remains to be seen if the systems connecting the brokers to the clearinghouses are working fully. (pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); BONDS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); MISSING PERSONS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



463 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE POLL; 
Public Voices Overwhelming Support for the Use of Force Against Terrorism

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
As they move from shock to fury, Americans are bracing for the United States to go to war, and they overwhelmingly say the nation should take military action against those responsible for the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
 That sentiment declines at the prospect that thousands of innocent civilians abroad could be killed. Still, a majority of Americans support engagement by the military even under those circumstances. 
 The crisis has spurred the public to put aside its past reservations about the leadership of President Bush and instead to rally wholeheartedly behind the relatively new president and express confidence in his ability to guide the nation. His job approval rating has soared to 84 percent, compared with 50 percent just over a month ago. 
Americans say they are ready to alter the way they live, and even sacrifice some of their own liberties, for safety considerations. They say they would be willing to arrive three hours early for domestic airline flights to pass through heightened security and would withstand long lines at public events and in public buildings to pass through metal detectors and inspections by guards.
The public also supports changing the law to allow for the assassination of people in foreign countries who commit terrorist attacks.
Although more than half the respondents said they did not think Arab-Americans were any more sympathetic toward terrorists than other Americans, the public is expecting a backlash against Arab-Americans, Muslims and immigrants from the Middle East.
The telephone poll of 959 adults nationwide was conducted on Thursday and Friday, as Americans were only beginning to digest the implications of the terrorist attacks and to ponder how the nation should respond. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
As the initial shock begins to dissipate, Americans are now turning toward thoughts of punishing the perpetrators. The poll did not ask who people think is the enemy or what specific action they envision. But in follow-up interviews many respondents in the Times/CBS poll said they backed military action, even if that meant American casualties.
"I don't like the idea of American lives being lost in a war," said Virginia Harrison, 56, a homemaker in Tallahassee, Fla., "but we can't just sit here and let them continue to do it because they will probably do it again."
Describing herself as "angry and outraged," Joy Hess, 58, a library clerk in Medford, Ore., said: "I'm not talking about revenge, but justice. I have a son in the military and I know loss of life is a risk. But there is no other way to get across that we mean business. We wouldn't be where we are now in history if we hadn't fought for our freedom. Freedom means losses sometimes."
It is not a huge surprise that Mr. Bush faces the most critical chapter of his presidency with a surge in his popularity. His 11 predecessors enjoyed sharp increases in support during crises. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's ratings skyrocketed. He was the earliest president about whom such surveys were taken. John F. Kennedy won great public support during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, as did Jimmy Carter when hostages were seized in Iran in 1979 and Mr. Bush's father, George Bush, in the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
Seven in 10 Americans now say President Bush is a strong leader, including 55 percent of Democrats. That is his highest rating since he became president, up from 54 percent in June.
In the follow-up interviews, several people said they were heartened that Mr. Bush had been turning to seasoned advisers.
"Even though I'm a Democrat, I approve of him," Mrs. Harrison said. "He's doing the best he can, and I'm sure he has a lot of advisers."
But there are no assurances that Mr. Bush's popularity will persist. His father's peak job approval of nearly 90 percent in March 1991 after the early success in the gulf war eroded as economic anxieties rose and the immediacy of war faded. His job approval tumbled to 37 percent just before the 1992 presidential election.
The most long-lived increases in public favor were the 30 weeks for President Roosevelt after Pearl Harbor, the 31 weeks for President Kennedy after the missile crisis and the 30 weeks for President Carter after the hostages were seized.
Underscoring the degree of commitment, 68 percent of Americans said they believed the United States would go to war.
Eighty-five percent said the United States should take military action against whoever is responsible for the attacks. Seventy-five percent of those people said the action should be mounted even if innocent people were killed. Almost all of them said they would favor going to war with a nation that was harboring those responsible for the attacks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARAB AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); METAL DETECTORS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); INSPECTIONS (75%); AIRLINES (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) BERKE, RICHARD L; ELDER, JANET 

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



464 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE HIDDEN VICTIMS; 
Those at Towers' Margin Elude List of Missing

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and MIREYA NAVARRO 

 BODY:
Most of the people listed as missing in the twin towers disaster were part of the World Trade Center's life as an elite corporate community. Determining who was missing among them after the terrorist attack, however painful, would not be that hard. And the most prominent would be mourned with much eloquence.
 But in the self-contained city that the trade center truly was, there were also many people -- undocumented immigrant deliverymen and Albanian window washers, Polish maintenance workers and single men and women without close family -- who may not appear on formal personnel records or whose absence might simply not register with enough people that someone would come forward to search. And the mourning for the immigrants with families, but without glamorous jobs, would be done in near anonymity. 
 And so the excruciating effort to fully document the dead that has gone on since last Tuesday, so far only modestly successful, will be all the more difficult when it comes to the universe of people who worked at the trade center's margins or inhabited its huge informal economy.
Part of the culture of the trade center, for example, depended on Mexicans and other immigrants -- many of them men supporting families back home -- who hustled breakfast orders to corporate offices, carried flowers to secretaries and washed dishes in the concourse restaurants. Estimates of the number of these workers who were in the towers last Tuesday morning range from a few dozen to as many as 10 or 15 times that number, according to a group that has been formed to search and interview survivors.
Some of the lost seem barely to have been known.
Carlos Bravo, a 26-year-old Mexican immigrant, was making pizzas at Akbar's Greenhouse Cafe, on the street level beneath the trade towers when disaster struck, and he escaped. Only a few minutes before, however, he said he saw two food delivery workers with orders for the office workers on the higher floors. Both were immigrants, Mr. Bravo said -- one of them here illegally. 
All Mr. Bravo knew about them was their first names and a few sparse facts: Humberto was married with a daughter and lived in Queens; Patricio, an Ecuadorean whose girlfriend was pregnant. "I never saw them again," Mr. Bravo said.
Various efforts are under way to document the undocumented -- to attach names, faces and perhaps stories to the invisible uncounted. The Polish Consulate in New York, for example, has been trying to find seven people -- all Polish citizens -- who were working at the trade center doing maintenance work. A spokesman for the consulate said that information from survivors suggests that all seven made it out, but no direct word has been received.
A group called the Tepeyac Association of New York -- an umbrella group of 40 Mexican immigrant organizations -- has put together a list of 29 Mexicans who are missing. But the group's executive director, Brother Joel Magallan, said he feared the number could be much higher based on survivor's reports. But he admits the numbers are pure speculation -- most Mexicans in New York, he said, are undocumented, and many work in the city's cash economy where paperwork is kept to the minimum.
But there are many other immigrants who were caught in the terror of the trade center disaster whose stories have remained mostly untold -- people who came to America to escape poverty, repression and war, and who made lives in mostly humble jobs. 
The service employees union local that represents about 1,000 maintenance workers at the twin towers has done an intensive phone canvas and found that 28 of its members are missing.
Jan Demczur, an immigrant from Poland who washed windows at the trade center, said his friend, Roko Camaj, adored his job, working on the roof of the north tower to maneuver the machinery that washed the building's 46,300 windows. Mr. Camaj, a 60-year-old ethnic Albanian who immigrated from Yugoslavia, loved working so high up, often telling his children that he felt he could touch the sky. 
"I can't imagine Roko's gone," Mr. Demczur said. "He was so happy that he had this job. He said, 'Nobody is going to take my job from me. I'm doing to die here.' And he died there."
Many immigrants coveted maintenance jobs at the trade center because the pay was considered excellent for unskilled workers -- at least $32,000 a year before overtime. 
Raysa Rodriguez, the sister of Esmerlin Salcedo, a 36-year-old security guard from the Dominican Republic, said one of his co-workers told her that Mr. Salcedo went back inside the towers after helping her escape. Mr. Salcedo, who had applied to become a police officer and was taking computer courses, left behind a wife, a 5-year-old daughter, a 4-year-old daughter and a 1-year-old son. "Like every other immigrant, he came for a better life," his sister said. "He achieved a better life."
Alexa Ortiz said her mother, Sonia, who immigrated from Colombia in 1971, was delighted to land a job as a trade center janitor two years later. 
"It paid good," she said. "Her English wasn't good and it was a job where she didn't have to talk much."
Eventually she was promoted to run the freight elevator at Windows on the World, the restaurant near the top of 1 World Trade. "She was so excited working in such a tall building near the sky," said Sonia's son, Victor, a building painter. "She had so much pride that King Kong was made there. She said she met Michael Jackson one day."
Through hard work and frugality, Sonia Ortiz, 58, bought a handsome, brick home in Flushing, where she lived with Alexa. In the dining room, Sonia had Lladro sculptures of fairy tale characters and place mats with angels, and in the living room, she had a gilded mirror and a coffee table made of petrified wood.
Alexa, who works as an assistant in a medical office, said her mother came to New York to escape poverty, after having worked as a seamstress as a child in Colombia. "She loved it here," said Alexa. After the 1993 trade center bombing, Sonia, known for her optimism, dismissed the idea of renewed terrorism, her children said. Colombia, they all agreed, was far more dangerous.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sonia Ortiz's children, Alexa and Victor, said she loved working at the trade center, where she ran the Windows on the World freight elevator.; Roko Camaj is searching for his father, Vincent, who worked on the World Trade Center's roof, maneuvering window washers' scaffolds.; Sal Gjonbalaj, left, and his brother Selim hold a picture of their missing father, Mon, who was a window washer at the World Trade Center. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); TERRORISM (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESTAURANTS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); REFUGEES (71%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; NAVARRO, MIREYA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



465 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE AIRLINES; 
In Early Economic Fallout, Major Carriers Cut Back

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK and LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Kevin J. Carlson has worn a lot of hats at Continental Airlines. He has taken passenger reservations, handled baggage, worked the gates, and he recently became a flight attendant, a job he loves. 
 But now he is worried he may become one of thousands of airline employees who lose jobs in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks. 
 "I won't kid you, it's a tough nut to swallow," Mr. Carlson said yesterday at Intercontinental Airport in Houston. "I didn't sleep last night." 
In an early sign of the economic fallout from the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Continental on Saturday became the first major airline to announce sweeping layoffs. Some 12,000 people will immediately lose their jobs, more than 20 percent of the carrier's work force.
Gordon M. Bethune, the chief executive of Continental, predicted 100,000 layoffs industrywide, noting the sharp decline in passenger reservations since the airlines gingerly returned to the skies on Thursday. Northwest, American and United have indicated that they plan to reduce their flight schedules by 20 percent, and US Airways is expected to announce a 25 percent cutback today. Airlines were operating at about two-thirds of their normal flight schedules yesterday.
The major airlines were working feverishly to come up with a new strategy to receive financial relief from Congress after a bill authorizing $12.5 billion in loan guarantees and $2.5 billion in grants failed in the House early Saturday.
In a conference call last night, the chief executives of the major carriers agreed to ask the government to suspend or to reduce ticket taxes and passenger service charges that airlines pay. They will also seek an immediate infusion of cash to cover losses suffered since planes were grounded on Tuesday.
One executive said the industry would not seek a specific amount of aid; another said it would seek the same $15 billion package that the House rejected over the weekend.
Several chief executives, including Mr. Bethune and Leo F. Mullin of Delta Air Lines, say that the industry may face widespread bankruptcies if the government does not intervene. Industry leaders said they planned to supply lawmakers with financial data to back up the claim.
In an interview broadcast on the CBS News television program "60 Minutes" last night, John F. Welch, the recently retired chairman of General Electric -- which makes and services jet engines and finances plane purchases -- said the government would need to help the carriers "in some way."
But on the same program, the investor Warren E. Buffett noted: "There have been a lot of airlines that have gone bankrupt without having the sort of events you've had in the last week. So we have to be very careful about any mass subsidization."
Several airline chief executives are expected to meet tomorrow with Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta and White House officials. Congress is not scheduled to reconvene until Thursday. "We hope there will be a bill produced quickly next week," an airline executive said.
Employees of the big carriers are hoping that their bosses are successful, given the latest shock to the industry, which rode a booming economy to new heights only to stumble into multibillion-dollar losses with this year's slowdown. 
"I think it's going to get a lot worse for the airlines," a pilot based at the Continental hub in Newark said. "If the U.S. government starts striking terrorists and the terrorists keep striking back," he said, "no one will be flying. People will be even more scared than they are now, even though right now is probably the safest time ever to fly. And if nobody's flying, there won't be any jobs."
Employees facing layoffs are grim about their prospects. "A lot of people are really, really scared," said Ami Doneff, who was working a triple shift at the Continental ticket counter at Newark airport yesterday. "There's a lot of single mothers with children. They'd lose benefits."
Jessica Santello, 27, was a supervisor of gate agents in Raleigh, N.C., for Midway Airlines, which filed for bankruptcy protection before last week's terrorist attacks and afterward shut down for good. "Everybody has just been in shock," she said. "Part-timers are trying to get full-time work at their other jobs, and most of us, though, just don't know what to do. I'm sitting here looking at the classifieds right now."
On Wednesday, the industry faced a 2 p.m. deadline for making quarterly payments of hundreds of millions of dollars in ticket taxes to the government. Eager to hold on to as much of their cash as possible after the grounding of flights, the airlines petitioned the Internal Revenue Service for relief; they received a letter at 1:50 p.m. stating that they would not be subject to a penalty if they deferred the payments.
They did.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Continental Airlines passengers lining up yesterday at Newark airport under new security measures. The carriers are thinning flights and jobs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); LAYOFFS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TERRORISM (76%); BUDGETS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TICKET SALES (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ;CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (58%); JACK WELCH (52%) BELLUCK, PAM; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; BETHUNE, GORDON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



466 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE CHAIRMAN; 
Wall Street's Driven Steward Presses for Business as Usual

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

 BODY:
The man who will try today to tug American finance back to its feet decided to place grief counselors on the trading floor of the stock market when it reopens this morning. Asked if he had sought any psychological help since his world collapsed on Tuesday, Richard A. Grasso, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, seemed startled. 
 "No, I don't need it," he replied sharply. He paused, and added, "My counseling is this: that Monday morning 9:30 bell." 
 As with many other disaster victims, Mr. Grasso repressed emotions to help focus on the task ahead. And his is more demanding than most: having pledged to reopen the stock market today even as rescue workers continue to search the rubble nearby for thousands of missing and dead, Mr. Grasso, 55, has overnight become the steward of Wall Street's attempt to return to business as usual. 
Since Tuesday, in countless phone conversations with colleagues, government and city officials and telecommunications experts, Mr. Grasso has raced to get the market's technology ready. In interviews and television appearances, Mr. Grasso has tried to improve the market's mood. 
The effort to coax investors to stay calm is spread out among numerous government officials and mandarins of finance, but Mr. Grasso's seems to reflect a personal and sometimes poignant lifelong mission. A little like Stevens, the devoted butler in Kazuo Ishiguro's novel "The Remains of the Day," Mr. Grasso appears unwilling to allow the possibility that his world may have been altered for good. 
In an interview on Saturday, Mr. Grasso suppressed his memories of the day Wall Street shattered, and instead recalled a small lapse of trading floor etiquette. 
"I had invited the directors of Bergen Brunswig to celebrate a merger by ringing the bell," Mr. Grasso recalled with a pained smile. "Very rudely, I never got to say hello to them." 
Visitors did not ring the bell at 9:30 a.m. to signal the start of tradingthat day because terrorist pilots plunged two hijacked airplanes into the World Trade Center not far from the stock exchange, a strike against Western capitalism that instantly and perhaps irrevocably changed Wall Street's way of life. 
Addressing financial reporters on Saturday who had gathered to watch him direct system tests of the trading floor, a vast space still infused with the acrid scent of wreckage, Mr. Grasso likened the crisis to the stock market crash of 1987. "Is this not just another one of those moments when America has been challenged, and will rise again?" 
Perhaps. There is no question that at this vulnerable moment, many New Yorkers are clinging to his composure and optimism, reassurances delivered in the clipped, confident accent of his native Queens. 
Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary who was once a top Goldman Sachs executive and now is co-chairman of Citigroup, has worked with Mr. Grasso, a career employee of the exchange, for more than 25 years, and said that his selection as chairman six years ago was unusual at the time, but now, fortuitous. 
"It's funny," Mr. Rubin said, "I was thinking about the fact that until Dick, the board always used to pick an industry statesman, but Dick is exactly what they need now, someone who knows the innards of how the floor operates. When I was at Goldman Sachs, whenever we had a problem, I said, 'Call Dick Grasso.' He is ideally suited to this."
Actually, the crisis has also cast Mr. Grasso as a statesman. 
A huge American flag covers almost the entire front of the New York Stock Exchange, distracting the eye from dust, bulldozers and broken glass.
Patriotism laces his every appeal for investors not to "bet against America." A red, white and blue ribbon was pinned to Mr. Grasso's lapel yesterday.
This weekend he gave a telephone interview to an NBC affiliate, asserting that the American economy "is as strong as it ever was in terms of resolve." (He shrugged off a recent "softening of the metrics.") Afterward, an anchorwoman at WNBC, Felicia Taylor, turned to her co-host on the air and praised his words as "so powerful and fortifying for everyone here." 
Brokers this weekend seemed hungry for his reassuring touch as he patted their backs and hugged old friends on the trading floor, crisp and dapper as always in a yellow cashmere pullover, pink and white striped shirt and Gucci moccasins.
"If the marketplace were to fold or blunder, we would be giving the terrorists who did this their third target," Joseph N. Cangemi, a trader who owns a seat on the exchange, said in a tone of angry desperation that the chairman does not permit himself. "Dick is the leader of the free market," he said of the chairman. 
"It's Dick's responsibility to be strong, but somewhere deep inside I think he feels the same worry and hurt as everyone else." 
Mr. Grasso, who grew up in lower-middle-class Elmhurst, bought his first share of stock at the age of 13 and began his career at the bottom rungs of the stock exchange in 1968 -- after two years in the United States Army. He worked his way up to executive positions that were then still the preserve of the WASP establishment. Appointed chairman in 1995, the first staff member ever to rise to the top of the New York Stock Stock Exchange, Mr. Grasso was once described by The Economist as "the public face of the American bull market." He relished the attention, bringing fashion models and, once, a cow to the opening-bell ceremony. 
Two summers ago, he traveled to Colombia to lecture leftist guerrillas about the merits of free-market capitalism. 
Until now, his greatest challenge as chairman was to modernize and protect the New York Stock Exchange, which still relies on floor traders and which is described by some critics as a quaint but archaic system tailored to preserve the privileges of its members. 
Mr. Grasso succeeded in defending incursions by computer trading systems like the archrival Nasdaq, but in the aftermath of Tuesday's attack, experts are once again questioning the viability of a system that keeps thousands of jobs in Lower Manhattan, but also requires brokers and specialists to assemble on a trading floor even though technology allows customers and brokers to buy and sell from remote sites.
Mr. Grasso defends his system just as staunchly as ever, focusing on clients' desire for human service as well as computer efficiency. 
"We want the software to do baggage handling and schedules," he explained, "but we want a real pilot to fly and land the plane." 
He then winced as the implications of his metaphor sunk in.
On Tuesday morning, Mr. Grasso got early word of the disaster, before it showed up on television screens, the kind of insider tip that comes with the job. He said that one of his vice presidents was in the exchange's office in the north tower of the World Trade Center and called him a few seconds after the first explosion. They instantly decided to evacuate their 133 employees from the trade center. By day's end, he said, all of his employees had found safety and been accounted for, but other colleagues, clients and friends still have not.
He recalled that his first outside call after the first plane struck was to the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Harvey L. Pitt, and so was the last one before calling it a day, after midnight. Mr. Grasso spent the day overseeing the chaos from a vantage point on the trading floor, a kind of elevated command center with telephones and televisions, and he fell asleep on a couch in his sixth-floor office that night. 
"I couldn't turn off my big TV," he admitted sheepishly, either because he was too tired or too stunned to maneuver the off button. "I fell asleep under this eerie light under the television." 
Asked whether, after Tuesday, he had gone outside to examine the smoldering ruins of the World Trade Center, Mr. Grasso looked alarmed by the question, replying sharply, "No." Asked why not, he seemed momentarily nonplused. 
"I have a lot to do here," he replied.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Grasso at the New York Stock Exchange, preparing to resume trading today. He has urged investors not to "bet against America." (Krista Niles/The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BONDS (78%); TERRORISM (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); GRIEF COUNSELING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); CITIES (67%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); AIRLINES (61%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; GRASSO, RICHARD A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



467 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE FLAG; 
U.S. Binds Wounds in Red, White and Blue

BYLINE:  By RICK BRAGG 

 BODY:
The signs of the pain inflicted by the terrorists span New York, from the dust cloud over the southern tip of Manhattan to the faces of the missing tacked onto walls in Greenwich Village to the thousands who watch heartbreaking images of the World Trade Center hulk on giant television screens in Times Square.
 But covering all that hurt, not only in New York but across the nation, are countless bandages in red, white and blue. In this city that is so often slow to show its feelings, the American flag bloomed in Manhattan and the boroughs, waved and worn by countless New Yorkers who wanted to do something, anything, to vent their anger and sorrow. 
 Tiny American flags fluttered from the radio antennas of taxis driven by men from Pakistan, Africa and Latin America. On the West Side Highway, a wall of people waved flags and cheered as rescue workers passed by. A bicyclist from Belgium, a florist from Korea, a Vietnam veteran from Puerto Rico, all flew the flag in Greenwich Village. Vendors hawked flags from Midtown sidewalks, patriotism at four bucks a pop. 
"Just as the terrorists know that we are watching them, we know that they are watching us," said Moses Davila, an unemployed teacher from Puerto Rico. "When they see us in the streets, wearing the flag, they know that we are not afraid of them, and that we will defeat them."
That sense of patriotism, and defiance, blanketed America.
In Miami, where the protests of the government's handling of the custody battle over Elian Gonzalez had included flag desecration (a tow-truck driver dragged the flag through the streets behind his truck), American flags blossomed from porches in Little Havana.
In California and the South, hardware and department stores sold out of flags. In the heartland, tiny flags fluttered like wildflowers in highway medians.
Mohammed Jaje, a cab driver from Pakistan who lives in Brooklyn, had one on his cab until someone took it on Friday night.
"I am not mad," Mr. Jaje said. "Maybe someone needed it. God bless America."
In Hammond, La., 60 miles northeast of New Orleans, Melissa Webb wore a T-shirt decorated with the flag on a shopping trip to the mall.
"We can't do anything to help them because we're down here," said Ms. Webb, 36, who works in a sporting goods store. At least, she said, she can fly the flag to show that her heart is with the rescue crews in New York.
Flag sightings were countless in the nation's capital, one of the biggest billowing from a staff lugged about the city by Joseph Doria, 82, a Filipino-American veteran of World War II.
"For years, I wave this flag in the streets and my neighbors think I'm crazy or a Communist," said Mr. Doria, who seemed in danger of toppling as he grasped a flag twice his size. "We divided and scattered after the war. But now, my friend, history repeats," he said of the terror attacks. "And we are learning America's heritage again."
Mr. Doria strutted off along the Mall, passing the Museum of American History where a woman pushing a stroller festooned with the Stars and Stripes entered an exhibit on the American presidency. A big banner proclaimed Harry S. Truman's observation: "Being president is like riding a tiger."
In Greenville, S.C., stores sold out of flags by the weekend. Home Depot and Wal-Mart did not have any left.
Around the city, thousands flapped in the wind, outside houses, on mailboxes, everywhere. It seemed that at least one in every three cars in Greenville had a flag on it, sometimes two.
Some did not have to shop for a flag. Bob Krause, a former marine, had flags that have been in the family for generations, flags that flew over old wars. Brock Sanders hung a 48-star American flag inherited from his grandfather who had flown it after Pearl Harbor was bombed.
On Peachtree Road in Atlanta, signs of patriotism marked almost every block -- flags flying at half-staff in Buckhead in front of Lenox Square and Phipps Plaza malls, at the Marta commuter train station. Expensive homes with neatly trimmed lawns have flags draped across the front door.
A red Cadillac with four large flags in each corner, its radio blaring "Stop, hey, what's that sound, everybody look what's going down," pulled out of Rocky's Italian Restaurant on Peachtree where a band was playing a "U.S.A. Jam" to raise money for the Red Cross. A woman walked out of a church on Peachtree wearing an antebellum-style Southern bonnet with red, white and blue ribbons.
Some telephone poles had homemade cardboard flags attached to them. Underneath one sign another one read "What's Next" in crude red lettering. Flags flew from high-rise buildings, apartments and construction sites. A sport utility vehicle was decorated with a homemade flag that looked as if it had been drawn by a child.
In one suburb, a house sported a freshly painted red, white and blue picket fence.
On a football weekend in the Deep South, cars that would normally have flown college flags now flew one, the same one.
In the heartland, the flag waved from the antennas of hot rods. In Brookville, Ohio, gasoline stations and the Holiday Inn pushed flags on two-foot sticks into their grounds. Hastily made paper flags appeared in windows of trailers and the homes of the wealthy. Flags appeared on the tops of buildings that had never before worn one. In Rockford, Rochelle and Le Roy, Ill., the flag hung at half-staff and from poles in front of courthouse squares, schools, town halls and police stations.
"There is hope in that familiar sight," wrote Carin Chappelow, in a column for The Journal Review, a daily newspaper with a circulation of 10,000 in Crawfordsville, Ind. The Wal-Mart there ran out of flags on Wednesday.
At the start of a prayer service in front of the courthouse in Crawfordsville, Glen Long, a member of the local Veterans of Foreign Wars, clutched three small flags. "Five minutes ago I had 48," Mr. Long said.
Near Washington, in the well-to-do, normally sedate Chevy Chase Village, on the northwest edge of the capital, six flags appeared on one block of Grafton Street. John Klein, a retired federal worker, usually puts one up on holidays. Mr. Klein's flag was there again. But there was another on the home of Laurence Alvarado, an executive of an accounting firm, and another at the home of Peter Yeo, a Senate aide, and at the home of Anne Urban, a consultant. Another waved across the street, from the stoop of Emilie Downs and Clark Evans Downs, a partner in a law firm in Washington. "Because of what happened," said Julia Downs, one of the couple's two college-age daughters.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DESTIN, FLA. -- Brian Thacker of Nashville and David Graves of Raleigh, N.C., used food coloring. (Mari Darr-Welch/The Northwest Florida Daily News); NEW YORK -- Street vendors, like this one in Lower Manhattan, offered flags of various sizes across the wounded city. (Justin Lane for The New York Times); CANTON, OHIO -- Police Officer Pete Kazakis was handing out flags. (Scott Heckel/The Repository); ARLINGTON, VA. -- Virginia Curtis used needle and thread at her home near the Pentagon. (Linda Spillers for The New York Times); A flag adorned the helmet of a firefighter in New York City. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); RETAILERS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); VETERANS (72%); WORLD WAR II (67%); VIETNAM WAR (67%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (63%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; CALIFORNIA; SOUTHERN STATES (US); MIAMI (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



468 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 31 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 An article on Friday about companies that might choose to move out of Lower Manhattan misstated the day the New York Stock Exchange was expected to reopen. It was today, not Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HIJACKING (89%); TERRORISM (86%); BONDS (86%); RELOCATIONS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); TRENDS (84%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; CORRECTION STORIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



469 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: THE ATTACKS: THE ASIAN MARKETS; 
Tokyo Index Dives and Japan Buys Dollars to Stem Yen Rise

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Japanese stocks plunged in afternoon trading today and the yen strengthened against the dollar as Japan nervously awaited the resumption of trading in New York.
 The benchmark Nikkei 225 was down 4.02 percent and sank to an 18-year low of 9,453 at one point. The broader Topix index was down 3.08 percent. Both recovered somewhat in the afternoon from sharper drops in early trading. 
 The dollar lost almost 1 percent of its value, trading at about 117 yen in early trading. At midday the Bank of Japan intervened, buying United States currency and strenghtening the dollar to as high as 117.91. 
On Sunday, Masajuro Shiokawa, Japan's finance minister, suggested that the Finance Ministry would step into currency markets to sell yen to prop up the dollar. He also said that he would urge the Bank of Japan at its monthly meeting on Tuesday to further relax monetary policy to maintain liquidity.
Adding to jitters today, the Kyodo news agency reported less than two hours before markets opened here that the Japanese government was searching for a dozen foreign Islamic extremists who came to Japan in early September. Acting on information supplied by "a foreign intelligence agency," Kyodo reported that the National Police Agency was searching airports, railroad stations and hotels for the extremists, who apparently flew to the country from Pakistan before Sept. 10. On Sept. 7, the United States Embassy in Tokyo warned that United States military installations in Japan and South Korea might become targets.
On Friday, Japan's securities watchdog said it was investigating trading about the time of Tuesday's terrorist attack on the United States to determine whether any transactions were linked to Osama bin Laden, the main suspect identified by the American government in the attacks. The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission said it was studying trading on the Tokyo and Osaka exchanges. The investigations come as Japan is struggling with the effect of the disruption of trans-Pacific flights. Even though flights to the United States resumed over the weekend, thousands of Japanese vacationers have canceled their plans, pushing down airline and travel company stocks. With half of Japan's imports from the United States arriving by air, prices have jumped for a range of food, including tuna and strawberries. Japan imports 60 percent of its food. With one-third of Japan's exports to the United States going by air, Japan's trade surplus is expected to continue its decline in September.
Last week, the Nikkei reacted to the attacks on New York and Washington by falling 6.6 percent on Wednesday, largely within the range of the drops in major European markets. But Japan carried the psychological freight of dropping below the 10,000 level for the first time since December 1983.
Trading on Thursday did not move the index appreciably. But on Friday, the index rebounded 4 percent, closing at 10,008. This rebound was largely attributed to the news that the Mycal Corporation, one of Japan's largest supermarket chains, was filing for bankruptcy after its lead lender, Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, decided to pull the plug on bad loans, which totaled $13.2 billion. Traders read the bankruptcy -- the second-largest nonfinancial collapse in Japanese corporate history -- as evidence that Japanese banks were starting to move to dispose of their huge bad loan portfolio.
With Japanese telecommunications stocks off in recent weeks, the Vodafone Group P.L.C., Europe's largest cell phone company, reportedly plans to announce today that it is starting a bid for majority control of Japan Telecom, the nation's third-largest cell phone company. Earlier this year, Vodafone raised its stake in Japan Telecom to 45 percent. Vodafone would reportedly spend about $1.7 billion to raise its stake to 67 percent. Shares of Japan Telecom were up 2.7 percent in early trading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); TERRORISM (87%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); AL-QAEDA (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); AIRPORTS (70%); HIJACKING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); MISSING PERSONS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); ESPIONAGE (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); EXPORT PRICES (65%); RELIGION (52%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (51%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; TERRORISM; CURRENCY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) BROOKE, JAMES; SHIOKAWA, MASAJURO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); OSAKA, JAPAN (59%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



470 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE MEDIA; 
Media Trying, With Dignity, to Stem Huge Losses in Advertising

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
Images of death, destruction and mourning make an unseemly backdrop for pitching new cars, beer brands or fancy vacations, and that awkwardness is creating a costly predicament for the media industry in the aftermath of last week's terrorist attacks.
 Industry analysts estimate that the broadcast and cable television networks and stations have lost from $40 million to $100 million a day from Tuesday, when they began uninterrupted coverage of the attacks and rescue efforts, to Saturday morning, when the first network began gingerly interspersing a few commercials amid its news. Until recently, the television industry expected to sell about $53 billion in advertising this year. 
 In the magazine industry, Time, Newsweek and U.S. News & World Report all devoted costly special issues, free of advertising, to the attacks.
Many magazines and newspapers have lost other revenue as companies pulled or postponed their planned advertisements. And film studios and book publishers hoping to plug their latest releases have been squeezed out of the airwaves and public attention. 
Some say the gloom may lift as people return to their daily routines or seek relief through entertainment. Although theater attendance was low on Friday night, crowds flocked to the escape of the movies on Saturday. 
The weekend's box office returns -- $49.9 million for the top 10 movies -- was 13 percent below the previous weekend's total, 44 percent above the corresponding weekend last year. 
On Saturday morning, the television networks began testing viewers' reactions to the return of commercials. Some networks began broadcasting a few childrens' programs with ads before returning to the news. That same day, on "Today" and "The Nightly News," NBC, part of the General Electric Company, began inserting commercials into news coverage of the attacks.
No one knows how long the depressing effects of the attack on advertising and consumer enthusiasm might linger. The situation is unprecedented in the annals of the mass media. Unlike other national crises like the remote, short-lived and triumphant Persian Gulf war, the current situation is as disturbingly close to home as the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and as potentially open-ended as the Vietnam War.
During the gulf war, the extended periods of wall-to-wall, commercial-free news coverage were broken by returns to normal programming. Even so, there were often fewer commercials as advertisers cut back on spending or pulled potentially inappropriate images of war or even Arabs. Network programmers also felt sensitivity required less onerous commercial loads. That year, 1991, advertising spending fell 1.2 percent from 1990, the last fall in advertising.
The loss in revenue is all the more painful because this year the media industry is already suffering from one of the steepest drops in decades. Advertising is projected to fall more than 6 percent from last year after the end of the Internet boom. And the sudden squeamishness about commercial activity also bodes ill for consumers' inclinations toward indulgent diversions like shopping during the coming holiday season.
"We know consumer confidence levels are bad," said Lauren Rich Fine, an analyst at Merrill Lynch who follows newspaper publishers. "They were bad before this happened. It's really bad now." 
"I don't know if advertisers think they can spend and get consumers to come in. They don't know if there's going to be prolonged military action."
Some executives say they now see a patriotic purpose in returning to the airwaves, to demonstrate that terrorists cannot scare the country into altering its way of life.
"The president wants us to show we'll be getting back to business," said Anne Doyle, a spokeswoman for Ford in Dearborn, Mich.
In a survey conducted on Thursday by Eisner Communications, a Baltimore ad agency, 70 percent said they did not think it was appropriate for ads to be discontinued or reduced in light of the attacks.
Also, 79 percent of respondents said the government should encourage citizens to return to normal life and business as usual as quickly as possible, and 82 percent said they wished to do so.
But any selling is complicated now, said Peter Seeley, adjunct professor of marketing at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley because, while advertising is a customary part of doing business, "on the other hand, you cannot seem callous."
" 'We love to make you smile' and 'Life tastes good' -- you clearly can't do that," he added, referring to the respective campaigns for McDonald's and Coca-Cola.
The television networks incurred the biggest financial losses by suspending their commercials in their all-news coverage for the last week, at a particularly sensitive time. "We are in the worst ad market in history," said Jack Myers, chief economist for the newsletter publisher Myers Reports. "And you are at the point in time when the networks were beginning to increase their their advertising rates because they were moving into the fall season."
The major networks have each delayed the start of the season, which Mr. Myers said were likely to result in lower ratings and further revenue losses. 
But luring back advertisers will not be easy. "The airlines and the financial services guys don't really want to go on the air, and the people with the happy-life commercials don't want to be there," said Jon Nesvig, president for sales at Fox Broadcasting. "People are trying to make sure their commercials are as appropriate as can be. We will probably see more patriotic, responsive commercials in the near future."
Mr. Myers said advertisers of all kinds will be reluctant to spend money on fall schedules almost certain to be pre-empted regularly by news coverage, much of it likely to be horrific and heartbreaking.
"As we look forward to the next weeks and months of war, there will be continued disruption of the schedules,"' he said, "which makes advertisers reluctant to launch campaigns knowing at any time you could have networks going over to 24-hour, advertiser-free coverage."
On Friday, Paul Rittenberg, senior vice president for ad sales at the Fox News Channel in New York, said he had commitments from only 30 of the network's 200 regular advertisers for the week ahead.
"You can't just pretend you're going back to selling Wheaties," he said. "It's hard to do a feel-good campaign when so many people are hurting."
Mr. Rittenberg said some of the largest advertisers, however, were returning to the fold, like Procter & Gamble and FedEx.
"You know, with a normal crisis, if there is such a thing, with something containable, you can say here's what we've lost, here's what we can make good, here's our exposure," he said. "This is completely open ended. It's a substantial hit."
Of course, times of war and crisis are when journalistic reputations are made. Americans have rarely immersed themselves more thoroughly in news media than in the hours and days after the attack. "You can sell everything you can print," said W. Dean Singleton, the chief executive of the Media News Group, whose flagship newspaper is The Denver Post.
But the expanded readership does not make advertisers less squeamish. "There's been a tremendous amount of advertising canceled," Mr. Singleton said. "Who is going to buy a car this weekend? Anyone who even thought about hiring anyone and running a help-wanted ad isn't going to run it this weekend. Obviously airlines aren't buying ads because they aren't flying much. Almost every category is getting hammered."
Ed McCarrick, publisher of Time magazine, part of AOL Time Warner, said the magazine had canceled commitments from several planned advertisers for space they pulled out of its Monday issue, dedicated to attack news. "Even though there might be an expense to us we feel this is part and parcel of what we do to build advertisers' relationships with us," he said. "This is a time when clients are trying to figure out what their message should be. You are sort of in uncharted water right now."
Most executives at the major media companies said it was too soon to tell the lasting effects.
But Michael D. Eisner, chairman of Walt Disney, which owns ABC, said he remained sanguine. "I am not sure this is a sky-is-falling scenario," he said. "There is no country whose economy is as strong as the United States, and there is no business as strong as the entertainment business in the United States." 
In an encouraging sign, Mr. Eisner said, a Disney cruise ship departed from Florida late last week with a full load of 2,200 passengers, even though many had to travel from as far away as Chicago and California and their flights had been canceled. 
"We expected nobody would be on the ship," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Advertisers have searched for the right tones to take since last week. (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FILM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); DESERT STORM (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (75%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ASSASSINATION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MISSING PERSONS (69%); TICKET SALES (68%); VIETNAM WAR (61%); BOOK PUBLISHING (53%) TERRORISM; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION; MEDIA; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MISSING PERSONS; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (81%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (70%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (81%); GEC (LSE) (81%); GE (SWX) (81%); GE (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%) KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D; ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (67%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



471 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: In This Section 

 BODY:
 RESPONDING TO TERRORISM

Pakistan will send high-ranking military officers to Afghanistan today to demand that the Taliban government arrest Osama bin Laden and his top associates and hand them over to the United States. A1

The Bush administration is preparing a powerful military strike if the Taliban, as expected, refuse to hand over bin Laden and shut down his terrorist network. A1

President Bush and his senior advisers tell Americans to prepare for a new form of war to combat "a new kind of evil." A2

Americans overwhelmingly say the nation should take military action against those responsible for the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, a New York Times/CBS News Poll shows. A5

Attorney General John Ashcroft and Congressional leaders open talks on an emergency package of antiterrorism legislation that would expand the Justice Department's ability to use wiretaps in cases of suspected terrorism or espionage. A5

A sense of patriotism and defiance blankets America. A1

THE INVESTIGATION

Federal authorities have flown four people to New York City for questioning in connection with last Tuesday's terrorist attacks, including a man who was arrested in Minnesota in August on a passport violation not long after he sought training on a flight simulator for jetliners. A4

A small technical university in Hamburg, Germany, unknowingly harbored a cell of Islamic fundamentalists that included at least three of the hijackers who carried out and perished in the terrorist attacks. A4

THE ECONOMY

An informal coalition of government and business implores the leaders of Wall Street to do what they can as a patriotic duty to keep the stock markets from tumbling when they reopen this morning. A1

Richard A. Grasso, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, becomes the steward of Wall Street's attempt to return to business as usual. A1

PRAYERS AND GOODBYES

Americans are reacting to the tragedy with a spiritual search. A9

Sermons in houses of worship across the country strike a common chord, denouncing the violence as evil. A8

Social service agencies are preparing for the time when families realize that a loved one has died. A11

Profiles of some of the victims. A10

Tributes to one of the tragic heroes, a passenger aboard the hijacked United Airlines Flight 93. A11

THE RECOVERY EFFORT

New York City will form a reconstruction commission with extraordinary powers. A6

Mayor Giuliani leads an emotional Fire Department ceremony promoting 168 officers and firefighters to replace a command structure that collapsed along with the twin towers. A7

The New York City Police Department has managed to recover and respond, not only to the disaster, but also to the demands of policing the rest of the city. A7

The rescue work continues, but no survivors have been pulled from the rubble for days. A12

Cleaning up in Battery Park City, a 92-acre complex in the shadow of the ruined World Trade Center. A7

For the truckers at ground zero, the rescue operation has become a job, and a funeral procession of sorts. A1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (71%); AIRLINES (70%); RELIGION (70%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (70%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); WIRETAPPING (68%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); DEATHS (60%); ESPIONAGE (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



472 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE MAGAZINES; 
Editors Rush to Revise Long-Made Plans

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
Whether at newsweeklies or women's magazines, editors scrambled last week to make their next issues relevant: to give voice to the terrors of the World Trade Center disaster and to provide context for articles that might otherwise seem callous or irrelevant.
 The task was hardest for the monthlies, like Good Housekeeping, which usually send their magazines to the printers weeks before they hit the newsstands. 
 Ellen Levine, the editor in chief of Good Housekeeping, consulted the archives to see what had been published after Pearl Harbor and subsequently during World War II to review how the magazine, owned by the Hearst Corporation, had covered that period. "It was the only thing I could think to do," she said. 
She did not find many solutions for the November issue, which was already at the printer and will arrive in 3.5 million subscriber's mailboxes in early October. But she and her team finally decided to bind a memorial card into the front of each copy, a note from the editors saying in part, "We share the sorrow so many Americans are feeling."
The next challenge for Ms. Levine is the magazine's Christmas issue, now in the works. With a military response to the terrorist attacks possible, trying to anticipate the mood of this country two months from now is difficult, Ms. Levine said. "The Christmas edition is usually uplifting," she said, "and yet how can you go into Christmas like that now?"
Her solution was to call back some pages that had already been produced and change the lineup of features. "We yanked random stories about what to wear to parties and assigned stories that reflect the tragedy."
In Good Housekeeping's October issue, already on the newsstands before the attacks, there is a profile of Mike Zeller, a 36-year-old New York City policeman who saved his wife's life. In the wake of the trade center disaster, "we have gotten more than a dozen calls from readers wanting to see if he is all right," she said (he is). "People are just reaching out."
Meanwhile at Vogue, the premiere fashion monthly owned by Conde Nast, the editor in chief, Anna Wintour, intends to show strong support for the American fashion industry and is planning to have references to it on the cover of the November issue, which may mean revising what is currently scheduled. "We want to be extremely positive, since the American collections were so hurt by the disaster," she said, referring to the cancellation of the annual Fashion Week, which was to have been held around Manhattan. And she said this issue would have an article on Berry Berenson Perkins, who was a passenger aboard the first jetliner to hit the World Trade Center last week. Ms. Perkins was a photographer for Vogue and other publications in the 1970's.
Magazines with twice-a-month frequency also examined their options. Forbes grappled with the problem of putting out a magazine that some might consider in poor taste in the current context: the annual Forbes 400 compilation of the nation's wealthiest people.
Although the editors discussed revising the issue -- typically among Forbes's best known and most profitable of the year -- the magazine, published by the family-owned Forbes Inc., was already at the printer last Tuesday. Minor changes were possible, but pulling the issue altogether was not, said the editor in chief, Steve Forbes, who said he wrote about the attacks in his editorial and "shoehorned" in other references.
"Our next regular issue will have prospective and thoughtful analysis about what this means for the American and global economy," Mr. Forbes added.
In fact, Mr. Forbes scrambled to find a way to make the issue relevant. 
"The 400 list really celebrates the values of creativity and freedom, mobility and opportunity," he said. "It is the essence of democratic capitalism and the opposite of their agenda," he said, referring to the terrorists.
The weeklies have, of course, the most flexibility, and they took full advantage of it. The three major American newsweeklies -- Time, Newsweek and U.S. News & World Report -- rushed to put out special issues last week that carried no advertising. And all three planned to devote the bulk of the next regularly scheduled issues to the crisis.
"I have been at this for 20 years, and there are none of us working here that can honestly say this is not the biggest story we have ever seen," said Richard Folkers, a spokesman for U.S. News, which is owned by the real estate developer Mortimer B. Zuckerman.
As for putting out a special issue, "The question is not can we do this, but how can we not?" Mr. Folkers added. "Our editor, Brian Duffy, said: 'It doesn't matter what beat you are on. We just need people to work the phones, do reports and get involved.' "
Sports Illustrated said that its next issue, which reaches newsstands on Wednesday, will have an emphasis on the attacks' effect on sports and sports figures. Among the articles under consideration is one on Garnet Bailey and Mark Bavis, hockey scouts for the Los Angeles Kings, who were on the second plane that crashed into the World Trade Center. Sports Illustrated, like Time, is a part of the Time Inc. unit of AOL Time Warner. Newsweek is part of the Washington Post Company.
At The New Yorker, the editor, David Remnick, had four days after last Tuesday to completely revise his story list. As a result, almost the entire issue will be devoted the World Trade Center attack.
"Almost all of the front of the book will be devoted to this, with pieces by Toni Morrison and John Updike," Mr. Remnick said. For space reasons, the magazine, owned by Conde Nast, is postponing some fiction.
And for one of the few times in The New Yorker's history, "there will be no cartoons," Mr. Remnick said. The back page will contain a poem by the Polish poet Adam Zagajewski: "Try to Praise the Mutilated World."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some magazines had time to focus their issues on the attack, in ways subdued or startling. But others were at the printers, and had time only to insert memorial cards. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (87%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); HIJACKING (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (65%); FASHION SHOWS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); AIRLINES (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MAGAZINES 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



473 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE INVESTORS; 
Bracing for Reaction When Trades Resume

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
For a nation that became enamored of the stock market over the last decade, investing seemed a trivial, even forgotten pursuit, over the last week. Yet as the market prepared to reopen after a strike to the heart of Wall Street, investors faced an unavoidable question: What should I do now?
 Precedents are of limited value. Bullish advice may be dusted with patriotism, bearishness exaggerated by fear. So many professional investors and money managers are retreating to the most basic kind of guidance: Hold tight. 
 On his brokerage company's Web site, Charles Schwab has maintained the same message since Tuesday: "invest for the long-term" and "keep your cool during the rough times"; callers heard him reading the same message while they were on hold. 
Similarly, John J. Brennan, chief executive of the Vanguard Group, the nation's second-largest mutual fund company, wrote on his firm's Web site, "Regardless of how the financial markets respond to the news of the day, investors rarely are well served by hasty decisions."
Some experts sought to divine the immediate prospects for stocks by examining investors' responses to past crises. 
A study by Ned Davis Research of the market's reaction to 28 crises from 1940 to 1998 -- events like Pearl Harbor, the assassination of John F. Kennedy and the start of the gulf war -- found that the Dow Jones Industrial Average, on average, initially fell about 5 percent. But after about four months, the Dow rose 5.1 percent.
Citing the study, Keith Banks, chief investment officer for Fleet Asset Management, said, "I'd be surprised if we didn't see the markets open down 5 to 8 percent out of the box. That'll be a knee jerk," he added. "At some point, people will step in and begin a buying process."
Many investors, of course, had already started shifting from stocks to bonds and other conservative investments this year as the stock market continued its protracted retreat. When bond trading resumed Thursday, investors renewed that flight with a new vigor, sending the yield on two-year Treasury notes to their lowest level in decades.
But there have been few signs of panic. Activity at Fidelity Investments, Schwab and Vanguard has been exceedingly light, the firms said, with most customers seemingly preoccupied with the news. 
There are forces at work that could increase the chances of a rebound. Vice President Dick Cheney, on television on Sunday, urged Americans to "stick their thumb in the eye of the terrorists" by maintaining "their normal level of economic activity." The Securities and Exchange Commission said last week that it would temporarily ease restrictions that limit companies and executives from buying shares of their own stock. And many analysts expect that the Federal Reserve will quickly cut interest rates again. 
Meanwhile, in e-mail chain letters and on message boards, a grass-roots campaign, echoed by Washington, is under way, best summed up by one of the electronic messages: "Fight back. Buy Stock."
Many of Wall Street's most prominent forecasters -- the likes of Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman, Sachs and Thomas Galvin of Credit Suisse First Boston -- were silent last week, in the immediate wake of the attacks. 
Among those who did speak out, there was obvious concern -- partly because the world's major economies were already weak, partly for fear that Sept. 11 was only the beginning of a period of volatility.
"A global recession had, hitherto, been averted by the resilience of the U.S. consumer," said Edward Kerschner, chief market strategist of UBS Warburg, in a note to clients on Wednesday. "But sadly, such resilience will be severely tested over the coming months."
For certain sectors of the stock market -- airline stocks, for example -- the concerns are obvious. 
American Airlines, United Airlines, Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines all have said they would eliminate 20 percent of their flights. Continental's chief executive, who on Saturday said that he would furlough 12,000 workers, warned that several major carriers could go bankrupt by year's end without a bailout from Washington.
"Airline revenues are going to be hit, and their costs are going to be higher," said Douglas D. Ramos, who manages four mutual funds for the Dreyfus Corporation. "They're going to get a double hit, because there's going to be a huge curtailing of people wanting to travel."
Other industries are expected to suffer, too. 
For example, property and casualty insurers, along with the reinsurance companies that back them, face claims that could run as high as $30 billion to $40 billion. And not all the victims are obvious: General Electric warned that its third-quarter earnings would come in below estimates because of World Trade Center-related claims of possibly $600 million facing its Employers Reinsurance Corporation subsidiary.
Some industries can expect to benefit from the turmoil. The shares of defense contractors like Northrop Grumman and Lockheed Martin often rise when war is in the air. Oil companies like ExxonMobil and Chevron could go up, too; though OPEC countries have promised to keep oil flowing, events could lead to volatility in supplies, which usually adds to oil company profits. 
Predictions about the market's behavior, though, may run smack into individual investors who choose to ignore traditional market logic. 
Gloria Dittus, who runs a Washington public relations firm, started one of the chain e-mails urging Americans to buy stock. "I'll buy 100 shares of American Airlines, because my brother is a pilot," Ms. Dittus said. "I don't care if I lose money. It's a statement."

GRAPHIC: Photos (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ASSASSINATION (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); WEB SITES (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); HIJACKING (65%); TERRORISM (62%); AIRLINES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); FMR CORP (57%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (72%); DICK CHENEY (50%) HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



474 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Yes, New York Will Prosper Again, but It Needs More Than Moral Support

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
THE mayor says New York City will be better than ever. And some day it surely will be, because New York never stays down for the count -- never. But before the city and the region recover from last week's terrorist assault, they are destined to go through a tough time.
 Terrorism not only seeds pain and chaos, it spreads fear, paralyzes ordinary life and business. Though New York's leaders, intent on building confidence, don't want to talk about it in detail yet, the city's economy is shaky after a period of prosperity so long that young people never knew tough times, cannot imagine a city that is fearful, that is not forever shining like the lights of Times Square. 
 "My daughter is a little metaphor," Senator Charles E. Schumer said yesterday. "She's been going to this beautiful school, Stuyvesant. Everything's been great." But the high school, not far from the site of the suicide attacks, is now part of the rescue effort, and its students have to commute to Brooklyn Technical High School. "She's not sure where her records are, she's not sure of where anything is right now," Mr. Schumer said.
Neither is New York City. Although it is planning the remarkable reopening of the stock market today, it cannot confidently predict its income and does not know how much adrenaline it will get from the $20 billion in federal money for New York that Mr. Schumer and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton got from President Bush (and another $20 billion for security nationwide) .
Officials are fighting to keep businesses from fleeing the city or to lure them back. And that, too, will cost money. The city cannot possibly raise taxes, or predict the psychological impact of the attacks. "The city is not perceived as safe," said one elected official who would not speak for attribution because he feared sounding "like a doomsayer."
Public officials and economists are quietly saying that no matter how spectacularly Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani rallies New York -- and the mayor has earned the respect of even his harshest critics -- the city is in for a period as bad as the shaky years after the stock market's downturn in 1987, when offices went begging for tenants and there were more taxis than passengers. 
The country is supportive, but moral support will not make people want to rebuild or set up shop in New York or help a small business without the resources of a multinational company to find new offices. Nor will it make up for lost revenues, costly needs or understandable fears -- especially since Mr. Giuliani, his staff and most of the rest of city government leave in three months because of term limits. 
The timing even fueled a buzz about having the State Legislature find a way to extend Mr. Giuliani's term, but since that would give terrorists the power to upset a democratic election, the idea has seemed to fade. That leaves two mayors -- this one and the next -- to help New Yorkers come back from unspeakable heartache, and to rebuild more than the physical city.
THE numbers are daunting.
There were at least 50,000 jobs in the World Trade Center complex alone, and as many as 50,000 additional jobs in surrounding buildings. Workers in related businesses are affected, too, for now -- accountants and lawyers who worked for the financial companies in the trade center complex, restaurant workers, taxi drivers.
Revenues from personal income taxes, real estate and other business taxes will inevitably drop. So will the economic benefits of jobs lost throughout the region as the airlines industry cuts back -- and income lost from fewer tourists.
Alair A. Townsend, a former city budget director, is concerned. "I think there will be an enormous economic jolt," said Ms. Townsend, now publisher of Crain's New York Business.
"The mayor, I suspect, will have to look for cuts everywhere," she said, but on reflection predicted that the cuts would be concentrated because the city cannot possibly touch police, fire and sanitation services now. Some city officials predict a budget deficit growing to as much as $5 billion over the next few months.
There are optimistic developments, too. Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, pointed out yesterday that a few businesses forced to relocate had found space and are buying new equipment and furniture. "And if there is a ray of sunshine, the city is not the enemy of the rest of the country any more," he said.
That might help, that and the long view. Enzo Panebianco, a hansom cabby since the late 1970's, is not worried. "There are good times and there are bad in New York." he said yesterday in Central Park. "It will be O.K. People want to forget." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); TERM LIMITS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (60%); AIRLINES (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%) PURNICK, JOYCE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



475 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
Bush Warns of a Wrathful, Shadowy and Inventive War

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
A day after proclaiming flatly that the nation was "at war," President Bush and his senior advisers took pains to warn Americans today that it would be a war unlike any other, fought in the shadows, testing the patience of the public and leaders alike, but that nations failing to join the crusade would face the "full wrath of the United States," as Vice President Dick Cheney put it.
 "This is a new kind of evil," Mr. Bush said at the White House after a weekend war council with senior aides at Camp David, "and we understand, and the American people are beginning to understand, this crusade, this war on terrorism, is going to take a while, and the American people must be patient." 
 "We will rid the world of the evil-doers," Mr. Bush said, adding a moment later, "They have roused a mighty giant, and make no mistake about it, we're determined." 
As if to acknowledge the surreal sense of both tumult and Sunday calm in the capital, Mr. Bush added: "Oh, there will be times when people don't have this incident on their minds; I understand that. There'll be times down the road where citizens will be concerned about other matters, and I completely understand that. But this administration, along with those friends of ours who are willing to stand with us all the way through, will do what it takes to rout terrorism out of the world." 
In his first public remarks since Tuesday's terrorist attacks, Mr. Cheney offered chilling new details today, saying that Mr. Bush had authorized military pilots to intercept and shoot down any commercial airliner that tried to penetrate airspace over Washington after the attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade Center towers. The Pentagon scrambled fighter jets to track a hijacked jetliner headed toward Washington, but the plane crashed in Pennsylvania, possibly after a struggle between passengers and the hijackers.
Officials said that Ronald Reagan National Airport, just across the Potomac River in Virginia, would not reopen soon, and some suggested that it be permanently closed to commercial air traffic because its flight paths cross within seconds of virtually all important government buildings and monuments.
Speaking on the NBC program "Meet the Press," Mr. Cheney echoed other senior officials in declaring that nations harboring terrorists like Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in last week's attacks, would face "the full wrath of the United States."
At the same time, Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell made it clear that Washington was reaching out to an unlikely range of potential allies, including Pakistan, India and possibly even Iran, which has been listed by the State Department as the world's most active sponsor of state-supported terrorism.
Secretary Powell said that United States officials expected to contact Taliban leaders in Afghanistan to demand they expel Mr. bin Laden's organization, which has been operating there for several years. "They must help us destroy this organization," Secretary Powell said.
Mr. Cheney warned that the coming conflict would have to be fought "in the shadows" with the help of unsavory intelligence sources, and despite a 1976 executive order banning assassinations by the government, said he saw nothing to prevent the United States from killing Mr. bin Laden if it could find him. Asked by the "Meet the Press" moderator, Tim Russert, if he would like Mr. bin Laden's "head on a platter," Mr. Cheney replied, "I would take it today."
As Wall Street nervously prepared to reopen on Monday, Mr. Cheney said the country "quite possibly" could experience war and recession at once. But he also said, "I would hope the American people would, in effect, stick their thumb in the eye of the terrorists and say they've got great confidence in the country, great confidence in our economy, and not let what's happened here in any way throw off their normal level of economic activity."
In other ways, change was clearly in the wind. Attorney General John Ashcroft met with leading legislators to seek support for an emergency package of antiterrorism bills, including one that calls for a significant expansion of the Justice Department's ability to use wiretaps in cases of suspected terrorism or espionage. Under the proposal, investigators would have broad authority to conduct so-called roving electronic surveillance of suspected terrorists as they moved from one telephone or computer terminal to another. Other elements call for new authority to fight money-laundering and punish those who harbor terrorists.
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, speaking on "Fox News Sunday," said simply, "It's a new kind of war," adding: "It will be political, economic, diplomatic, military. It will be unconventional, what we do."
Mr. Cheney, Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Powell all said, in the clearest terms yet, that evidence pointed to Mr. bin Laden and his Al Qaeda organization as responsible for last week's attacks. But speaking in phrases that echoed each other and were clearly coordinated, they also emphasized that other groups, including the Islamic Jihad in Egypt and a terrorist cell in Uzbekistan, are also a threat.
"There is no question but that he is a prime suspect," Mr. Rumsfeld said. "The Al Qaeda organization, however, is a large, multiheaded effort that probably spans 60 countries, including the United States, and it is much bigger than one person, and the problem is much broader."
The Navy destroyer Cole, damaged in Yemen last October in a terrorist attack linked by military officials to Mr. bin Laden, was quietly reactivated on Friday in Pascagoula, Miss., the Navy said.
Mr. Cheney went out of his way to say that so far American intelligence had turned up no evidence of Iraqi involvement in the attacks last week, and Secretary Powell said that officials were exploring whether Iran, which the United States severed relations with in 1980, could be helpful in fighting this new war.
The administration has drafted a special message to the Iranian government saying that Iran can join the fight against terrorism but to do so must change its policies, a senior administration official said today.
But a decision had not yet been made by Secretary Powell or the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, to send the message, the official said.
The message says that the Iranians cannot be selective about which terrorists they oppose. Iran considers the Taliban a bitter enemy but at the same time is a major backer of other terrorist groups, like the Hezbollah in Lebanon.
In Iran, Tehran's mayor, Morteza Alviri, and Mohammad Atrianfar, the head of Tehran's city council, sent a letter of condolence to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, the first government-to-government communique in two decades, a gesture that hinted of possible Iranian cooperation against terrorism. 
"Undoubtedly, this act is not just against New Yorkers, but all humanity," the letter said, according to reports on the front pages of many of today's newspapers in Tehran.
In his comments on the White House lawn today, Mr. Bush emphasized his discussions with three nations: Pakistan, India and Saudi Arabia. He noted that the general who took over in Pakistan not long ago, Pervez Musharraf, has been particularly helpful, and administration officials say that a delegation is being sent to Pakistan with a list of specific requests. He did not detail them.
"The leader of Pakistan has been very cooperative," Mr. Bush said. He also had kind words for the leader of Pakistan's avowed enemy, India. The National Security Council said today that Mr. Bush spoke this morning with Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India, who offered condolences and a promise of support. India today turned over much of the intelligence it has gathered about the Taliban and other terrorist groups, including some it blames for terror on its own territory, officials said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We will rid the world of the evildoers," President Bush said yesterday on the White House lawn after returning from a war council at Camp David. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); HIJACKING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); AIRLINES (86%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); AIRPORTS (68%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (63%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (63%); CLOSINGS (60%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PURDUM, TODD S; CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAN; PAKISTAN; INDIA

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



476 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: CONGRESS; 
Lawmakers Hear Ashcroft Outline Antiterror Plans

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON and ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
Attorney General John Ashcroft and Congressional leaders opened talks today on an emergency package of antiterrorism legislation that would expand the Justice Department's ability to use wiretaps in cases of suspected terrorism or espionage.
 At hastily arranged meetings with lawmakers and their senior staffs, Mr. Ashcroft presented administration proposals that would expand the ability of law enforcement officials to conduct electronic surveillance of terrorist suspects rather than of specific telephones or computer terminals. 
 Mr. Ashcroft, who returned to Washington from meetings with President Bush at Camp David, said in television appearances and at a briefing for reporters that he wanted new powers to fight money laundering and to establish penalties for those who harbor terrorists. 
"It's easier to investigate someone involved in illegal gambling schemes than it is to investigate someone involved in terrorism," Mr. Ashcroft said. "Telephone surveillance has been limited historically to specific telephones, rather than to people."
In an era of disposable phones and Internet cafes, he said, "it simply doesn't make sense to have the surveillance authority associated with the hardware or with the phone instead of with the person or the terrorist."
The talks at the Justice Department were the second time in days that Congress had moved toward expanding law enforcement powers -- expansions that many members of Congress had long resisted as an intrusion on civil rights.
Late Thursday, in a hasty amendment to a spending bill, the Senate voted to make it easier for law enforcement officials to track suspects' communications on the Internet without having to obtain multiple search warrants.
Today, after the session at the Justice Department, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said a critical question would be how the department chooses to define terrorism.
"There are some definitions of terrorism you would find that many on the right would be very concerned about," he said. "Others many on the left would be concerned about. This is not a question of dealing with someone who owns a gun club or is an anti-abortion protester or a demonstrator against the government."
Mr. Leahy said he would be open to revising the wiretapping laws to keep up with technological change. 
Kori Bernards, a spokeswoman for Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, said Mr. Gephardt considered the session "constructive." Eric Ueland, the chief of staff to Senator Don Nickles, the Senate Republican whip, said, "Congress will do everything it can consistent with the Constitution to give the president and the administration the tools they need."
Privacy rights groups expressed concern today, saying they might not oppose some expansion of the wiretapping authority but worried that Congress was moving too precipitously. James X. Dempsey of the Center for Democracy and Technology, a privacy rights group, said, "Despite the crisis, it makes sense to get this right."
Members of Congress were also in behind-the-scenes talks to consider how to to help the crippled airlines, and were working on an economic stimulus package that would encourage broader industry investment.
The swirl of activity showed how drastically the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon have altered the Congressional agenda, with the parties' competing domestic proposals placed on hold and disagreements muted. A new set of security and economic matters were expected to become all-consuming.
Aides said this means that an array of issues that inflame partisan differences were likely to be put aside, perhaps until next year. Those issues include patients' rights legislation, an overhaul of the campaign finance laws, Medicare prescription drug benefits and the president's initiative to give religious groups a larger role in social services.
The Social Security surplus -- considered sacrosanct only a few days ago -- was already breached to finance a $40 billion recovery and antiterrorism package passed Friday, and lawmakers were expecting billions of dollars more in new expenses for reconstruction and the military.
"We're at war," Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip, said in an interview. "Things change. We were taking that money and paying down the debt with it. Now we're paying down the debt and paying for the war."
Officials said the Justice Department planned to send legislation to Capitol Hill within days that would cover four categories: intelligence gathering, immigration, criminal justice and money laundering.
The department is seeking to broaden its authority under a 1978 law to conduct roving searches of people suspected of terrorism, espionage or sabotage. 
The law, which established a secret federal court to handle wiretap requests under the act, now allows taps to be placed only on specific telephones or computer terminals. Under the proposal outlined by Mr. Ashcroft today, law enforcement agents could ask a secret court to allow them to monitor whatever telephone or computer terminal is used by a suspect.
One senior official said the Justice Department also wanted to make it easier to detain and deport people suspected of involvement in terrorism. In addition, the government may seek to remove any statute of limitations on crimes committed in connection with terrorist acts.
One official also said Mr. Ashcroft would propose that evidence demonstrating the transmission of funds to a designated terrorist organization could be used to prosecute a suspect for money laundering.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft met with legislators yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); TERRORISM (93%); COUNTERTERRORISM (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); WIRETAPPING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (69%); ABORTION (50%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MONEY LAUNDERING; FINES (PENALTIES); WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ESPIONAGE 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%) ;JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%) ASHCROFT, JOHN (ATTY GEN); SHENON, PHILIP; MITCHELL, ALISON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



477 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE OVERVIEW; 
City to Create Commission To Oversee Reconstruction

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
New York City will form a reconstruction commission with extraordinary powers to lead the recovery from the terrorist destruction of the World Trade Center, officials said yesterday, as the city prepared for today's return of business and government to Lower Manhattan.
 Work crews continued to pull tons of mangled metal and crumbled concrete, along with human remains, from the smoking ruins of the trade center. But for the fourth straight day, no victims were found alive. The city's official tally of bodies reached 190, with 4,957 people missing and feared dead. 
 Trading on financial markets is expected to resume today, accompanied by thousands of people returning to Lower Manhattan offices for the first time in six days.
City officials pleaded with people not to drive into Manhattan. Despite the resumption of much of the mass transit service in the financial district, movement will still be hampered by a ban on cars south of Canal Street, and the temporary loss of use of some subway lines, bus routes, PATH trains, bridges and tunnels. The city today will introduce ferry service from Brooklyn to the Battery, a throwback to the commute of the 19th century.
Gov. George E. Pataki said yesterday that he had called a special session of the State Legislature to convene today to consider anti-terrorism measures and enhanced penalties for falsely reporting a bomb. The anti-terrorism package would amend the death penalty statute to include anyone convicted of an act of terrorism that caused a death.
The Long Island Rail Road police yesterday arrested a 40-year-old man, Vincent Maxey, accusing him of making a false bomb threat. Others who were arrested were suspected of stealing supplies donated for rescue workers, trespassing in restricted areas and selling flags under the pretense of raising money for victims' families.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani repeatedly asked people to return, as much as possible, to their routines, calling that the best way to deprive the attackers of victory. "The life of the city goes on," he said.
The mayor said he took inspiration from "Five Days in London," a book about the Battle of Britain. "Civilizations have been attacked, democracies have been attacked and they've had the strength and the will and the courage to deal with it," he said.
While plans for the commission remain loose, city officials clearly intend for it to be a major vehicle for recovering from the losses inflicted on Tuesday, when hijackers plunged fuel-laden jetliners into the trade center's 110-story towers.
Mr. Giuliani will lead the commission at first, but it is unclear if he will continue after leaving office on Dec. 31. Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker and a candidate for mayor, would not rule that out.
The Council will amend the City Charter to give the commission "extraordinary powers to redo and rebuild and to do whatever's necessary," Mr. Vallone said. He said the mayor and the Council would appoint the commission's members.
The commission will probably have the authority to speed demolition and building permits, and possibly to condemn property for redevelopment, city officials said. Officials conceded that state legislation would be required to give the commission any financial muscle -- for instance, the ability to sell bonds or to spend some of the billions of dollars in expected relief money.
At ground zero yesterday, fire officials and engineers expressed concern that the deepest foundations of the trade center may have been badly damaged, particularly retaining walls that hold back the waters of the Hudson River. The walls are leaking, they said, creating the possibility of ground shifts that could undermine buildings and heavy machinery.
Federal officials voiced frustration yesterday as they watched hundreds of workers, amid choking clouds of dust, with filter masks and respirators hanging around their necks, rather than covering their faces. "We're starting to get reports of throat irritation and other problems," said Tina Kreisher, an Environmental Protection Agency spokeswoman.
Consolidated Edison, with 1,900 workers downtown, has laid more than 20 miles of temporary cable and installed emergency generators. But by last night, 7,927 customers were still without power, though some will be able to rely on their own backup generators. Verizon said it could not say how many customers were still without telephone service.
The city is braced for what could be a rocky return to business south of Canal Street and east of Broadway. The area west of Broadway remains closed to all but emergency workers.
Yesterday, police officers searched cars headed into Manhattan through the Lincoln Tunnel, causing an enormous backup. Officials of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey would not say whether that would continue today.
The city is opening a new center today for victims' families on Pier 94, on West 54th Street, to replace the much smaller armory at Lexington Avenue and 26th Street.
Government will return today to City Hall and other municipal offices downtown. Courts will also reopen, but jurors who were not contacted in the last few days and told to appear are asked to stay away.
Mr. Giuliani framed the return as a symbol of the city's resilience under assault. "We're going to go back to City Hall tomorrow and have the regular staff meeting at 8 o'clock in the morning," he said. "I miss those staff meetings."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Maps: "Getting Around Town" Information as of 9 p.m. yesterday Subways and Stations 1/9 No service between Chambers Street and South Ferry indefinitely.2/3 Chambers Street and Park Place will be bypassed.A/C Chambers Street will be bypassed.E The World Trade Center station is closed.N Service replaced by M in Brooklyn and W in Manhattan and Queens.R Service replaced by J in Brooklyn and Q in Queens4/5 Wall Street temporarily bypassed until further notice. Information: MTA (718) 243-7777; www.mta.nyc.ny.us Buses LOCAL BUS SERVICESouth of Canal Street service is limited to the M15 and the M103. EXPRESS BUS SERVICE FROM OUTER BOROUGHSSouth of Canal Street buses will drop off and pick up passengers along Water Street.There will be no X3, X25, X90, X92 buses. Bridges and Tunnels BROOKLYN BRIDGENo cars, open to pedestrian trafficBROOKLYN-BATTERY TUNNEL, HOLLAND TUNNELOnly open to emergency vehicles and busesInformation: www.metrocommute.com Transit officials are urging people not to drive into Lower Manhattan. Commuter Trains LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD, METRO-NORTHRAILROAD, NEW JERSEY TRANSITRegular servicePATH TRAINWill run to 34th Street Map of New York highlighting the subway, bus and path train services that are open, closed, in service and not in service. Ferries STATEN ISLANDRegular service.OTHERPrivate ferries running normally.NY Waterway ferries to downtown have been rerouted to Pier 11. Information:MTA (718) 815-BOAT Map of New York highlighting the path of the new ferry service. Restricted Zones NUMBER OF RESIDENTS IN EACH ZONE Zone 1: 10,700Zone 2: 2,000Zone 3: 47,500 Map of Manhattan highlighting Zone 1 (Secured area No access), Zone 2 (No pedestrian or vehicular access), and Zone 3 (Pedestrians and mass transit only). (Sources: New York City Dept. of Transportation; Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Lot Info 2001, Space Track land-use data ; 2000 Census)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HIJACKING (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MISSING PERSONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICS (70%); ARRESTS (69%); AIRLINES (67%); FERRIES (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (52%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (52%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%) PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



478 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: The Moods of America: Grief, Rage, Resolve; 
New York Stories

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Bush Leads Prayer, Visits Aid Crews; Congress Backs Use of Armed Force" (front page, Sept. 15): 
 America's heartland is an iconic, often mythic place to poets and presidents, and although they seem to locate it vaguely in the western part of the country, it can never have a precise geographic location. 
President Bush was supposed to be touring it while vacationing some weeks past, but I believe that when he came to Lower Manhattan, he at last stood in the true national heartland.
Where now there are broken bodies and twisted wreckage, thousands and thousands of men and women from a variety of backgrounds and beliefs, each with hopes and dreams for the future, had been quietly living out their lives, showing up each day to work, supporting their families, making their own contribution, magnificent or modest, to the economic strength of our nation.
For now, America's heartland is Ground Zero.

EMILY MITCHELL
New York, Sept. 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); HIJACKING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TERRORISM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) MITCHELL, EMILY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



479 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE ECONOMY; 
NATION SHIFTS ITS FOCUS TO WALL STREET AS A MAJOR TEST OF ATTACK'S AFTERMATHS

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON with JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
An informal coalition of government and business implored the leaders of Wall Street today to do what they could as a patriotic duty to keep the stock markets from tumbling when they reopen on Monday morning.
 Returning to the White House from Camp David this afternoon, President Bush said "no question about it, this incident affected our economy." But he also expressed "great faith" in the nation's economic and financial resiliency. 
 "The markets open tomorrow, people go back to work, and we'll show the world," Mr. Bush said. 
The Federal Reserve and its counterparts in Europe and Japan chose not to take any action in advance of Wall Street's attempt to return to normal after the devastation of Tuesday. Japanese stocks fell sharply in trading on Monday. Page C6. 
But with much riding on the stock market's opening, both psychologically and financially, officials from the administration, the Fed and the Securities and Exchange Commission mounted a campaign to bolster investor and consumer confidence and win cooperation from top executives of the nation's major banking and investment companies.
They made clear that the government expected the industry to put the need for a smooth opening in the stock market ahead of short-term trading strategies or other business decisions that might drive down share prices down.
William J. McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said he had spoken in the last few days to financial executives, including William B. Harrison Jr., president of J. P. Morgan Chase; Philip J. Purcell, chairman of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter; John J. Mack, chief executive of Credit Suisse First Boston; and David H. Komansky, chairman of Merrill Lynch. 
Mr. McDonough said in an interview today that his message to the banking and investment industries was that "the whole financial sector realize that tomorrow is a challenge and that it is important that we do well tomorrow."
He told them, he said, that "they should be taking care of all the needs of their customers and counterparties and should be making wise credit decisions."
At the same time, everyone from Vice President Dick Cheney to commentators and ministers in the pulpit sought to turn helping the market restart into something of a patriotic crusade, and maybe even good business.
Warren E. Buffett, one of the nation's best-known investors; Robert E. Rubin, a former Treasury secretary; and John F. Welch Jr. the recently retired chairman of General Electric, all went on the CBS News program "60 Minutes" tonight to instill confidence.
Mr. Buffett said he "won't be selling anything" when the market opens, and that if prices fell enough, "there's some things I might buy."
The Fed declined to comment on the schedule of its chairman, Alan Greenspan. But underscoring the focus that policy makers have put on having the stock market operating again as a step toward re-establishing economic normalcy, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill left Washington today after a National Security Council meeting and traveled to New York, where he planned to be on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange when it reopens at 9:30 Monday morning.
The economy in the United States appeared to be on the brink of recession even before the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Many economists said the blow to consumer and investor confidence and the slowdown in economic activity caused by the disruptions to air travel and ordinary commerce were likely to push it over the edge.
With the global economy also decelerating, economists have been particularly concerned that a sharp and sustained fall in stocks in the United States and abroad could set off a crisis that would make the overall outlook even dimmer.
There were rumors throughout the day -- driven as much by hope among investors as by concrete evidence -- that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates the next few days, perhaps in conjunction with the central banks in Japan and Europe. Rate cuts tend to provide the markets with a psychological lift and to encourage investors to move money from bonds into stocks.
Mr. Cheney said the nation "quite possibly" faces war and recession simultaneously. But he said the economy should rebound quickly, and he suggested that individuals could help by continuing to work, spend and invest as normally as possible.
Speaking on "Meet the Press" on NBC News, Mr. Cheney said he hoped that "the American people would, in effect, stick their thumb in the eye of the terrorists and say that they've got great confidence in the country, great confidence in our economy and not let what's happened here in any way throw off their normal level of economic activity."
The S.E.C. said last week that it would waive certain regulations to allow companies and executives to help prop up the prices of their shares. Other government officials said they had sent word to investment firms that they would frown on practices that might contribute to volatility in the markets, including short-selling, or betting that a stock will lose value. 
A senior financial regulator said over the weekend that the S.E.C. had concluded that it would be inappropriate for the commission to tell the investment firms it regulates what to do when the market reopens. But the official said the commission was heartened by the spread of calls for people to buy stock on Monday, or at least to avoid selling.
Ignited by newspaper columns and Web sites, there has been widespread talk of fighting back by putting or keeping money in the stock market come Monday.
Bruce Bartlett, a conservative economist and commentator, wrote in The New York Post on Saturday that individuals should "vote for America by putting your money into its financial and industrial core." At All Souls Unitarian Church on the Upper East Side of Manhattan today, the minister, Galen Guengerich, told the congregation: "Buy a new book. Buy some stocks."
After a long pause he added, "Tomorrow morning," eliciting a wave of applause and laughter.
As it confronts the likelihood of a costly war against terrorism and a period of economic peril, the United States can draw on its bequest from the prosperity of recent years, including a substantial federal budget surplus and the ability to slash interest rates.
Economists said that after more than 10 years of uninterrupted economic growth -- the longest expansion on record -- the nation had the resources to pay for military action, reconstruction and a dose of stimulus to the economy without taking on levels of debt that would be troublesome in the short run.
With inflation low, the Fed has the flexibility to give the economy and the markets an immediate boost by reducing interest rates further, even after seven rate cuts this year. 
Having been squeezed for two decades by intense global competition, American industry is generally lean and nimble, and the banking system is healthy.
"We have a surplus in our budget and room to do near-term stimulus," said Alice M. Rivlin, a former vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve who also directed the Congressional Budget Office.
"We have a strong banking system that's coming off a long period of doing very well," she said. "And we have monetary policy that's been aggressive but still has a lot of maneuvering room. We have a very resilient economy."
Given all the uncertainties about military action and critical economic factors like oil prices, the outlook at this point is foggy. But economists said they expected at least a quarter or two in which the economy would be weaker than it looked as if it would be before Tuesday.
"Coming as this shock does, amid an economy that was already in demonstrable retreat, the result will surely be to accelerate the pace of economic decline," said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, an investment firm.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nasdaq MarketSite announces today's reopening. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); TERRORISM (69%); AIRLINES (60%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) ;FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); JACK WELCH (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%); JOHN J MACK (50%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



480 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: NATIONAL AIRPORT; 
Airport to Stay Shut for Now; Some Urge Permanent Move

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said today that Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport would have to be closed indefinitely because of its proximity to the seats of government, and some lawmakers and aviation authorities said it should be shut down permanently.
 "Given the risks that exist, and the flight paths' being right near the Pentagon, the White House, the Capitol building, it seems to me a necessity to close National Airport for a period," Mr. Rumsfeld said at a news conference. 
 The Federal Aviation Administration has said the airport will remain closed for the time being; airlines were being allowed to fly the empty jets out during limited hours today, with minimal crews, under tight security. That operation was expected to continue on Monday.
Many members of Congress are used to driving just 15 minutes to the airport, where they have a reserved parking lot, and there is likely to be some pressure to reopen it. "I don't think that anything that happened the other day changes the long-term viability of that airport," Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader, said in an interview.
But Representative Porter J. Goss of Florida, a Republican who is chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and Representative John Cooksey, a Louisiana Republican who is a pilot, told reporters that the airport might have to be shut down permanently because of the security risk.
David S. Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association, which represents frequent travelers, has long called for the airport to be closed. "You envision some airplane coming in and out of National Airport just veering off at some point and crashing into the White House or the Capitol," Mr. Stempler said in an interview.
Permanently closing the airport would be a blow to the city's economy. Some airline executives fear that US Airways, which is by far the largest carrier at the airport, would be forced out of business.
Rakesh Gangwal, the chief executive of US Airways, told the airline's major unions this morning that he expected National Airport to be closed for 15 days. He said the airline planned to cut 20 to 25 percent of its schedule, assuming that the airport reopened.
Since the attacks, new security measures have been imposed in an effort to help protect the airport. One is putting armed, undercover marshals on flights, a step that is already being implemented selectively around the country, the aviation agency said. The agency said it was asking the Defense Department if other "highly trained agents" might be put on flights.
Meanwhile, fighter planes continue to patrol the airspace around Washington and are on 15-minute alert elsewhere around the country, ready to intercept planes that deviate from their flight plans.
Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta said today that if National Airport opened soon, planes might be allowed only to arrive from the south and depart toward the south, a proposal that would cut capacity and present other problems. Usually, planes arrive from the south and depart to the north, or vice versa, depending partly on wind direction.
The rest of the country's commercial airports had been reopened by today, and at midday about 4,800 planes were aloft, two-thirds of normal Sunday traffic. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (97%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLITICS (66%); TERRORISM (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REAGAN, RONALD, WASHINGTON NATIONAL AIRPORT; AIRPORTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (58%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; SHENON, PHILIP; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



481 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE STRATEGY; 
A New War And Its Scale

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
When President Bush and his top aides talk about military action to end Afghanistan's support for terrorism, they are focusing on attacks to punish the Taliban and undermine their control over the country, not a full-scale American occupation.
 No war plan appears to have been agreed on, and officially the Bush administration insists that no options have been excluded. 
 The administration, however, is preparing a powerful military strike if the Taliban, as expected, refuse to hand over the terrorist Osama bin Laden and shut down his terrorist network.
The blow would be intended not only to destroy terrorist bases in Afghanistan but also to demonstrate to other nations that there is a heavy cost to be paid for those who shelter enemies of the United States. 
A principal option is to intervene militarily in Afghanistan's civil war on the side of the Taliban's foes: the beleaguered rebel alliance that claims just a sliver of Afghanistan's territory. It was just weakened further with the assassination of its leader, Ahmed Shah Massoud, who died Saturday, after a bomb attack committed just two days before the raids in New York and Washington.
At the same time, the United States would apply additional pressure, for example, by persuading Pakistan to close off financial channels to the bin Laden organization and the flow of fuel to Afghanistan.
Such steps might fall short of a knockout blow to the Taliban. Complicating the administration's planning, the element of surprise has been lost. The Taliban and Mr. bin Laden's men are expecting a bombing attack and have been evacuating their camps and bases, according to American intelligence.
But there is a recognition that to go further by carrying out a Soviet-style occupation with thousands of troops would place the United States at odds with much of the Islamic world and is fraught with danger.
The administration seems to be grappling for a plan involving air power, and potentially ground troops, that is more forceful than the cruise missile strike that the Clinton administration launched in 1998 against Mr. bin Laden in Afghanistan -- with little effect -- but that is less than the huge air and ground offensive that the United States launched in the Persian Gulf war. 
Administration officials indicated that military action against Afghanistan need not be an urgent matter without the element of surprise. Indeed, the Pentagon will need time to position its forces if it decides to carry out a major attack in a distant region like Afghanistan, far from American bases.
But administration officials also know that politically it will be easier to take action while world outrage over the terrorist attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon is still fresh.
The military action being planned for Afghanistan is part of a broader diplomatic as well as military policy of holding nations accountable that provide aid and comfort to terrorists.
The administration's goal is clear: it wants to rip apart the terrorists' networks. But since the terrorists are hard to find, Washington is focusing not just on them but on the governments that back them. Certainly capturing a terrorist or enemy leader is one of the most difficult of military tasks.
The American military tried in vain to capture the Somali warlord Muhammad Farah Aidid. And it failed to break Saddam Hussein's hold on power despite numerous raids including some devised to kill the Iraqi leader.
The first Bush administration was successful in apprehending Manuel Noriega, the Panama strongman. But Washington had many advantages, including American military bases and airfields in Panama.
But Mr. bin Laden has been elusive and has based himself in a rugged region, remote from American bases and forces. Vice President Dick Cheney said today that the United States was not even sure that Mr. bin Laden is still in Afghanistan. Faced with a difficult task of tracking him down, the Bush administration has responded by enlarging the problem. The theory is that while the terrorist may be hard to find, a government that shelters him is not.
"The terrorist organizations themselves and the terrorists don't have targets of high value," Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said today on the Fox News Channel. "They don't have armies and navies and air forces that one can go battle against. They don't have capital cities with high-value assets that they're reluctant to lose."
He added: "Some of the countries that are harboring terrorist networks do, in fact, have high-value targets. They do have capitals. They do have armies." Deputy Secretary of State Paul D. Wolfowitz spoke last week of "ending states who sponsor terrorism." Officials say now that he misspoke, that he meant to say that the goal is ending state support.
In some cases, like Afghanistan, that may be a semantic issue since the goal would be to dislodge the Taliban rulers if they refused to cooperate with Washington's counterterrorism campaign. 
In other cases, political, economic and limited military pressure may be applied. The Bush administration has certainly not committed itself to invading all the nations on the State Department's list of those found to help terrorists -- Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Cuba and North Korea.
And it may be prepared to show some tactical flexibility. Some officials say that they do not exclude cooperating with Iran, a supporter of the anti-Taliban insurgents, in their quest to take the fight to the Taliban. That would be an application of the old dictum "The enemy of my enemy is my friend."
In a country as poor as Afghanistan, there may be precious few of the high-value targets that Mr. Rumsfeld referred to. But there are still bases, police posts and forces that the United States could strike. Certainly the main focus is on targets in Afghanistan.
Mr. Cheney said there was no indication that Iraq was linked to last week's terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. "Saddam Hussein's bottled up at this point," he said.
Recognizing the difficulty of its military task, the Bush administration has also been avoiding expectations that one or two raids will put an end to the worldwide terrorist threat. It is talking about a military campaign that would last years, not months.
"What we have to do is take down those networks of terrorist organizations," Mr. Cheney said today. "I think this is going to be a struggle that the United States is going to be involved in for the foreseeable future." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TALIBAN (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (84%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



482 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE NEIGHBOR; 
Pakistani Team Giving Afghans An Ultimatum

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Monday, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Pakistan sent a group of high-ranking military officers to Afghanistan today to demand that the Taliban government hand over the accused terrorist Osama bin Laden and his top associates to the United States or face almost certain American military action, senior Pakistani officials said.
 The group is led by Maj. Gen. Faiz Gilani, one of the top officers in Pakistan's military intelligence wing, the Inter-Services Intelligence directorate, or ISI, which is thought to have unique intelligence on Mr. bin Laden's operations in Afghanistan and his whereabouts. 
 Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, had agreed to relay the ultimatum after days of intensive discussions between American and Pakistani officials, in Washington and Islamabad, the Pakistani officials said. But the officials also cautioned that the chances of the Taliban bowing to the American demand were slim. 
In the first test of its pledge to make nations choose sides in a war against terrorism, the Bush administration has placed relentless pressure on Pakistan to cooperate in capturing or eliminating Mr. bin Laden, who is suspected of masterminding Tuesday's catastrophic attacks on New York and Washington.
In effect, the Pakistani officials said, American officials had told General Musharraf's government that Washington would use every lever "short of war" to punish Pakistan unless it cooperated. 
The officials said that at the meeting in Kandahar, where the delegation arrived this morning, the Taliban leaders would be told that they had "only a few days" to hand over Mr. bin Laden or face an eventual American military attack that would almost certainly target the Taliban as well as Mr. bin Laden, and possibly lead to American troops entering Afghanistan. 
Alternatively, the Taliban would be told, according to those officials, that if they agreed to hand over Mr. bin Laden and his associates and close down all his training camps, the Taliban would be left to continue in power.
The choice between confronting the Taliban or cooperating with the United States is a wrenching one for General Musharraf, who leads a chronically unstable and nuclear armed nation of 140 million people, dependent on ties to the West but increasingly lured by radical Islam. 
In a sign of just how treacherous he judges the situation to be, General Musharraf spent Sunday in a highly unusual series of meetings with influential Pakistanis, including politicians, newspaper editors, Muslim clerics and dozens of people with links to conservative Islamic groups.
Success in Kandahar would head off an American military operation that would almost certainly involve the use of Pakistan's airfields and airspace. Such an event could set off bitter protests by supporters of Mr. bin Laden and the Taliban in Pakistan, who took to the streets on Sunday in modestly sized rallies across the country. It could even shake or wrench loose General Musharraf's hold on power. 
But officials said they rated the chances of the Taliban bowing to the ultimatum as "very poor." The Taliban leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, has already said in a defiant, warlike radio speech on Friday that he believed that handing over Mr. bin Laden would not spare Afghanistan from an American attack. 
If the delegation's mission does fail, Pakistan will almost certainly have to prepare for a central role in what President Bush has repeatedly described as war. In Washington, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said Sunday that an "an interagency" team of top officials would fly to Islamabad this week to work out the details of that support. 
Pakistani officials, however, continued to avoid specifying what Pakistan's role would be, apparently to give General Musharraf time to prepare crucial centers of opinion for steps certain to provoke bitter opposition. "This is not a man who is used to having to sell anything, least of all to politicians, editors and mullahs," said one of those who was at the Sunday meetings. "He's a general, used to telling people what to do, not asking them to support him."
An influential Pakistani who attended some of the Sunday briefings said General Musharraf had already assured President Bush in a telephone call on Saturday that Pakistan would allow the use of its airspace and airfields, if needed, as well as full access to Pakistani intelligence on Mr. bin Laden.
Crucially, too, this participant said, Pakistan has agreed to provide "logistical support" to an American military campaign, apparently including the provision of crucial supplies like fuel.
The only hard-and-fast limits that Pakistan had set, the participant in the briefings said, were that it would not allow its own troops to be deployed alongside an American force in Afghanistan, and that any American military presence on the ground in Pakistan would have to be kept "well out of sight," at remote military bases and airfields.
"Other than that," the participant said, "I got the impression that we will not be pussyfooting about this, that we will give the Americans just about everything they want."
But those who took part in the meetings said General Musharraf had given the impression that he had driven a hard bargain. Among other things, the general was said to havedemanded an end to economic sanctions imposed by Washington after Pakistan tested nuclear weapons in 1998, and the lifting of an American ban on weapons sales.
Also on the list, participants said, was a pledge that Washington would assist Pakistan's battered economy by encouraging generous treatment by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and a shift in Pakistan's favor in its dispute with India over the Kashmir region. 
If it comes to war, General Musharraf will be committing Pakistan to a war against a neighboring Muslim state, something bound to shock parts of this overwhelmingly Muslim nation whose unquenchable poverty has made it a breeding pool for radical Islamists, including those in the senior echelons of the army. 
Although Pakistan's army and police are almost certainly powerful enough to suppress street protests, influential Pakistanis say, General Musharraf, who took power in a coup nearly two years ago, cannot be sure that some of his fellow army commanders might not topple him if he fails to carry them with him. 
"If he lets the Americans use Pakistan as a launching pad for operations in Afghanistan, Musharraf will face problems, no doubt about it," a veteran politician said. "But his difficulties will be proportional to the benefits he can bring to Pakistan, and to the length of time it takes for the Americans to achieve their objectives in Afghanistan.
"If the operation is swift and short, Musharraf will be okay, but if it is protracted he'll run into all sorts of political problems."
Regardless of the outcome of today's mission, even locating Mr. bin Laden is less than a certainty. A Pakistani journalist, Jamal Ismail, who represents Abu Dhabi Television in Afghanistan, said on Sunday that he had received a clandestine message from the Taliban saying that Mr. bin Laden had gone. "Our guest has left," Mr. Ismail quoted the message as saying, "and we are not aware of his whereabouts." 
Officials in Pakistan, however, noted that the Taliban had made such claims before, only to have the Saudi-born militant reappear in the company of Taliban leaders. 
In any case, it was not clear where Mr. bin Laden could go, except into some new hideout in the semi-deserts and mountains that make up much of Afghanistan, which in themselves may provide safe haven enough. As Soviet troops discovered during their disastrous decade occupying Afghanistan in the 1980's, the terrain is among the most rugged and inhospitable on earth.
A Russian official told CNN in Moscow on Sunday that Russia's intelligence service knew where Mr. bin Laden was just before last Tuesday's attacks, but not any more. Pakistan's own intelligence service has said that it, too, does not know Mr. bin Laden's current hideout. 
As for Mr. bin Laden himself, the Qatar-based satellite television station Al Jazeera broadcast a statement on Sunday that it attributed to the world's most wanted fugitive. "I would like to assure the world that I did not plan the recent attacks, which seem to have been planned by people for personal reasons," read the message, whose authenticity was impossible to verify. "I have been living in the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan and following its leaders' rules. The current leader does not allow me to exercise such operations."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pakistani demonstrators gathered in Rawalpindi yesterday to denounce their government's cooperation with American anti-terrorism efforts. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. A3) Map of Pakistan highlighting Islamabad: An American delegation is to fly to Islamabad for further talks. (pg. A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); TERRORISM (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (83%); WAR ON TERROR (79%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN; ISLAM; ATOMIC WEAPONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BURNS, JOHN F; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; AFGHANISTAN; PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001 



483 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Citing Safety and Taste, Groups Cancel Shows and Exhibitions 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
Faced with anxiety in the audience and myriad logistical hurdles, cultural institutions around the city have been forced to cancel and postpone dozens of performances and exhibits because of concerns over safety or subject matter after last week's terrorist attacks.
 Perhaps hardest hit has been Quebec New York 2001, the elaborate monthlong festival of Quebecois culture which was to have kicked off with a wide range of exhibits and theater productions last weekend. Since last Tuesday's attack, the festival, which was to have been largely based in the heavily damaged World Financial Center, has had to cancel about 75 percent of its planned events, including "Zulu Time," the highly anticipated collaboration between the Canadian director Robert LePage and Peter Gabriel, the rock musician. 
 Remy Charest, the festival's public relations director, said the decision to cancel "Zulu Time," which was to have begun performances at the Roseland Ballroom beginning on Friday, was related to the subject matter. The piece, which takes its title from the military designation for Greenwich Mean Time, is set in an airport, and features a terrorist character and two scenes involving a plane crash. 
"As far as the subject matter was concerned, we thought that it was sensitive and not very appropriate to do it at this time," Mr. Charest said yesterday from Montreal. "Safety of our performers was critical, too, but the subject matter was the clincher."
Also facing mass cancellations is Lincoln Center's Rachmaninoff Revisited festival, which lost five major events over the weekend, including performances by London's Philharmonia Orchestra and the St. Petersburg Chamber Choir. Yesterday Lincoln Center said additional performances by Mikhail Pletnev, a pianist, would be canceled because Mr. Pletnev was stranded in Europe.
Indeed, while many cancellations were made out of respect for victims and the rescue effort, more mundane concerns were also snagging plans, including the difficulty some performers faced obtaining visas because of closed consulates in foreign countries.
Discussions of safety and sensitivity to depictions of violence have been going on in administrative offices of arts groups all over the city. Last week, in fact, the Roundabout Theater Company canceled a planned Broadway production of the Stephen Sondheim musical "Assassins," which includes references to an aerial attack on the White House. 
Another major cancellation was announced yesterday when word came that a planned tribute to John Lennon on Thursday at Radio City Music Hall, featuring performances by Beck, Alanis Morissette and Lou Reed, would be postponed.
Still other groups were making the decision to press ahead. At the Kitchen on West 19th Street yesterday, plans were to proceed with a production of "Logic of the Birds," conceived by Shirin Neshat and Sussan Deyhim, two Iranian artists living in the United States, despite "serious concerns" from company members that the piece might be a target for backlash because of the current media focus on Middle Eastern terrorist activities.
"The artists of the Kitchen strongly believe that performing their deeply humanistic work is a very important part of the healing process," the company said in a statement. "In this time of mounting ignorance and prejudice, it is particularly important to support these artists whose work represents their own culture."
At the Drama Dept. in Greenwich Village, meanwhile, discussion yesterday focused on whether to change a scene at the end of "Rude Entertainment," three short plays by Paul Rudnick, in which characters point handguns at the audience.
In the end, Mr. Rudnick said he had opted not to second-guess the audience's reaction, though a slide projection of the Trade Center used for a transition will be eliminated. 
"The plays are all about how people deal with tragedy," Mr. Rudnick said. "We're going to see how it plays."
Uncertainty also surrounded the attacks' economic impact. Many downtown venues, like the Knitting Factory, remain closed. 
Mr. Charest, of the Quebec festival, said he was uncertain what the total loss for the $9 million festival would be. The list of canceled performances included Par B.L. Eux Company, a leading avant-garde troupe; a dance performance by the Compagnie Marie Chouinard at the Joyce Theater; and several visual art installations planned for the Kitchen. Several large-scale installations showing off Quebec's tourism and technology are also believed to have been destroyed at the financial center.
All of which, Mr. Charest said, was secondary to the safety of the festival's participants; as many as 140 of the festival's staff and artists were staying in hotels and apartments in the financial district, but all are accounted for. "It's a huge disappointment," he said. "But in the end, it's all just a footnote to what happened." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); THEATER (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); MUSICAL THEATER (76%); POP & ROCK (74%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%) TERRORISM; CULTURE; MUSIC; THEATER 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



484 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: China Moves Closer to Entering Trade Group 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
China moved a step closer today to entering the World Trade Organization, formally concluding 15 years of talks.
 A deal to rescue the talks, which had foundered over an insurance ownership dispute, was cobbled together last week, and informally approved early Saturday. 
 The lead Chinese negotiator, Long Yongtu, pledged today that "China will strictly abide by W.T.O. rules and conscientiously implement its commitments." 
But he and others declined to comment on how they resolved the prickly final hurdle of insurance ownership. 
Under the agreement with China, European and American insurers will have access to China's domestic insurance market based on the separate terms Europe and the United States reached with China last year. The deal with the United States, Europeans say, favors the American International Group, whose operations in China are wholly owned by the company. European negotiators reached a deal with China last year that allows for 50-50 joint ventures in insurance.
In a statement, the United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, said that China's earlier commitments established its "obligation to permit insurance companies to set up new branches with the same ownership basis as before its W.T.O. accession."
The European Union's negotiator, Karl Falkenburg, was equally optimistic, saying "there will be opportunities for all operators. 
"What we don't want is privileges," he said.
Negotiators declined to say whether A.I.G.'s 100 percent ownership of its life insurance business would be grandfathered. The question may wind up as one of China's first cases at the W.T.O. dispute settlement body.
For months, China's accession had been expected to be adopted by top trade ministers at their meeting scheduled for Doha, Qatar, in November. The director general of the W.T.O., Mike Moore, said the organization was "doing our duty to prepare ourselves for Doha."
One European official, however, said that some delegates had raised concerns about the Middle East location, but were waiting to see how events unfold in coming weeks. "This won't be decided by capitals," he said. "It will be decided by security people."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); JOINT VENTURES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%) INSURANCE; INSURANCE; INSURANCE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION; AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP 

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) OLSON, ELIZABETH; LONG YONGTU 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); QATAR (79%) CHINA; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



485 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Fashion Wonders What It Will Look Like Now 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

 BODY:
On Thursday morning Alexandra Hamilton, a fashion industry publicist, ascended a set of subway stairs at Times Square to return, begrudgingly, to her job on Seventh Avenue. Like so many New Yorkers whose work could provide no immediate contribution to the relief effort, the questions on her mind were existential: How can I do what I do? What does it matter? How, she wondered, would anyone be able to sit blithely at a fashion show ever again? 
 Beyond combating feelings of irrelevance, those employed in fashion are coming to terms with the fact that business, in many ways, cannot continue as usual. If mounting $300,000 runway shows and staging even costlier parties with the arrival of every new perfume seemed perverse before, they seem sacrilegious to many now, when thousands are missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center disaster. 
 "The musical chairs in the front row, the sunglasses, the jaded expressions, it was already seeming so outdated," said the designer John Bartlett. "Now it seems to belong completely to some other time."
Of immediate concern to editors and buyers is the matter of the European shows, which began on Sunday in London, albeit with the cancellations of major shows by Burberry, Nicole Farhi and Clements Ribeiro. Many in the American press and retail worlds are skipping the London shows and remain wary about attending shows in Milan, which are scheduled to begin Sept. 22, and in Paris, which are to start Oct. 5.
"Watching fashion shows and sitting in the audience seems not the thing to do," said Julie Gilhart, the fashion director of Barneys New York, who is wavering over whether to attend the European collections. "We need to be reflective of the new collective mood. I don't want to be in Europe; I want to be here for friends and for any opportunity I have to help. We need to challenge designers to creatively address how they can show us clothes in different ways."
But even if designers do manage to show more economically and inventively during the remainder of the spring 2002 collections, a larger issue is at hand: will men and women want to shop in the crucial months ahead for the retail industry? An economy that was already sluggish and consumer confidence that was already depleted had retailers in a bind before the events of last week.
"This is going to be a climate of 'shop for what you have to have,' " said Arnold Aronson, the managing director for retail strategies at Kurt Salmon Associates and a former chief executive of Saks Fifth Avenue. " 'Want' is less clear under these circumstances."
Mr. Aronson spent the past few days walking through stores and discovered that many people did not heed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's plea to New Yorkers to help revitalize the local economy by shopping. "I've been through stores and they're empty," he said. "I don't think you could find people stealing at this point. I think there is guilt associated with personal conspicuous consumption."
Kal Ruttenstein, the fashion director at Bloomingdale's, echoed many other merchants when he said it was still too soon to tell how severely retailers might be affected over the next few months.
"Some days weren't as bad as you'd think, and some days were terrible," Mr. Ruttenstein said of the shopping activity last week in Bloomingdale's. The pervasive sense of fear and anxiety that people must now live with will keep many of them from wanting to enter big crowded stores, Mr. Ruttenstein added.
Many store executives also feel that the way they communicate with consumers might undergo certain shifts. "What is the appropriate way to conduct business?" Ronald L. Frasch, the president of Bergdorf Goodman, said. "How do you balance the social obligations you have as a store executive with the commercial obligations? Do we call up our customers about in-store events?" 
Simon Doonan, the creative director of Barneys New York, emphasized, along with others, that service will take on unprecedented importance in the new climate. "Everything about coming into a store is going to have to be uplifting -- the way people are greeted when they come in," Mr. Doonan said. "We can't have sales people in urban flight mode."
Mr. Aronson said stores will have to work hard to retain the customers they have attracted. "Making low price the compelling selling proposition isn't necessarily going to work," he said. "I think there will have to be a greater effort on the part of stores toward more human outreach."
Part of that would ostensibly come from advertising campaigns and promotions that might speak more feelingly to the public than they have in the past.
"There's definitely going to be a more questioning aesthetic," said Mr. Doonan, who is currently working on the store's Christmas windows. "Everything has to frame the world in a positive way. Irony has to be handled with kid gloves.I think you see immediately now if something is inappropriate or not -- it screams off the page." 
Mr. Doonan said the the "Ab-Fab" aspect of fashion, its campy irreverence, is "totally inappropriate now."
Ed Burstell, the vice president and general manager of Bendel's, said he planned to walk through his store yesterday afternoon and remove any clothes that seemed inappropriate -- distressed fabrics, for example, that might suggest the ash-covered refugees fleeing uptown after last Tuesday's attacks.
Of great interest to all who follow fashion is how an altered world will affect the way designers think about clothes. Will the references to late-20th-century culture, so often arbitrary, continue unabated? "The business of fashion obviously will go on," said Josh Patner, a partner in the Tuleh design team. "People can't ignore the economic weight of it. But it's a bigger challenge for fashion." 
"Fashion has gotten so far away from itself," he continued. "It's all rehash and showmanship. Fashion has not necessarily benefited from its overexposure in the popular culture. In 25 or 50 years, will people look at this as an era of spectacular clothing? No. They'll think of it as an era of spectacle."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On some days since the terrorist attacks, shoppers have been staying away from retail stores. Above, H&M on Fifth Avenue. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); In the window at Saks Fifth Avenue, there are no mannequins wearing dresses or shoes. Only this sight. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); RETAILERS (87%); EXECUTIVES (86%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); TERRORISM (59%) APPAREL; TERRORISM; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES INC (51%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) BELLAFANTE, GINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



486 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Feeling the American Aftershock 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
After months of economic crisis had given way to a few weeks of relative calm, last Tuesday's terrorist attacks on the United States threaten to send South America's two largest economies, Argentina and Brazil, into a steep downward spiral. 
 The two are in difficult straits for very different reasons -- a long slump and thorny debt and fiscal problems in Argentina, an energy crisis and eroding confidence in Brazil -- but their fates are inevitably intertwined. And analysts said one thing they have in common -- heavy reliance on foreign cash -- makes them especially vulnerable to the economic aftershocks of the attacks. 
 "The situation just became much more complicated," said Jose de Faria, chief economist at Deutsche Bank in Sao Paulo. "With the flow of foreign investment bound to be significantly weakened, the major concern right now will be how to fund the current account deficits." 
Foreign investors have become very skittish. When Telefonica Moviles of Spain said it would abandon its $875 million plan to buy out other investors in Celular CRT Participacoes, a mobile phone company in Southern Brazil, because of "the exceptional events of recent days," CRT's stock plummeted more than 60 percent on the news. 
Remarkably, after being beaten down hard last week while United States markets were closed, both the Argentine and Brazilian markets rebounded today while Wall Street was sinking fast. In Sao Paulo, the benchmark Bovespa index, which fell 18.1 percent last week, gained 5.1 percent today, though it was still off nearly a third for the year -- and about half in dollar terms. In Buenos Aires, the Merval index managed a 1.5 percent gain today after falling 4.1 percent last week; it, too, was off about a third for the year, both in local currency and in dollars. 
Analysts said one reason the indexes did not fall further in today's downdraft from Wall Street was that months of economic crisis already dried up most of the liquidity in the markets, especially in Argentina. Few people want to buy or sell.
After three years of recession, Argentina came near to defaulting on $130 billion in debt this year. An $8 billion credit line from the International Monetary Fund and the Argentine government's "zero deficit" pledge to live within its means had calmed investors and bank customers in recent weeks. 
In a sign that confidence was returning, the rate of withdrawals from banks stabilized in the first weeks of September, after Argentines pulled out 11.6 percent of their deposits in August in fear of a devaluation of the peso. Economists say withdrawals may now pick up again. 
"The critical issue will be how the reactions of investors will reverberate, in the sense of confidence within Argentina itself," said David Roberts, senior international economist at Banc of America Securities. 
With a debt plan in place that puts off most of its debt payments until 2003, the greatest challenge for Argentina will be to stick to fiscal discipline and avoid deficit spending at a time when exports and the economy at large are likely to contract rather than grow. The government is debating a politically volatile proposal for $6.4 billion in spending cuts in the 2002 budget.
Brazil's economy is still growing, though much more slowly now than earlier in the year. Forecasts of robust 4.5 percent growth in 2001 have been halved, as investors recoil from the threat of an Argentine default and the severe electricity shortage and power rationing in Brazil.
Brazil needs $25 billion to $30 billion in new foreign investment each year to offset a chronic current-account deficit; concerns that investment will fall far short this year have driven Brazil's currency, the real, down more than 25 percent since January, fueling inflation. 
After warning that Brazil would not escape the global economic fallout from last Tuesday's attacks, the president, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, told the nation, "Whatever needs to be done to maintain the rhythm of our normal activities, with economic growth, we will do it."
But to keep inflation from growing out of hand, the country will probably have to aggravate its own recession, by cutting spending sharply and tightening monetary policy when most countries are loosening.
The Brazilian government had hoped to offset a drop in foreign investment by increasing exports, a plan that Mr. Cardoso recently introduced under the proclamation "export or die." 
But even with the real devalued steeply, experts are skeptical that the country will find any traction for stepping up exports when the world economy is slowing down and growing more uncertain.
"Exporters, particularly those that are branches of multinational companies, have to know that exports from Brazil are going to be competitive over a long period of time," said Gilberto Dupas of the University of Sao Paulo.
The United States is the largest importer of 7 of Brazil's top 12 export products, accounting for $50 million to $60 million of trade a day. But in many of those categories, including shoes, cellphones and auto parts, demand from America is expected to drop almost immediately. 
Brazil's largest single exporter, Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica, known as Embraer, may be one of the hardest hit, because severely cash-squeezed airlines are expected to start canceling orders for its passenger jets. Some analysts said Embraer's order book may shrink a third, to 150 planes from 220, aggravating Brazil's trade deficit of nearly $1 billion.
Experts see some hope that global commodity prices may rise in the event of a protracted American military response to the terrorist attacks, though that effect would take a while to kick in. And they said that in Brazil at least, the falling currency and slowing economic growth might hold down imports and help limit the damage to the trade deficit.
While the scope of the eventual American response to the terrorist attacks cannot yet be known, experts say one thing is clear: the difficulties of emerging markets like Argentina and Brazil, however acute, have now slipped a long way down the global priorities list.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prices rebounded in trading yesterday on the Sao Paulo exchange after a significant drop last week. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); CURRENCIES (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DEVALUATION (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (77%); BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (73%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); CELULAR CRT PARTICIPACOES SA (55%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: DAVID A ROBERTS (53%) ;RICH, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (97%); ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (70%) ARGENTINA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



487 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Fell in July; Sales Gained 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Inventories of unsold goods at United States companies fell in July for a sixth consecutive month and sales increased before last week's terrorist attacks, which slowed business, the government reported today.
 Stockpiles decreased 0.4 percent after falling a revised 0.6 percent in June, the Commerce Department said. Inventories have been decreasing since February, the longest string of declines since February-August 1991, when the economy was emerging from a recession. Sales rose 0.4 percent in July after falling 1.5 percent the previous month. 
 Businesses may have to redouble efforts to trim inventories if sales slow in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center and damaged the Pentagon. Before that, companies like General Motors, Handspring and Dress Barn were already reducing stockpiles in response to slower sales earlier this year. 
"We will probably see a retrenchment by the consumer and that will probably reopen the inventory problem yet again," said Geoffrey Somes, an economist at Fleet Bank Boston. 
The inventory-to-sales ratio, which measures the time goods sit at businesses, fell to 1.42 months in July compared with 1.43 months in June. 
Analysts had expected a 0.4 percent decline in business inventories in July after a previously reported decrease of 0.4 percent in June. 
Retail inventories, reported for the first time today, rose 0.1 percent in July after falling 0.3 percent in June, reflecting a rise at automobile dealers. Retailers' sales rose 0.2 percent in July after falling 0.1 percent. 
At auto dealers, inventories increased 1 percent in July after falling 0.1 percent in June. Still, sales were up 0.6 percent. 
Stockpiles at manufacturers, which account for about 40 percent of the report, fell 0.6 percent in July after falling 1 percent the month before. Sales rose 0.5 percent after falling 2.9 percent in June.
Wholesale inventories, which make up about one-fourth of the business inventories report, dropped 0.7 percent in July after declining 0.4 percent in June. Sales rose 0.6 percent after falling 1.1 percent in June. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Inventory-Sales Ratio"Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. Graph shows figures from February 2000-July 2001. Business Inventories and SalesBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Inventories:July: $1,182.90June: $1,187.72 Sales:July: 831.93June: 828.41 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (93%); SALES FIGURES (92%); TERRORISM (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (79%); RETAILERS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (74%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



488 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: 'The Birds Are on Fire' 

 BODY:
The tragedy at the World Trade Center has produced scores of stories about people whose cool heads and courage saved lives. Among them are the public-school teachers who evacuated several schools that were dangerously near the collapsing towers and moved a total of 8,000 children to safety without a single serious injury. Their achievement is all the more amazing given that the disaster struck on the third day of the school year, requiring many teachers to deal with frightened children whom they hardly knew. 
 The High School of Economics and Finance and the High School of Leadership and Public Service are so close to the towers that they sustained damage from fiery debris. Yet the faculty managed to shepherd the students through smoke and chaos and find places to keep them from harm. Some took temporary shelter in a parking garage to avoid falling debris. Others were sent by ferry to Staten Island and Jersey City, where they were fed and taken care of until their parents could arrange to pick them up. The teachers at Public School 234, on Chambers Street, had to evacuate 6- and 7-year-olds during the most harrowing part of the disaster, just after the second trade center tower collapsed, enveloping the school in a debris-filled cloud. 
 Many of the children were screaming for parents who actually worked in the towers. As one teacher stepped into the street, a small child saw the burning bodies falling from the tower and cried out, "Look, teacher, the birds are on fire!" Taking some students by the hand and carrying others on their shoulders, the teachers plunged through the rubble-strewn streets that were clogged with adults running for their lives. With their small charges in tow, they walked 40 minutes north to the safety of the nearest safe school in Greenwich Village. Some children whose parents could not get to them by the close of the day went home with teachers, with whom they stayed until their mothers or fathers could be reached by phone.
With several schools closed until the cleanup in Lower Manhattan is complete, the Board of Education is scrambling for classroom space elsewhere. The beginning of the school year will be far from ideal for many children. For the time being, however, parents and city officials should be grateful for the poise and calm with which the public-school teachers of Lower Manhattan handled a life-threatening situation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TERRORISM (69%); CITIES (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); EDITORIALS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



489 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: ADVERTISING; 
The industry tries to grapple with the mood of consumers and the direction of the economy.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AS Madison Avenue continues to re-evaluate what exactly business as usual may mean after last week, analysts are pondering the short- and long-term effects on advertising related to consumer mood and the direction of the economy.
 Meantime, industry organizations like the Advertising Council and the American Association of Advertising Agencies are beginning to coordinate a response -- perhaps tardily, according to some executives who had sought action before now. 
 How consumer spending bears up in coming days and weeks is crucial, said Alan J. Gottesman, an analyst at West End Communications/Consulting in New York, because in crises, marketers have a simple strategy: "If you think consumers are not going to buy, you stop selling to them. If it looks like people are out there buying stuff, the people who make stuff will be out there selling stuff. Period. End of analysis." 
CMR, formerly Competitive Media Reporting, which tracks local and national advertising spending in major media, said categories that were particularly vulnerable included automotive, the largest, which typically accounts for 11.6 percent of annual American ad spending; financial services, about 6 percent; and travel and transportation, from airlines to lodging chains to car-rental companies, about 3.7 percent.
"Those categories were already down for the year," said David Peeler, president and chief executive at CMR in New York, "so this is just going to drop them again."
Other categories that may see declines, he added, are luxury goods; movies because of alterations to films and changed release dates; issue-advocacy and political advertising; and advertising by media companies. CMR is a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
"There's a lot of bad things to be concerned about," said Robert J. Coen, considered the leading forecaster of ad spending, because of "the uncertainty" among consumers that would probably lead them to "delay and put things off" in categories like travel. Mr. Coen is senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann in New York, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
"Everything is going to be at a standstill for a period of time" as consumers digest last week's events, said Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York. "The question is, for how long?"
Such hesitation is to be expected, he added, because "this is a bad event and consumers are going to be impacted."
As for the effect on the ad industry, Mr. Russell said: "When agencies are talking to clients to make sure everyone is O.K., that's the kind of 'normalcy,' we're dealing with right now. And that should be respected."
At the same time, Mr. Coen said, "we've lost a significant amount of dollars," as the media temporarily stopped accepting advertising and many marketers withdrew to reassess their ad plans.
How long advertisers delay returning to regular schedules may help determine how severe a slowdown occurs.
"What we're busy doing this morning is seeing how we can re-express the money our advertisers did not spend in the last five days," said Dan Rank, managing partner at OMD in New York, a media agency owned by the Omnicom Group.
While "I don't have any advertiser looking at this as an opportunity to save money," Mr. Rank added, some are considering waiting a while, when the outlook may become more certain.
Demand for advertising time and space "was soft already," Mr. Rank said, because of the sluggish economy. So the process by which compensatory ads, known as make-goods, will be scheduled should proceed more smoothly, he added, than if the economy had been robust until last week.
Turning to the advertising organizations, the Advertising Council, which is the industry's clearinghouse for public service and pro bono campaigns, said yesterday that it had volunteered its services to the White House and State Department.
"It is rather eerie to remember that the Ad Council was founded during the time of our nation's crisis in World War II," said Peggy Conlon, president and chief executive at the council in New York, referring to its start after Pearl Harbor as the War Advertising Council.
"Who would have ever thought we would have an event to compare?" Ms. Conlon added.
So far, two agencies have started working on specific campaigns, Ms. Conlon said: GSD&M in Austin, Tex., part of Omnicom, is producing one "with a message of unity and diversity," centered on "film of Americans of every nationality saying 'I am an American,' " and the New York office of McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, part of the World Group division of Interpublic, is helping with campaigns for NYC & Company, the New York City convention and visitors bureau, and the A.F.L.-C.I.O., centered on soliciting donations for victims of the attacks.
The advertising agency association, also in New York, sent members a letter yesterday from O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive, in which he asked them to contact Ms. Conlon and the council "if your agency is contemplating preparing, or has been approached to develop, disaster-related messages."
The board of the agency association is to meet next Tuesday in New York, he added, "to discuss what additional steps can and should be taken."
As for complaints from some executives about a delayed response from the industry organizations -- for instance, the association board will not meet until two weeks after the attacks -- Ms. Conlon said that "communications with our campaign sponsors and government contacts have been difficult."
There were logistical problems as well. Mr. Drake and John J. Sarsen Jr., president and chief executive at the Association of National Advertisers in New York, the trade organization for marketers, were unable to return to their offices last week because, coincidentally, they were both out of town on business and had difficulties returning to New York.
Some national television networks are undertaking separate public service initiatives.
CBS "is shooting public service announcements today with a lot of our stars for the Red Cross and other relief agencies," said George Schweitzer, executive vice president for marketing at the CBS Television Network division of CBS in New York, part of Viacom, "and we want to get them on the air as soon as we can."
"It's not 'Watch my show,' " Mr. Schweitzer added, "The point is what they're saying about assisting."
And the NBC Television Network division of NBC in New York, owned by the General Electric Company, began showing earlier than planned a new series of commercials in its long-running public service campaign, carrying the theme "The more you know." The new spots, produced in-house, seek to fight violence and prejudice and promote tolerance.
"We thought they had some particular application so we began running them on Saturday," said Kassie Canter, senior vice president for corporate communications at the network. "We also introduced some spots on Friday encouraging viewers to contribute to the Red Cross and the Salvation Army." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TERRORISM (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); HIJACKING (71%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (71%); MOVIE RELEASE DATE CHANGES (69%); MISSING PERSONS (68%); HOTEL CHAINS (66%) ADVERTISING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); ADVERTISING COUNCIL (84%) ;ADVERTISING COUNCIL; AMERICAN ASSN OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: ;ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: ;ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



490 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Attacks May Drain Income, Dow Jones Says 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Dow Jones & Company, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, already hurt by a drop in advertising, said yesterday that the attacks last week had increased the risk that its third-quarter earnings would fall short of forecasts.
 Dow Jones, which was forced to evacuate its offices across the street from the World Trade Center, said the decline in advertising at The Journal was steeper than expected, a trend some foresee across the newspaper industry. 
 "Most advertisers pull their ads in response to crisis," said Peter Appert of Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. He noted that while circulation rises to meet the rising interest in the news, higher newsprint and labor costs offset any gains. "How deep the estimate reductions go," Mr. Appert said, "depends on political and economic developments over the next couple of months." 
The shares of Dow Jones fell $3.75 yesterday, to $49.
Analysts said Dow Jones was especially vulnerable because a lot of its revenue comes from financial and technology companies. "People are still trying to figure out how to do business and put their companies back together," said Edward Atorino of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
The Journal's ad linage in July and August fell 35.4 percent; the paper had forecast a 25 to 30 percent decline. September shows no signs of improvement, Dow Jones said. 
Nevertheless, Dow Jones said it still hoped to reach the lower end of its earlier third-quarter forecast of 20 cents to 30 cents a share. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call had expected earnings of 29 cents a share, with estimates ranging from 25 cents to 32 cents.
On Friday, another big newspaper publisher, Gannett, said that ad revenue fell in August and that last week's events were likely to hurt revenue this month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); TRENDS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); NEWSPRINT (74%); PRINT ADVERTISING (73%); TERRORISM (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; FINANCES; ADVERTISING; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (97%); GANNETT CO INC (84%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (82%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DOW JONES & CO; WALL STREET JOURNAL 

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (97%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



491 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE SMALL BUSINESSES; 
In the Shadow of Wall Street, Merchants Look for Assistance

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON and JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
They may work in the shadow of Wall Street's office towers, but most of the 375,000 or so people who commute every morning to the financial district are not high-paid stockbrokers. They are florists and jewelers, card-shop owners and newsstand workers, clothing-store clerks and shoe-repair men.
 Yesterday, they were cleaning up. They were grieving. And they were trying to get solid information and financial help that, despite major governmental efforts, are in short supply so far. 
 One such person was Mary Wilson, who was trying to find out when the police would let her drive in from her home in Astoria to retrieve her hot dog wagon from a garage on Ann Street east of the trade center.
There was also the problem of where she would go, with soot still falling. "You really can't go to another person's territory, they get mad," she said. "The thing is, how's anyone around here going to want to eat, if it smells so bad?"
For Ashak Patel of Queens who runs a small newsstand on Fulton Street, the biggest loss is the receipts from the lottery. "We have no power for the machine, but everyone still wants to play," he said, adding that about a third of the $4,000 of business he lost last week would have come from the state lottery.
Some people were seeking financial assistance yesterday -- and a few have at least the promise of it. The Federal Small Business Administration has already agreed to make 10 disaster loans, totaling $448,900, said Barbara Manning, a spokeswoman for the agency. The Empire State Development Corporation said that since Thursday, 500 people have visited its business assistance center and 4,100 calls have come in on its hot line.
One person looking for a loan was Henry Mishenie, whose store, Coast to Coast Communications on Nassau Street, specializes in cellphones. That is in the area that opened up yesterday, but Mr. Mishenie said he had no phone service, and thus, no business. "I can't check people's credit," he said.
At a city assistance center on Pine Street, Mr. Mishenie said he did not know how much he might need. "We don't have income and don't know how long this will be," he said. "And I owe people money."
Another person at the center, Peter Kotsoris, said he was there to apply for a loan and to learn what damage might have been done to the Park Place building that houses his nightclub, B-52. But he did not sound optimistic about the future for his business, which drew half its customers from the trade center. "Even if we reopen," he said, "nobody will go out down there because their friends were in the World Trade Center."
Lucja Andruczyk is out of a job, missing a paycheck and unsure about her future. Ms. Andruczyk had worked as a housekeeper at the World Trade Center since 1994, a year after her family arrived here from Poland. Her paycheck was in a building that collapsed, she said, and her employer will not reissue it right away.
She has worked only one day in the past week, and has been told that most of the people who cleaned the twin towers will have to apply for unemployment insurance. But she will not know for sure until a union meeting on Thursday. Until then, "I am not thinking clearly," she said. "I cannot put it behind me."
Some people have problems that are more than monetary. On William Street, Iyskyie Yusupoe tried to explain to three police officers what had happened to the shattered door of his shop, Best Shoe Repair and Shine.
Was anything taken? Mr. Yusupoe said he did not know, but perhaps he would not say. Where is he from? Russia, he said, after a long pause, looking at a woman in a head scarf and embroidered top who was watching television news. Will he reopen? Yes, he said, "I like this area."
Kasim Ghonoja said he had no problem reopening Ray's Jewelry on Hanover Square. Things were not even too dusty, and the store will reopen on Friday after closing for the Jewish holidays. No problem, he repeated -- "except I miss my brother."
His 23-year-old brother-in-law, Eli Chalouh, was in the trade center when it collapsed; Mr. Ghonoja said he had been searching the hospitals for four days, to no avail.
Most were far luckier. Cleaning was the major order of the day at many places yesterday. At Rochester Big & Tall on Wall Street at Pearl, Robert Butler had his tie-wearing salesmen spritzing the doors and wiping them with paper towels.
At the American Greeting store on Nassau Street, Rich Kromer and his staff were dusting the hordes of porcelain angels and snowman figurines and big-eyed moppet statuettes. A door lock wasn't working, Mr. Kromer said, but the store's only losses were some knickknacks in the windows that were smashed after the explosions nearby.
Michael Karp's employees at Ranch 1 Chicken were using Lysol and hoses to swab down the sandwich store on Pearl Street, in hopes of opening by 12:30. "We will not open if I see this," he warned, running a finger along a molding and displaying the dust. 
While many merchants fretted that business would be slow, plenty of people came into Dick's Hardware store on Pearl Street when it reopened yesterday, in search of brooms, flashlights or other cleanup aids. The trouble was that Dick's had none to sell; the police commandeered anything useful last Tuesday.
"Ropes, batteries, power tools, snow shovels -- you name it, they took it," said Michael Ullman, whose family has been running the business since 1956. "Of course, none of us were thinking about money at that point, but now I'm hoping we'll get paid soon so we can stay in business." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (86%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); LOTTERIES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); TERRORISM (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; CREDIT; SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%) ;SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION; EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; FRIED, JOSEPH P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



492 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: The Economy, Too, Will Recover 

BYLINE:  By Stephen S. Roach; Stephen S. Roach is chief economist and director of global economics for Morgan Stanley.

DATELINE: ROTTERDAM, the Netherlands 

 BODY:
The United States economy and the broader global economy were probably in a mild recession before the devastating terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. The shock that America now feels can only make matters worse for a while. Yesterday's wrenching drop in world financial markets suggests that investors have been quick to figure this out.
 Yet even in this despair, hope for recovery exists. The markets are responding to the extraordinary blow of the terrorist attacks, and the painful impact of that blow on American confidence and optimism will eventually dissipate. Just as the business cycle proved to be alive and well in the economic downturn this year, now it is only a matter of when and under what conditions an upswing will occur. 
 This global recession had been in the making for some time. During the latter half of the 1990's, booming American economic growth probably accounted for as much as 40 percent of the cumulative increase in world output. But that means that the world economy had become overly dependent on American growth, making it exceptionally vulnerable to changes in our economy.
Unfortunately, America's boom contained the seeds of the bust that emerged just about a year ago. The Nasdaq bubble infected the broader economy. Consumers mistakenly viewed the stock market as a new and permanent source of saving. They let personal saving rates plunge to nearly 70-year lows; they also went heavily into debt. Corporations made similar mistakes, overinvesting in information technologies.
Once the bubble popped, these excesses diminished. Asia, at the other end of global supply chains that connect American companies to offshore producers, was hit hard by the end of the technology-driven boom. America's Nafta partners, Canada and Mexico, also felt impacts, since their exports to the United States account for more than 25 percent of their gross domestic products.
Asian weakness then took a toll on Europe and Japan, resulting in an unusually swift and sharp deceleration in the flow of global trade. The three largest economies of the world -- the United States, Japan and Germany -- collectively contracted in the second quarter of 2001.
Just days before Sept. 11, there were additional signs of rapid deterioration in the economy. The unemployment rate rose by four-tenths of a percentage point to 4.9 percent in August -- an unusually sharp increase by any standards. Layoffs rose further in early September. And then came the toughest news of all -- a sharp decline in consumer confidence reported by the University of Michigan right before the terrorist attacks.
In that context, the attacks on America are likely to inflict a devastating economic blow, given the effect on the fragile state of consumer confidence. In the face of fears about national security, consumers will almost certainly defer all but the most essential purchases, putting cars, furniture, appliances and vacations on hold. And barring a swift and decisive victory over terrorism, consumer confidence is likely to be subdued for some time.
This could well be the transforming event of the American and global business cycle. For the past year, the downturn has been driven mainly by weakness in business spending on information technologies. Now that downturn will be made worse by weakness in consumer demand -- which until now has been the most resilient factor in the economy.
This has important implications for the broader global economy, as well. Asian markets were hoping to weather the worst of America's technology-led downturn. Countries like China, which sold the United States more consumer goods than technology products, could fend off a deep economic slide if American consumer confidence and purchasing stayed high. Now even that is gone. The result is likely to be a deeper and longer global recession than we had expected.
But the unique nature of this downturn -- sealed by a brutal act of terrorism -- also means that recovery may come as America begins the process of healing. 
Yesterday's half-a-percentage-point cut in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve was the eighth cut this year. There is now plenty of monetary stimulus. Washington has also swiftly decided to provide a $40 billion emergency spending package to cover some of the costs related to last week's attacks, and more expenditures are likely as planning begins for more internal security and military actions. 
The sharp decline in world stock markets yesterday shows it is too early for investors to start banking on the recovery that will eventually follow. In large part, that is because financial markets had previously been hoping that an upturn was just around the corner. Those hopes have been broken. But painful dislocations in financial markets are unavoidable in every recession after every boom. The stock market drop shows that investors have become more realistic in assessing a worsening outlook. That suggests that financial markets now have a better chance to stabilize and then respond to any new shifts in the economic climate. It is out of such capitulation that the seeds of recovery are often sown. That remains the hope for a world now in recession. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); LAYOFFS (60%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

PERSON: ROACH, STEPHEN S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (67%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



493 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Securing the Skies 

 BODY:
All airports but Washington's Reagan National have reopened in the aftermath of last week's attack, but commercial aviation in the United States has been forever altered. The premium is now on security instead of convenience and speed. That is the only sensible course after hijackers seized control of four passenger planes and turned three of them into weapons of mass destruction. 
 Few freedoms are as vital to the nation's character, and essential to its economy, as the freedom to travel. But to ensure that it is preserved, the rules and expectations of flying have to change. The freedom to wake up in New York and get to San Francisco in time for lunch is going to have to give way to the freedom to get to San Francisco safely, even if it takes all day. 
 Americans should accept more stringent security not as a short-term inconvenience but as a permanent redefinition of the flying experience. No longer can passengers expect to arrive at the airport 30 minutes before departure or check in at an automated kiosk that handles security questions the way A.T.M.'s ask if you want a receipt. 
The Federal Aviation Administration has banned curbside check-in and will allow only ticketed passengers to go to the gate. It has called for more uniformed law enforcement agents, individual searches and luggage-matching to ensure that everyone who checks a bag boards the flight. Passengers will no longer be able to carry small knives or other cutting devices aboard. 
It is a reassuring start, but only that. A more fundamental long-term overhaul is needed to properly police the stream of two million passengers each day onto 40,000 flights. In light of last week's attacks, vigilance at airports must be deemed a matter of national security. It can no longer be delegated to airlines and their undertrained and underpaid private guards. 
The glaring vulnerabilities in the present system have been extensively diagnosed in a series of presidential commissions and other reviews. Weapons are often not caught by screeners, unauthorized personnel can easily gain access to aircraft, and workers who are authorized to get near the planes have not had their backgrounds checked. Airlines have been slow to deploy the most sophisticated bomb-scanning devices. Passenger lists are not screened for potential terrorists. Shockingly, two of the hijackers last week were able to buy tickets under their own names and board their flights despite being on the F.B.I.'s terrorism watch list. 
For years, pilot training and airline procedures have reflected the prevailing wisdom that it is best to cooperate with hijackers until a plane has landed safely. But security measures must now be updated to account for the possibility of more airliners being turned into weapons. Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta has rightly called for a revival of the "sky marshal" program, whereby armed undercover agents are placed on flights. He has also appointed separate advisory commissions to recommend, within two weeks, additional airport security measures and to look at ways of fortifying cockpit doors. The government must also consider creating a specialized airport security force.
As airlines cut back on service to accommodate the new security procedures, consumers will have to live with fewer choices. The men and women who perished last week would gladly have accepted a slower, less convenient air travel system if they knew it meant the difference between life and death. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (67%); MISSING PERSONS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (52%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDITORIALS; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; GUARDS; MARSHALS; WAGES AND SALARIES 

PERSON: ;MINETA, NORMAN Y (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



494 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
The Big Terrible

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan 

 BODY:
By quirk of fate I have been in Jordan for much of the World Trade Center crisis. Sitting here, I've been struck by the number of e-mails that have reached me from friends around the Arab-Muslim world -- from Kuwait and Cairo, from Lebanon and Turkey -- all just wanting to say how upset they were with what happened and checking if the family was O.K. In their own way, they each echoed what a secretary in Jordan tried to say to me in the most eloquent broken English -- that this terrorist attack was "the big terrible." 
 I relate this not to suggest that my friends around the Middle East reflect all public opinion out here. They do not. One need only visit some of the most popular Arabic Web sites and chat rooms to see that public opinion in the Arab world is split about 50-50 -- between those appalled by the bombing and those applauding it. The harshest e-mails, Arab techies tell me, come from Islamists in Saudi Arabia and the gulf, home to some of the hijackers. 
 No, I relate this simply to say that America still has many admirers in this part of the world. For all that Middle Easterners get enraged with America, many others value it, envy it and want their kids there. They envy the sense of ownership that Americans have over their own government, they envy its naive optimism, its celebration of individual freedom and its abiding faith that the past won't always bury the future. For a brief, terrifying moment last week people out here got a glimpse of what the world could be like without America, and many did not like it. America is not something external to them; people carry around pieces of it in ways often not articulated.
Why does all this matter? Because we need the help of the moderate Arab states to fight this war. And for now, most of these Arab leaders are ready to cooperate with us -- because enough of their publics are tilted our way. But the moderate Arab leaders are praying that the U.S. will proceed carefully and surgically, because they know that public opinion here, even after all the American deaths, is by no means solidly pro-American.
On Sunday I interviewed Jordan's King Abdullah, one of America's real friends. He had three wise messages: We can win if you Americans don't forget who you are, if you don't forget who your friends are and if we work together. "The terrorists are trying to break down the fabric of the U.S.," said the Jordanian monarch. "They want to break down what America stands for. The terrorists actually want to provoke attacks on Arabs or Muslims in the U.S., because if the American communities start going after each other, if we see America fragment, then you destroy that special thing that America stands for. That's what the terrorists want -- they want to be able to turn to your friends here and say, 'Look, this is all a myth.' 
"That is why you have to be very careful when you respond -- make sure you respond in a way that punishes the real perpetrators, that brings justice, not revenge, because otherwise you will be going against your own ideals, and that is what the terrorists want most." 
At the same time, U.S. strategy can't just be about punishing the bad guys. It also has to be about helping the good guys. Jordan is a country with a decent government and an economy that -- despite the Intifada -- grew 3.9 percent last year, thanks largely to a free-market approach, with an emphasis on software, technology and textile development that is drawing U.S. investors. That's a lot of jobs. (Jordan is also the first Arab country to sign a free trade agreement with the U.S., but ratification has been foolishly held up by the Senate.) In short, Jordan is becoming a good Arab model for how to do things right. We have a fundamental interest in this model succeeding, for all its neighbors to see. Terrorists thrive in failing, stagnant, weak states with illegitimate regimes -- not countries on the rise.
Which brings up the king's last point: "The bad guys work together, but we don't. The terrorist groups are a global organization. They know how to cooperate and stay focused on their military objectives. We have not. Some people didn't want to share intelligence. Some said, Islamic terrorism is not my problem, and looked the other way. We can defeat them, but only if we learn to cooperate globally as effectively as they do." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CHAT ROOMS (77%); RELIGION (77%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); BOMBINGS (70%); POLITICS (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; ABDULLAH (KING) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JORDAN (96%); KUWAIT (92%); LEBANON (92%); TURKEY (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); JORDAN; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



495 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Ulster Catholic Leader Resigns from Party Post
John Hume, a leader of the Catholic civil rights movement in Northern Ireland for the last 40 years, announced in Belfast that he was stepping down as head of the province's Social Democratic and Labor Party. Mr. Hume, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1998, said the timing of his resignation was dictated by his deteriorating health. A3

Optimism After Korea Talks
North and South Korean negotiators broke through a six-month hiatus in negotiations with a sweeping agreement on a new round of family visits starting next month. The president of South Korea, Kim Dae Jung, who has made better relations with the North a priority of his administration, indicated his relief that the talks had taken place. A5

Experts Needed in East Timor
Constitutionalists offering their expertise to new or reforming nations will begin arriving soon in East Timor as they draw up the written foundations for statehood. Last month East Timor, newly independent from Indonesia, elected an 88-member council to draw up a constitution and gave it just 90 days to do so. At the moment, there is essentially no expertise here in constitution-making. Only three council members have studied law. A10

Third Year of Drought in Iran
The country's largest body of fresh water, the seventh largest in the world, is now desert. The worst drought in 30 years is strangling Sistan-Baluchistan Province. A4

Forces Approved in Macedonia
Bowing to European Union pressure, the Macedonian government approved the deployment of a modest NATO security force to shore up a precarious peace agreement with the rebellious Albanian minority. Macedonia's reluctant Parliament now looms as the last major hurdle in a process aimed at defusing the fifth ethnic conflict in the Balkans since 1991. A3

Peace Efforts in Middle East
The violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip continued as Palestinian and Israeli leaders issued statements in response to urgent calls from the United States for truce talks. Since the attacks in the United States last week, Washington has called for greater efforts to end a year of Israeli-Palestinian violence as the Americans try to bring Arab and Islamic states into a coalition to repel terrorism. The European Union is also pursuing efforts to bring the two sides together for truce talks. A7

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A14-20

A Rift Over Rights For Rio Grande Water
Tensions are growing between South Texas farmers and Mexico over water rights to the Rio Grande after one of the driest summers on record along the border. Mexico has warned that not only will it fail to meet a Sept. 30 deadline to release millions of gallons of water it is required by treaty to provide farmers for irrigation but also that it needs to hold back even more water because of the prolonged drought. A14

Accusation Prompts Audit
Regulators have ordered an audit of Duke Power's financial statements to determine if the company underreported income to avoid cutting rates for two million customers in North Carolina and South Carolina. Internal company documents obtained by The State newspaper in Columbia, S.C., indicate that top Duke executives discussed underreporting income as early as December 1998, the newspaper said. The documents discussed how Duke Power could avoid exceeding its "allowed return." A16

E.P.A. Nominee Withdraws
Donald Schregardus, the Ohio environmental regulator nominated by President Bush to be the top law enforcement official of the Environmental Protection Agency, withdrew his name from consideration, saying that it was clear that his nomination "will not be considered in a timely manner." Several Democratic senators and environmental groups said Mr. Schregardus had been lax in enforcing pollution laws in Ohio. A16

Search After a Bridge Collapse
Recovery crews resumed searching the water for the bodies of people who may have been trapped in their cars after driving off a bridge that partly collapsed when it was hit by barges and a tugboat. The police said that at least five people had been confirmed dead and that an unknown number were missing in the Intracoastal Waterway after the collision on Saturday knocked out part of the bridge, the Queen Isabella Causeway, the only one linking Port Isabel and South Padre Island. A18

Murderer Escapes From Jail
A convicted murderer escaped from a Mississippi jail on Sunday, a day before he was to stand trial for a 1995 stabbing death. The inmate, Kenneth Moody, 26, and his cellmate, Scotty Thomas, 33, somehow obtained a hacksaw blade, cut through an air-conditioning duct, and crawled through the duct to the roof, officials said. They jumped to the ground and vanished. The authorities began a manhunt and said that the two men should be considered extremely dangerous. (AP)

OBITUARIES C14

Fred De Cordova
One of the leading producers in the early days of the television industry and the producer of "The Tonight Show" for Johnny Carson, he was 90. C14

NEW YORK/REGION A24-28

Candidates in New Jersey Refocus Their Campaigns
Bret D. Schundler, the Republican nominee for governor, said he was resuming the business of politics, but with a new focus. He emphasized finding ways to defend the state against terrorism and to speed the rebuilding of the New York and New Jersey regional economy. Mr. Schundler's Democratic opponent, James E. McGreevey, went to Jersey City with donated food and water and on Sunday, he spoke at an interfaith memorial service in Woodbridge that was not widely publicized. A24

More Trials Postponed
In the New York State courts that opened just north of the financial district, the phones were not working and the servers that feed each courtroom's internal computer network were down. Consequently, hundreds of trials were postponed, for the fifth business day in a row. A24

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

New Challenge for Spacecraft
The Deep Space 1 probe will try to beat long odds later this week by flying close to the heart of a large comet, Borrelly, and taking photographs. F5

Health & Fitness F6

FASHION E8

ARTS E1-6

Readers Seek Explanations
Sales of books that might offer some information and explanations related to last week's terrorist attacks surged as people rushed to purchase treatises on terrorism and the Arab world and biographies of the World Trade Center. Many people loaded up on works that some believe predicted the tragic event, the writings of Nostradamus, a 16th-century French soothsayer. E1

SPORTS C15-19

Baseball Resumes
Major League Baseball cranked up again, beginning an extended schedule after six days and 91 games of postponements. Security was tighter, ceremonies were planned, and "God Bless America" replaced "Take Me Out to the Ballgame" at the seventh-inning stretch. C15

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Software Maker's Woes
Lawrence J. Ellison, the chief executive of Oracle, a maker of business software, said the threat of war could drive sales of its software licenses down 15 percent, a sharper decline than the company had expected. The company said it expected an increase in sales to the federal government and law enforcement agencies, but a drop in sales to other customers. C13

Worries for Financial Services
American Express and Citigroup said the terrorist attacks last week would significantly reduce earnings and would cost them millions of dollars. American Express said less travel, a decline in mutual fund sales and falling consumer spending would probably push profits lower. Citigroup said losses might reach $700 million because of insurance claims and lost revenue at its securities and banking units. C13

Inventories Continue to Fall
Inventories of unsold goods at American companies fell in July for a sixth consecutive month and sales increased, the government reported. C13

Dow Jones Earnings Down
Dow Jones, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, which had already been hurt by a steep slump in advertising, said that there was now an increased risk that its third-quarter earnings would fall short of forecasts. C13

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Wall Street returns; securing the skies; "the birds are on fire."
Columns:Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E2
Weather C19

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); DROUGHT (87%); WATER RIGHTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); RELIGION (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%); TERRORISM (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); APPROVALS (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (91%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



496 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Stock Market Reopens, And Share Prices Fall
Six days after the worst terrorist attack on United States soil, the nation's stock market reopened and prices plummeted, reflecting investors' concerns about already fragile world economies pushed closer to the brink.
 Prices of stocks and bonds sank in spite of efforts by the Federal Reserve and other central banks to buoy the markets. Before stocks opened for trading, the Fed cut its benchmark rate by half of a percentage point. Page A1. 

Never before has a day in which the stock market tumbled so far seemed like a good day. But yesterday was a day unlike any other. The losses were smaller than many had expected, and they reflected a surge of buying by ordinary Americans, who were evidently convinced that it was patriotic to be bullish.
Floyd Norris: Market Place A1.

Trading Floor Moves to New Jersey
From where E. Stanley O'Neal, the president of Merrill Lynch, stood yesterday morning, the raucous trading floor behind him looked like a familiar Wall Street landscape. But instead of being at the World Financial Center in Manhattan, this trading floor was on the 10th floor of an office tower in Jersey City. C3.

Merchants Look for Assistance
Most of the 375,000 or so people who commute to the financial district are not high-paid stockbrokers. They are florists and jewelers, card-shop owners and newsstand guys. Yesterday, they were cleaning up. They were grieving. And they were trying to get information and financial help that, despite major governmental efforts, are in short supply so far. C9.

Buffett Backs Away From Offer
Warren E. Buffett backed away from a tender offer for Finova Group, saying that he was free to do so because the attack on the World Trade Center amounted to a war. C5.

Insurance Brokers Search for Help
Days after escaping from the 92nd floor of 2 World Trade Center, Brian Cohen, who works for the insurance broker Aon, was on the phone to a client, J. C. Penney. With his computer and files destroyed, there was not much he could do. But he was back at work. And one of his first instincts was to call customers. C8.

Evaluating the Effect on Advertising
As Madison Avenue continues to re-evaluate what business as usual may mean after last week, analysts are pondering the effects on advertising and the direction of the economy. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C9.

Oracle Says License Sales May Fall
Oracle, a maker of business software, said the threat of war could drive sales of its software licenses down 15 percent. C13.

2 Companies Warn on Earnings
Two financial services companies said last week's attacks would significantly reduce their earnings. American Express lowered its forecast for the third quarter, and Citigroup said its losses might reach $700 million because of insurance claims and lost revenue at its securities and banking units. C13.

Vodafone Plans Move in Japan
The Vodafone Group said it would buy an additional 21.7 percent of Japan Telecom, a purchase that would give it a controlling interest in the company. World Business, Section W.

G.M. Agrees to Buy Part of Daewoo
General Motors has reached an agreement to buy most of the Daewoo Motor Company for about $1 billion. World Business, Section W.

Inventories Decreased in July
Inventories of unsold goods at companies fell in July for a sixth consecutive month and sales increased before last week's attacks. C13.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,920.70 down 684.81Nasdaq composite -- 1,579.55 down 115.8310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.62% up 0.07The euro -- $0.9244 up 0.0028The dollar -- 117.73 yen up 0.44 Graph: "TODAY" shows the consumer price index from February-July 2001.August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern timeExpected: +0.2% Graph shows Citigroup share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); TENDER OFFERS (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BONDS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (67%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (62%); SALES & SELLING (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



497 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE VOICES; 
Stock Investors Shrug Off a Plunge and Wait

BYLINE:  By N. R. KLEINFIELD with DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
As the trading rituals of capitalism re-established themselves yesterday, individual investors watched the sobering saw-toothed lines of the indexes and the ever-tumbling prices, feeling the apprehension of badly shaken markets.
 Some bought, especially in the morning, and many others abruptly sold. But, to a large extent, they waited. 
 "It wasn't a day to trade," said Lorraine Trapp, who works in New York in the circulation department of a magazine. "It just wasn't." 
Friends had suggested that she buy, and told her to look at this stock, that stock. "I want to wait," she said. 
It was the first opportunity since the terrorist attack for Americans to wade into the stock market and buy, sell or do nothing at all. Throughout the last week, even as the subject of the idle markets increasingly crept into news reports trying to gauge the ramifications of the devastation, it seemed crass to think about money. What mattered was life itself.
But with the opening of the stock exchanges yesterday, after four days of suspended trading, there was no avoiding the subject. Individuals had to make decisions.
But even as the Dow Jones industrial average shrank by hundreds of points and the Nasdaq found itself rudely battered, many individuals remained remarkably calm and unflinching.
The tragic context in which the trading took place was so extraordinary that perhaps never before would an individual investor have spoken of the Dow as did Gordon Morlan, 65, a retired teacher in Grosse Pointe Park, Mich.: "We were concerned to see it dip 600 points. But, on the other hand, I consider that to be a reasonable adjustment." 
Certainly there were people who sold, some compelled by margin calls to put up more cash, after shares they had bought with borrowed money plunged in value, and others simply wishing to return money to safer refuges.
There were still others who bought, out of an expanded sense of patriotism or because they sniffed bargains. But interviews with investors around the country indicated that the prevalent sentiment in one of the market's riskiest days was to hold fast.
In Pocahontas, Ark., Henry McNabb, 42, was up and ready at 6 a.m. for the market opening at 8:30 Central time, giving him hours of time to worry. In the office of his funeral home -- outside, American flags were draped from the 12 light posts that lined the parking lot -- he clicked on the television and channel-surfed among CNBC, ABC, NBC and CBS, absorbing market intelligence as fast as it was broadcast. He switched on his computer and logged onto an Internet stock quote service.
He was ready for action. But as the markets commenced their relentless downward path, he was a study in inaction. He did not activate his Charles Schwab account. He did not send a sell order. "I'm a little bit encouraged," he said, even as the averages sank by 5 percent right at the start. "I'm just watching, hoping and praying we recover, hoping we don't go into a depression." 
Patrick O'Byrne, 33, and his wife, Geri, are saving to buy a house in Bergen County, N.J. They have money in three mutual funds, all of it earmarked for their down payment. On Sunday night, they compared thoughts about what to do when the markets reopened. They seriously thought about pulling out, but ultimately decided to do nothing.
"I think a lot of people are just scared and want to take their money and put it in a pillowcase," Mr. O'Byrne said. "I don't blame anyone for looking out for their own interests financially, their own concerns, but I am confident that we will recover."
Leong Joe Tsung, 40, a production worker at AOL Time Warner who lives in Princeton, N.J., has a substantial investment portfolio, 100 percent of it in stocks. He, too, took no action yesterday. "I don't want to take advantage of the situation," he said. "Today is not a day to be doing much with money."
Nikolaos Monoyios, a portfolio manager for OppenheimerFunds who escaped the World Trade Center last week and took up an office in central New Jersey, was asked by his 22-year-old daughter whether she should buy stocks to display her patriotism. Mr. Monoyios advised her against acting on her emotions. "Just do nothing," he said. 
There was so much information to digest and make sense of. There was the Federal Reserve slicing interest rates, the parade of companies promising to buy back their own shares, the repeated calls over the weekend to buy, or at least not sell, out of patriotic resolve. 
While many investors felt patriotism did not necessarily extend to stock market activity, others were moved by the messages. "We owe it to the memory of the people who were killed not to sell stock," said David Grossberg, an independent businessman from Albertson, N.Y. "I'm not selling at all. I find it offensive."
Or, as JoAnn Kelly, a retired banker who lives in Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich., said: "We are sitting tight. We basically feel that if people panic, then that hurts all of us."
Fidelity, the big investment house, said call volume was high but below what was expected, that buy orders exceeded sell orders, and that "people were very measured." Vanguard mobilized 300 members of its "Swiss Army," a contingent of former and current workers, including the company's chief executive, John J. Brennan, to assist taxed phone operators. The flow of calls was heavy in the morning, but then most of the Swiss Army was disbanded.
There were any number of individuals who could not cope with another day of worry. An investor in his mid-50's, who asked not to be identified because he had just learned that a friend had died in the World Trade Center collapse, was at the Schwab office in Rockefeller Center before the market opened because he wanted to move his portfolio of about $250,000 from a stock mutual fund into a money market fund. He had left the money planted in stocks during the gyrations of the past, but had reached his limit of tolerance.
"It's lower earnings but it's lower risk," said the investor, who is semiretired after having been laid off last year. "When you have worked for 30 years for your money, you don't want it to evaporate in a day."
Others plunged in and bought. Todd Shapiro, who owns a public relations firm in Hauppauge, N.Y., bought 100 shares of I.B.M. and 500 of AOL Time Warner when the market was down 600 points. "I think it's important now to support our economy in time of need," he said. "It was an unbelievable buying opportunity. Like our country, the market will be back stronger than ever." 
John Mannino, 47, who owns a restaurant marketing company in Broomall, Pa., also saw opportunity. "G.E. is trading in the low 30's; they're practically giving it away," he said. "I was waiting for a climate to give me a signal that it was time to expand my G.E. position, and now I can." 
In Milwaukee, Gregory Mews checked stock quotes on a cellphone as he worked. Mr. Mews, 48, is the assistant manager of a Walgreens and the treasurer of a small investment club. Before the attack, the club's account had dwindled to $525,000 from $750,000 at the start of last year. But at a meeting on Thursday, the members decided that terrorist strikes would not cause them to shrink from the stock market. They voted to buy additional shares of EMC, the big data storage company. 
Some other investors, hard as it may seem to believe, tuned out entirely.
Robert Croskery, a 68-year-old retired clergyman who lives in Cincinnati, has money in about 40 stocks, about half of them blue chips like Eli Lilly and Procter & Gamble. Fortunately, he did have a longstanding rule of never investing in airlines, which were particularly savaged in yesterday's trading.
Not only did he not buy or sell yesterday, he did not even turn on the television or the radio to check on the market's decimation. "I'm concerned," he said. "But I'm invested in what I believe are quality issues." 
He said he would wait until he got today's newspaper to see how the market did. In the meantime, he washed his car. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin J. Whitman, chairman of Third Avenue Trust, wore a denim shirt and fleece vest at the company's offices yesterday. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); TERRORISM (74%); HIJACKING (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



498 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Statement About Rates 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy panel, decided to lower interest rates: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points, to 3 percent. 
In a related action, the board of governors approved a 50-basis-point reduction in the discount rate to 2 1/2 percent. The Federal Reserve will continue to supply unusually large volumes of liquidity to the financial markets, as needed, until more normal market functioning is restored. As a consequence, the F.O.M.C. recognizes that the actual federal funds rate may be below its target on occasion in these unusual circumstances. 
 Even before the tragic events of last week, employment, production, and business spending remained weak, and last week's events have the potential to damp spending further. Nonetheless, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. For the foreseeable future, the committee continues to believe that against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness. 
In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); MONETARY POLICY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); APPROVALS (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



499 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTORS; 
There's Little Sign of Panic In Firm's Hot-Stove League

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Like clockwork, Gene Morgan arrived at 10 a.m. today at the main branch of Charles Schwab to hash over the stock market with a group of fellow retirees. Mr. Morgan, 80, a retired lawyer, wore his characteristic pinstriped suit, and he said it was precisely days like these that reinforced the importance of dressing well, even when just hanging out with friends.
 "The more difficult the conditions, the better dressed you need to be," he said, adding with tongue planted sufficiently in cheek to elicit laughter from his friends, "You've got to go down with the flags flying." 
 They have gathered many mornings over the years, leaning against the railing across from the electronic ticker, their fingers tucked in the front of their pants, and discussing everything under the sun -- but mostly stocks. Today's topic was last week's terrorist attacks, and what they meant to the country. 
"Just hold in there," said Glen Brakefield, 77, a retired merchant seaman who served in World War II. A sturdy fellow, Mr. Brakefield told his compatriots there was no sense selling stocks in a panic, since the market would come back as it always had. "What's the hurry?"
Mr. Morgan took polite issue. "I must differ with my friend about hanging on," he said. Mr. Morgan acknowledged that his interest was academic, since he had little to invest these days. But based on years as a day trader, he did have firm advice: "Get out and stay out until the end of the year."
The debate was far from theoretical to investors who trickled in to use computer terminals to check their portfolios or to place trades. They assessed how much damage they had been dealt and whether to liquidate, or, as some economists and politicians have urged, hold tight in a show of patriotism.
One investor, Amy Thai, 35, a dental hygienist, stopped in to check on her family's investments. Last Friday, six members of her family met to discuss how to handle their investments. They decided to hold -- not wanting to sell in a panic and feeling that it would be unpatriotic to sell.
"I feel confident we have good companies," she said, adding, "If we sell stocks, we'll be showing that terrorists affected our economy."
From another terminal, a voice rose out. "Merck is up," said Herman Moss, 73, a retired programmer and member of the informal investing klatch. The report set off a small debate, and a fierce commentary from Alfred R. Karahadian, 84.
Mr. Karahadian said the terrorist attack was "taking its toll," but with important exceptions.
"It's not across the board," he said. "Drug stocks are up." He added that he was surprised the market had not fared much worse, but even if it had, he was standing firm.
"I learned hard lessons as a young buck," he said. "These corrections come and go, and I just ride them out."
Mr. Karahadian seemed to be the unofficial group's unofficial dean, and he got a great deal of attention because he flew B-24 bombers in World War II. When he entered Schwab around 10:45, a friend ribbed him that it appeared the Air Force was out of business last week when it did not intercept the hijacked planes.
"Just be patient," Mr. Karahadian said, a bit sternly. "They've got something in the works." 
Indeed, members of this group bring a perspective of having seen many high and low points in American history. But to a man, they said they had never seen anything like last week's attacks.
One man, a 55-year-old who apparently was the junior member, said he had protested American involvement in conflicts since he had returned from Vietnam. But the man, an advertising executive who insisted on anonymity, said his pacifist leanings were being tested now.
"This is the first time where I'm walking a fine line," he said. He said he did not mind seeing the guilty punished but did not want innocent people or civilians injured.
His elders, meanwhile, seemed to think that though this event was different from anything they had seen, it was in one crucial way no different. The stock market, the economy, and America in general have been rocked before, but they always bounce back, they said.
"It'll come back," Mr. Brakefield said of the market. "We always come back." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); HIJACKING (73%); ORAL HYGIENE (70%); BONDS (65%); WORLD WAR II (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SCHWAB, CHARLES, CORP 

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES R SCHWAB (58%) ;RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



500 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE SCENE; 
Wall Street Returns to Work, Finding Good in Falling Prices

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY with DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
Barricaded, its stone pillars bandaged in American flags, dust lapping its sidewalks, the New York Stock Exchange re-opened yesterday in a burst of patriotism and closed at a sharp low, its rallies and deeper dips mirroring its patrons' mixed mood of defiance and fear.
 "People felt they were doing what they should do, doing their duty," Richard A. Rosenblatt, a floor trader on the exchange and a veteran of financial crises going back to the 1970's, explained as the market closed. 
 "This was about getting the markets open and keeping them orderly and showing the world that we're not beaten, said Mr. Rosenblatt, who owns a trading company bearing his name.
"This wasn't about making good trades. It was about going on." Even before market jitters set in, there was a kind of physical anxiety, or perhaps just a dread of reliving Tuesday, all around the ghostly financial district, as brokers gingerly stepped out from downtown subway stops at 7:30, walked past police barriers, rows of masked rescue workers and breathed in the disaster. 
"The smell is everywhere, it stinks," an aghast trader in an elegant gray suit, decked with a red, white and blue lapel ribbon, whispered into his cellphone as he made his way to the stock exchange. He listened, then blurted out that which seemingly motivated thousands of others to return to work yesterday. "I guess I just wanted to be here." Another pause. "I love you." 
For him, like so many others, just getting back to work was the real profit of the day. Traders took subways instead of limousines, trudged on foot from the Staten Island Ferry, and began lining up at 7:30 outside the exchange to have their bags searched and ID tags checked. Jeffrey Atwood, 49, a staff manager for Syscore Solutions International, a technology company that serves finance companies, took his laptop, a large white pail and a mop on the subway to his dust-filled office building at 15 Maiden Lane. "I just want everything to be as normal as possible," he explained.
Business executives, investors, brokers, subway workers and hot-dog vendors all seemed to agree on at least one thing -- after four edgy days when the market stayed shut, business as usual, even if bad, was far better than not opening at all. 
And alongside hardheaded sell orders, there was also a marketwide mood to loosen the normal rules of engagement. Buyers and sellers of government bonds, for example, agreed to give each other more time to complete their trades. Both the New York Stock Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange made space available today on their floors for their rival, the American Stock Exchange, which lost communications throughout its building, situated behind Trinity Church south of the World Trade Center.
Across the river, in Jersey City, a shadow Wall Street filled with refugees from Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers began work shortly after dawn.
It was not the kind of day that matched anyone's memories.
"We've had dramatic markets in the past, but never anything that was so related to history before. So many of us have friends who are missing, there is that tremendous feeling of loss," said Jay Mahoney, a trader known as a specialist who is responsible for making an orderly market in several stocks. As he spoke, brokers, traders and clerks swarmed around him, squinting at electronic stock quote screens that all carried the words "God Bless America."
Before the opening bell at 9:30, everyone on the floor, a few traders with telephone headphones already nestled on their ears, bowed their heads for a two-minute silence to honor those who died in Tuesday's terrorist attack.
Mr. Mahoney noted that the sentiment that enveloped the floor before it opened as a United States marine sang "God Bless America," cleared as soon as the bell rang. As expected, stock prices began to sink. "When the market opens, it's instinct," Mr. Mahoney said. "People know what to do."
Richard A. Grasso, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, led the opening ceremony surrounded by, among other local and national leaders, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill. The honor of ringing the opening bell went to a firefighter, police officers and an emergency services worker. 
"Today, America goes back to business," Mr. Grasso told waiting traders. "We do it as a signal to those criminals who inflicted this heinous crime on America and all Americans, they have lost."
Later, less than an hour before the market closed at 4 p.m., a weary Mr. Grasso said that the sell-off could have been worse. 
"Given the lack of trading over the past days, the enormous tragedy foisted on the community, and the president saying we are going to war, there is good liquidity in the market," he said."The message we are sending to the world is that you don't measure the market by one single day's performance." 
Businesses from far beyond Wall Street were relieved to see the markets reopen, said Jay Alix, president of Jay Alix & Associates in Southfield, Mich., which advises struggling companies or those already in bankruptcy. "The global economic heartbeat still happens in the financial district of New York," Mr. Alix said. "It gives people hope to see the capital markets functioning again."
Around noon, tourists and New Yorkers streamed toward Wall Street. On Williams Street, crowds paused to watch rescue workers. Others froze at the intersection of Williams and Liberty Streets to stare through dust at the listing skeleton of the World Trade Center. Some wept. A few crossed themselves.
Others whipped out cameras to take pictures, and a few narrated home videos.
Frank Murphy, 58, an employee of LaBranche & Company, a specialist firm, said, "You can see this on television, this scene, but when you come here and see that's what's left of these two towers, it's almost too much to bear." He said the resumption of trading "has nothing to do with profitability," adding, "it has to do with continuing." 
A few on the floor said they felt pumped up by the praise wafting their way. Bankers and stock market traders are not always cast as heros, so yesterday's mingling of star-spangled patriotism and profits came as a boost to many. "I came here with lots of adrenaline," Mr. Mahoney explained. "The mood is kind of set up by all the news programs. They focus on us more than they ever have -- at no other time has the whole world waited to see how we do." 
Some patriotic gestures had more muscle in the market than others. New York State Controller H. Carl McCall announced at midday that the pension fund for state employees had invested a fresh $250 million in the shares that make up the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. That index had fallen almost 5 percent by the time the market closed, but Mr. McCall was not deterred. 
The pension fund has doubled in eight years on the strength of the market, Mr. McCall said. "I know that American business will continue to be a strong and profitable investment for many years to come." Indeed, he said, the pension fund plans to invest an additional $750 million in stocks by the end of the week.
Among the money managers looking for bargains in yesterday's market was Martin J. Whitman, who at 77 has seen markets in turmoil. Mr. Whitman, who manages about $4 billion for public and private clients, was candid about his plans.
"Our investment management team will try to take advantage of securities market panics, if any, when the equity and debt markets reopen," he wrote.
Before the market opened, Mr. Whitman had huddled with his research analysts to produce a potential shopping list of 31 companies, most of them based in the United States, that could be bought if their prices fell to bargain levels.
More than two hours after the opening bell rang at the Big Board, the New York Mercantile Exchange, where oil and other commodities are traded, kicked to life. Situated on the edge of the Hudson River -- on the other side of the smoking rubble, relative to the stock exchange -- the Nymex building is the only one within the cordon of the disaster site that is open for business. 
In the bright morning before work began, dozens of brightly jacketed Nymex traders, smiling sadly, hugged each other in front of their building and then looked east. A curtain of smoke wafted in the breeze where the towers had stood. The day was this bright, many said, when they saw a jet plane bank at the Statue of Liberty and head for the World Trade Center. It was this clear, they continued, when they saw people falling out of the skyscrapers.
"I'm sick inside," said Joey Cardinale, who works on the Nymex floor. "I cried when the ferry pulled up. But we have to show them that we're going to go on. As much as I don't want to be here, we have to show those lowlifes who did this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers found checkpoints around Wall Street as they returned to their jobs yesterday. They were required to produce identification to enter the area and packages were inspected. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. C3); Workers arriving in the Wall Street area yesterday. Many stock traders said the important thing was to resume business, regardless of the direction of share prices. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "World Markets"The Dow industrials fell 7.1 percent, but many other markets have done worse since the World Trade Center attack. Change since last close before attack BRITAIN FTSE: 100 (-2.7%)JAPAN NIKKEI: 225 (-7.7%)GERMANY DAX: 30 (-9.3%)BRAZIL BOVESPA (-11.6%)U.S. DOW IND. (-7.1%) (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets World Markets)(pg. C1) Chart: "Heavy Losses, Some Gains"Many large companies fell sharply yesterday, including those with stakes in tourism or air travel, or dependent on consumer spending. But Raytheon, a military contractor, soared and some companies in recession-resistant businesses advanced. DECLINERSContinental Airlines: -49.4%Walt Disney: -18.4%Boeing: -17.6%American Express: -13.6%General Electric: -10.7%Home Depot: -10.7%Intel: -9.5% GAINERSMerck: +1.6%Philip Morris: +1.6%Raytheon: +26.8% (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); TERRORISM (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); RELOCATIONS (61%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); FERRIES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (72%) NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; LEHMAN BROTHERS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%) SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) ;GRASSO, RICHARD; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; HENRIQUES, DIANA B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); JERSEY CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



501 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Middle East: Iraq: Kurds' Fuel Supplies Cut 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Iraq has cut supplies of diesel fuel to the Kurdish-held north of the country, stopping an illicit trade between Kurdish groups and truckers from neighboring Turkey. Iraq sometimes cuts the flow of fuel from government-run refineries near the Kirkuk oil fields at times of increased tension with either the United States or the United Nations. Turkey allows diesel from Iraq through its Habur border crossing, an illegal but lucrative trade that is a technical violation of a United Nations embargo but condoned by Turkey's Western allies who use an airbase in southern Turkey to patrol northern Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (83%) DIESEL POWER; KURDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) IRAQ; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



502 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AIRLINES; 
A Spartan New Set of Standards For Airlines and Most Passengers

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN and LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
As airline stocks plunged and the airline industry worked feverishly behind the scenes yesterday to secure a financial rescue package from Washington, executives and industry consultants agreed that no matter what happened next, air travel had changed for at least the near term.
 The economic and psychological shock of last week's attacks, experts say, is likely to result in fewer airlines, fewer amenities for economy travelers, lighter schedules and more hours spent at airports because of tighter security measures or waiting for connecting flights. 
 But a dwindling number of passengers could also lead to dirt-cheap fares, more amenities for business- and first-class travelers, fewer air traffic delays and an elaborate courting of frequent fliers. 
"I don't think we will see any short-term recovery, or perhaps any recovery in ease of use in airline travel," said Peter Walsh, who runs the airline industry practice of Mercer Management Consulting. 
Much of the future shape of the industry will depend on when and how many passengers return to the skies. Wall Street analysts predicted yesterday that bookings might remain depressed for a year or more, but they acknowledged that they were just guessing -- there having been no precedent for last week's events. In any case, airlines are likely to be offering bargains to fill their seats. 
The share prices of airline companies plunged as much as 65 percent yesterday on the first day of trading since last Tuesday's hijackings. Continental Airlines dropped by almost half, down $19.59, to close at $20.05. The US Airways Group fell $5.57, to $6.05. America West plunged 65 percent, the shares closing at $3, down $5.60. Among the biggest carriers, AMR, parent of American Airlines, fell $11.70, to $18. United Airlines' parent, UAL, lost $13.32, to $17.50. 
For travelers, the most immediate change will be longer delays before flights as bags are searched with a new sense of urgency. Airlines are also advising travelers to refrain from packing sharp objects, including toiletry items like tweezers, scissors and nail clippers. And luggage that has been checked for a connecting flight on another carrier will have to be rechecked. 
Marie Magliano, owner of Uniglobe at Best Travel, which has a Manhattan office, said her agency was mailing hourly travel security updates to clients.
Fliers can still use electronic tickets, said Edward Adams, chief executive of Navigant International, one of the largest travel agencies. But to clear security checks, they must have either e-tickets specifically for that day or itineraries generated by a travel agent. If they have neither, they must go to a ticket counter.
Those restrictions are bound to affect online travel companies, which are big issuers of e-tickets. Indeed, Mr. Adams said that with air travelers wary, some might prefer having a ticket agent to talk to rather than booking flights online. 
Even before the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the airlines were having a bad year. The soft economy had reduced business travel, while fuel and labor costs rose.
Yesterday, saying the aviation system was "in jeopardy," US Airways said it was cutting its flights by 23 percent, joining other major carriers, which have announced 20 percent reductions. US Airways also said it would lay off 11,000 workers, or nearly a quarter of its staff. 
Over the weekend, Continental Airlines said it was laying off more than 20 percent of its work force, or 12,000 people. 
Yesterday, Continental announced that it would defer a $70 million payment due on debt securities used to finance aircraft purchases. It said the move did not constitute a default at this point. Delta said it had completed raising $1.25 billion through the sale of similar securities. 
America West said it would reduce its flight schedule by roughly 20 percent and eliminate about 2,000 jobs. Last week, it said it would discontinue food service on all flights.
In another sort of cost-cutting move, Jonathan Ornstein, chief executive of the Mesa Air Group, and Michael Lotz, its president, agreed to reduce their salaries by half. And pilots at AirTran Airways agreed to a temporary pay cut to avoid layoffs.
President Bush met with top economic advisers yesterday to discuss financial aid for the industry, his press secretary, Ari Fleischer, said. White House officials plan to talk with airline executives today about legislation that might be proposed to Congress later in the week. 
The Bush administration made one move yesterday to ease the industry's troubles, lifting a ban on airlines' carrying mail and cargo in the bellies of their passenger jets. The restriction, announced only last week, threatened to cost the industry $14 billion a year, experts said. 
Lawmakers from both parties met with airline lobbyists to try to determine the best form of help. An airline executive who refused to be identified predicted that the industry would need $24 billion in direct grants to sustain it over the next few months. Another said $2.5 billion in grants and $12.5 billion in loan guarantees would be enough for a start. 
No matter what happens, many analysts seemed convinced that the industry must consolidate around fewer airlines -- something they said had been necessary even before last Tuesday's attacks because profit margins were so thin. 
By winnowing their schedules, airlines will presumably reduce the number of flights each day between specific destinations. Frequent service had been seen as necessary to win the loyalty of business travelers, who were able to catch an earlier or a later flight home. With fewer flights each day, the airlines would find it less expensive to fly larger planes, which cost less to operate per seat. That, in turn, would reduce air traffic congestion. 
The added security measures, experts said, might prevent Southwest Airlines from maintaining its standard of turning around its planes at the gate in as little as 20 minutes. But Southwest said it operated 98 percent of its flights yesterday and nearly all were on time. At some airports, there were few travelers. Yesterday morning, just eight people waited at La Guardia Airport in New York for the US Airways shuttle to Boston. 
An airline executive said that carriers might be forced to adopt the kind of no-frills approach that Southwest had made successful, adding, "This is all about cash." 
Mr. Walsh, the consultant, said that it would require more than increased security to overcome the fear generated by the terrorist attacks and that the big airlines must woo back their best customers in personal ways. "Very few business passengers personalize their fear," he said. "This has come home to roost in a way that has never happened before. The days of 'Dear frequent flier, it is safe to fly' are over. It is going to have to be: 'Please contact Sophie. She will take care of your specific needs.' "
Mr. Walsh also said airlines might have to convince celebrities like John F. Welch Jr., the retired G.E. chairman, and Michael Jordan to fly on their planes to give others some comfort. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (96%); AIRPORTS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TERRORISM (71%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; PILOTS 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); OLIVER WYMAN GROUP (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ;US AIRWAYS; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES; AMERICA WEST AIRLINES; MESA AIR GROUP INC; AIRTRAN AIRWAYS INC 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: ;ORNSTEIN, JONATHAN; LOTZ, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; HOLSON, LAURA M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



503 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Thailand: Steady Growth 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 The Thai economy was healthier than expected in the second quarter, government figures showed, but exports fell sharply and analysts warned that last week's terror attacks in the United States spelled further gloom ahead. Thailand's gross domestic product grew 1.9 percent from the year-earlier quarter, about even with the 1.8 percent year-over-year growth in the first quarter. The figure was higher than the 1.5 percent that analysts had expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); TRENDS (87%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); TERRORISM (85%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (85%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

GEOGRAPHIC: THAILAND (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%) THAILAND

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



504 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
PIERSON, JOHN H.G.

 BODY:
 PIERSON-John H.G., 95, September 15 at home in Lenox, MA. He leaves his beloved wife, the former Harriet-Anne Duell. Born in New York City, son of Charles Wheeler and Elizabeth Groesbeck Pierson. 
Yale College, 1927. Economist U.S. Government, helped author Employment Act of 1946, which he later strove to strengthen. Worked for U.N., in New York, Asia. In 1960's, planted first of 18,000 trees on Syros, described in his book "Island in Greece." Wrote on modern forms of mysticism-Japanese Zen, Indian Vedanta-as influenced Europe, America. Clubs included Century. Also leaves daughter Elizabeth Pierson Friend of Villanova, PA, son John T.R. Pierson of Cambridge, MA, stepson Robert M. Wood of Escondido, CA, six grandchildren, one great-grandchild. Predeceased by two earlier wives, Gertrude Trumbull Robinson and Sherleigh Elizabeth Glad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); WRITERS (71%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: PIERSON, JOHN H.G. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (76%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



505 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: AFGHAN-AMERICANS; 
Group Struggling to Shed Association With Terrorism

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES and PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN 

DATELINE: FREMONT, Calif., Sept. 15 

 BODY:
Aziz Omar and his family began fleeing Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, when the Soviets invaded in 1979, eventually settling in this modest suburb about 45 miles southeast of San Francisco. They found themselves among other middle-class, politically moderate refugees who were re-establishing themselves in what has become the largest Afghan enclave in the United States.
 Fremont is home to about 10,000 of the Bay Area's 30,000 Afghan immigrants, said Rona Popal, executive director of the Afghan Coalition, a local community group. It boasts a stretch of Afghan mom-and-pop businesses on Fremont Boulevard known as Little Kabul, an Afghan newspaper and a growing number of Afghan social organizations. And while the community has remained largely invisible in the Bay area, Little Kabul notwithstanding, Mr. Omar says that is about to change. 
 Mr. Omar, who runs the De Afghanan Fine Kabob and Tandoori House, and his brother, Wais, a manager at a Silicon Valley electronics company, plan to distribute posters that show an X across the face of Osama bin Laden, who is the prime suspect in Tuesday's attacks. The posters also carry a strongly worded message: "The Afghan Community wants Mr. bin Laden out of their country and will not take the blame for Terrorism." 
The brothers want the world to know that Afghans here resent the Taliban, the fundamentalist Islamic group that controls 90 percent of Afghanistan, as much as they resented the communists before them. 
The reality is more complex. Afghans in Fremont say that the vast majority of their community despises Mr. bin Laden and the Taliban, and resent that their depressed, rundown country has become synonymous with both. There is wide agreement that Mr. bin Laden, who was born in Saudi Arabia, is a foreign invader foisted upon Afghanistan. 
But there are other Afghans, especially outside Fremont, who come from poorer, rural regions of Afghanistan and settle here in the poorer communities of Pittsburg, Concord and Hayward. They support the Taliban despite its harboring of Mr. bin Laden, said David Yaar, a professor of economics at California State University-Hayward. 
Support for the fundamentalist group is largely political, not financial, said Professor Yaar, who counts himself among the supporters and who escorted the Taliban's ambassador-at-large around the Bay area last year. He is the head of the Council of Cooperation of Afghan Immigrants, a political organization, based in Hayward, whose members have been largely pro-Taliban.
The support, Professor Yaar said, is based on the belief that the Taliban has restored order to a country from which five million people fled during the Soviet invasion and the subsequent civil war. 
When the country was in chaos, with no roads, no electricity and no economy, he said, "I and others thought they were a shimmer of hope to get the country pulled together." 
Dr. Yaar has a radio program on a station in Orange, Calif., where pro-Taliban views are expressed. But after the events of the past week many Taliban supporters, including Professor Yaar, are re-examining those views. "If it's proven that bin Laden is behind the events," Professor Yaar said, "I will review my position." 
In Fremont, women who wear traditional Islamic chadors are refusing to step outside and young people are peeling off bumper stickers that say "Allah." The lines for bread at the Maiwand Market, children crowding the streets on bicycles and scooters, and teenagers congregating on street corners were all absent over the weekend. Many stores were closed and those that stayed open made sure they displayed American flags, even if they were photocopies of flags printed in newspapers. 
Deana Haya, 25, a graduate of Wellesley College,was trembling after her mother asked that she remove a Muslim prayer sticker from her car's windshield. Ms. Haya was born in Afghanistan but has lived here since she was seven. She said she has traveled the world by herself but suddenly is afraid at home. "I've never felt as afraid in those cities as I feel right now in my own city in broad daylight." 
There are stories: of three young women who removed their Islamic head scarves; of a car defaced with keys; of a 13-year-old student who was called "camel jockey" and "terrorist" by schoolmates who hurled a rock at her in the schoolyard (and whose mother did not report the incident, fearing more trouble). 
Asia Miskeenyar worked with the group Doctors Without Borders in Kabul before arriving here last December with her four sons, ages 9 to 23. "When I came here I felt like I was alive," she said. "Now, the flashbacks and fear have come back." 
Last Friday night, about 300 people showed up at the Abubakr Sadiq Islamic Center in Hayward, the largest mosque in the area, to pray and to condemn terrorism. "In our culture, we fight our enemies directly, " said Arshad Ershad, 39, an Afghan-American who received a doctorate in comparative religion in Cairo. "We don't kill innocent people." 
The fear of attack is coupled with the fear that the United States will bomb Afghanistan, where more than a million residents are near starvation and many depend on relatives abroad for help. 
Among all their other worries, the anti-Taliban Afghans are mourning the assassination of the opposition leader, Ahmad Shah Masood, who was assassinated by a suicide bomber last week.
Mr. Omar said that he and others were planning a memorial service for Mr. Masood, after other memorials for the victims of the suicide attacks. "There is," he said, "much grief to go around."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aziz Omar, owner of an Afghan restaurant in Fremont, Calif., opposes the supporters of Osama bin Laden. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TALIBAN (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REFUGEES (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (86%); RELIGION (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HIJACKING (71%); ELECTRONICS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ISLAM; HATE CRIMES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; AFGHAN-AMERICANS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%) BIN LADEN, OSAMA; NIEVES, EVELYN; BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); FREMONT (CALIF); AFGHANISTAN; CALIFORNIA; SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



506 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Catholic Leader in Northern Ireland Resigns Party Post 

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
John Hume, a leader of the Catholic civil rights movement in Northern Ireland for the last 40 years and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, announced today in Belfast that he was stepping down as head of the province's Social Democratic and Labor Party.
 Mr. Hume, 64, said the timing of his resignation was dictated by his deteriorating health, which has resulted in several extended stays in the hospital. But he noted in his remarks that this week was one in which the fragile Northern Ireland peace process faced yet another deadline and also one in which the world had seen "the terrible effect" of terrorism. 
 "Could I say directly, given the current international atmosphere, could I say directly to Sinn Fein, please do all that you have to do now and all that you can actually do to insure the agreement is fully implemented by taking all necessary actions to insure that all weapons are put completely beyond use." 
Mr. Hume's reference was to the continuing refusal of the Irish Republican Army, which Sinn Fein represents politically, to begin disarming. The I.R.A. inaction has blocked progress on putting the peace agreement fully into effect and has presented the British government with an unwanted deadline of midnight Saturday for suspending the Northern Ireland government and putting the province back under direct rule from London.
Mr. Hume will stay in office until his party's annual conference in November, lessening the impact of the departure from active involvement in the struggle to bring lasting peace to Northern Ireland of the man thought of as the principal architect of the process that has brought the province this far. 
The 1998 agreement that set up the power-sharing Northern Ireland Assembly was a settlement between the pro-British Protestant majority and the pro-Irish Catholic minority to apportion authority among them and end more than three decades of sectarian violence that claimed more than 3,600 lives.
Mr. Hume is an admirer of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his principles of nonviolence and used to counsel people not to retaliate for killings and bombings with a comment he attributed to the American civil rights leader: "an eye for an eye leaves everyone blind."
He was credited with jump-starting the peace talks that led to the accord by easing the way for the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, to gain participation in the negotiations. At a time when I.R.A. terror tactics made Mr. Adams a pariah in Britain, Mr. Hume held secret talks with him that helped persuade the republican movement he headed that it could give up violence and successfully pursue its goal of union with Ireland through politics.
Rumpled, tousle-haired and witty, Mr. Hume was frequently the quiet and articulate spokesman for reason in a debate dominated by combative accusations and finger pointing. Standing outside the Stormont Castle Buildings one evening in 1998 after enduring weeks of exhausting negotiations, he said, "If you took the words 'no' and 'not' out of the English language, they'd have nothing to talk about in there." 
The I.R.A. and counterpart Protestant paramilitary groups have maintained cease-fires for more than four years while the province's Catholic and Protestant politicians have been negotiating the vexing final arrangements for disarmament, the reduction of British troops and military installations in Northern Ireland and the creation of a new police force to replace the predominantly Protestant Royal Ulster Constabulary.
In the parlance of Northern Ireland's politics, Mr. Hume and his party were known as nationalists -- people who sought the merger of North and South through constitutional means rather than through the violent means long espoused by republicans. Protestants are referred to as unionists, because of their desire to keep Ulster as part of the United Kingdom.
So successful has Sinn Fein become, however, that in the British election in June, it amassed more votes than Mr. Hume's party and became the largest nationalist party in Northern Ireland. Though Mr. Hume's likely successor is Seamus Mallon, 65, his deputy and the deputy leader of the Assembly, Mr. Hume's resignation may open the way for the eventual rise of younger members at a time when Sinn Fein is perceived to be the more vigorous representative of Irish nationalism.
Mr. Hume said he planned to keep his seats in the European Parliament and the British Parliament, where he represents the district of Foyle, which comprises the city of Londonderry. He also said he would continue to work to promote the economy of Northern Ireland, where he has had particular success in attracting American investment. 
He became leader of his party in 1979, the same year he entered the European Parliament. In 1983 he gained his seat in the British Parliament, and in 1998 was co-winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, along with David Trimble, leader of the province's largest Protestant party, the Ulster Unionists.
Mr. Hume is the second party leader to step down during the current stall in talks. Sean Neeson resigned his post as head of the cross-community Alliance Party two weeks ago.
In the absence of any move by the I.R.A. to disarm, Northern Ireland Secretary John Reid has until Sunday to either suspend the power-sharing government for a period of formal review or call new Assembly elections. Britain is reluctant to have a new vote because of the likelihood that the increasingly disenchanted Protestants will elect people opposed to power sharing who would bring the government down from within.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Hume in the Stormont Castle Buildings after announcing his resignation as leader of the Social Democratic Labor Party of Northern Ireland. He cited his worsening health as his reason for stepping down. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); BOMBINGS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: SINN FEIN (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (82%) SINN FEIN; IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) HOGE, WARREN; HUME, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) NORTHERN IRELAND; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



507 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: A Rift Over Rio Grande Water Rights 

BYLINE:  By ROSS E. MILLOY 

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Tex. 

 BODY:
After one of the driest summers on record along the border here in South Texas, tensions are growing between local farmers and Mexico over water rights to the Rio Grande.
 Mexico has warned that not only will it fail to meet a Sept. 30 deadline to release millions of gallons of water it is required by treaty to provide farmers for irrigation but also that it needs to hold back even more water because of the prolonged drought. 
 Farmers in South Texas are outraged, pointing out that it would be the second time Mexico has breached an agreement negotiated in March between the Bush administration and President Vicente Fox of Mexico.
"We are upset, angry and scared," said Gordon Hill, general manager of the Bayview Irrigation District. "We've got farmers going out of business because Mexico has broken its promises on releasing water. That water is our lifeline, and they're shutting it off." 
Mexico says it needs the water for its border towns and cities. But South Texas water officials say Mexico is hoarding the water for its own farmers' crops next year, giving them a competitive advantage over their American counterparts just over the border.
President Bush and President Fox discussed the water debt in their meetings in Washington this month, but little is yet known about the results. A joint statement issued on Sept. 6 said only that the two leaders "had a frank discussion about water resources and the importance of living up to our mutual treaty obligations in this regard."
Under a treaty signed by the two countries in 1944, Mexico agreed to send the United States one-third of the runoff from six tributaries to the Rio Grande, or at least 350,000 acre-feet per year (an acre-foot is about 326,000 gallons). For its part, the United State was to provide 1.5 million acre-feet of Colorado River water to Mexico. Because a long drought has reduced some reservoirs to less than 12 percent of capacity, Mexican officials say, they have been in arrears on their water payments since 1992.
In the latest round, Mexico first said it could not release almost 300,000 acre-feet of of its total water debt of about 1.4 million acre-feet by Sept. 30, and then said it would seek a loan of water from the United States to supply their own border communities.
Alberto Szekely, an adviser to Mexico's foreign ministry on the issue, said that when the water repayment agreements were reached last March, negotiators developed a timetable based upon estimated projected rainfall. One plan paid the debt down by July 31 and a fallback plan repaid the water by Sept. 30. Neither happened. Instead, Mr. Szekely said, "something a lot worse happened, and that is no water."
Although Mexico began honoring the agreement, sending about 300,000 acre-feet of water downstream from March to June, northern Mexico has received only half of the rainfall projected in the negotiators' worst-case scenario, and Mexican reservoirs are now at an all-time low, Mr. Szekely said.
"This has forced us to advise the United States that we will have to request a water loan," he said. 
Sally Spener, a spokeswoman for the United States section of the International Boundary and Water Commission, said the Mexican request would "be considered with the Texas state government and with the best interests of Texas water needs in mind."
But even before hearing that Mexico would seek a loan, South Texas farmers and water managers were saying that, even as they refused to release sufficient water downstream for Texas agricultural operations, Mexico was stockpiling water to build up its own agricultural export industry.
Of Mexico's request for a water loan, Gordon Hill, general manager of the Bayview Irrigation District, said, "It will be a cold day in hell when that happens." 
Mr. Hill, whose grandfather helped create the system of 28 local irrigating districts that built a four-county area in the Rio Grande Valley into a major Texas agricultural center, said local agricultural jobs and facilities were moving across the border because Mexico was exploiting water owed to the United States for use by its own farmers.
Large corporations have shifted some of their operations from the Valley into the Mexican state of Chihuahua, which holds about 80 percent of Mexico's water storage capacity along the Rio Grande, Mr. Hill said.
"They're using our own water against us," he said.
Thousands of South Texas agricultural jobs depend upon water pumped from the Rio Grande. Since 1992, Mexico's shortfalls on its water debts may have cost Texas farmers as much as $3 billion, Texas economic development officials say. In that same period, Mexican produce exports along the border increased by one billion pounds.
Javier Mendoza, a spokesman for the National Water Commission in Mexico City, which oversees federal control of water in Mexico, said that while there was some water in the northern reservoirs, it was being held back for human consumption. But records of the International Boundary and Water Commission, an agency monitoring compliance with the treaty, show that Mexico has sent over 100,000 acre-feet to Mexican farmers and added 263,480 acre-feet of water to Mexican reservoirs this summer, even as it missed a July 31 deadline to release 600,000 acre-feet of water to the United States.
The water in question collects in the watershed of tributaries that eventually flow into the Rio Grande. As supplies build, the water is released downstream to serve users with predetermined rights to specific quantities.
"It operates like a bank, with the users making deposits of certain amounts through their water rights, and then 'writing checks' when they need to draw down water," Mr. Hill said. "If the bank runs out, everybody's out of business."
Monitors at the international water commission think at least some water is available.
"We've seen an increase in the Mexican reservoir supplies this summer," Ms. Spener said. "The water is there in their reservoirs, and we've been pressing them to release it."
Mary Kelly, director of the Texas Center for Policy Studies, a nonprofit group that studies border water issues, said the water currently in Mexico's northern reservoirs, most of it in the Rio Conchos valley, was too far from the Rio Grande to efficiently help Texas.
Mr. Mendoza agreed, saying that 50 percent of the water volume could be lost in transit, even if it were available.
"We're just going to have to negotiate a new agreement with a new timetable to pay down the debt," Mr. Mendoza said.
But the situation is particularly critical right now, Mr. Hill said, because the March agreement reassured local farmers that there would be enough water for a full growing season and they planted more vegetables and sugar cane than usual. With that water now in doubt, local farmers are desperate, Mr. Hill said.
"If you can't get more, you're in trouble," he said. "We can't finish out our crop year and we're now looking at big losses."
Beneath a blazing sun and surrounded by his parched citrus groves, Reuben Banda bemoaned the recent news that Mexico is unable to send more water down the Rio Grande to the irrigation canals that nourish his orange and grapefruit trees.
"That will just about do me in," he said. "Without more water soon, these trees won't make it."
At least some here believe that even if Mr. Fox wanted to release the water, a power struggle between two Mexican political parties and opposition from local Mexican farmers could prevent him from doing so.
"We think that President Fox is being held hostage over this issue by the governor," said Frank White, general manager of the Hidalgo and Cameron County Irrigation District, who said the overdue water served the interests of Chihuahua by providing jobs and export income. 
Chihuahua's governor, C. P. Patricio Martinez, is a member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, while President Fox belongs to the rival National Action Party. But Governor Martinez denies any ulterior motives for not sending the water. 
"Chihuahua can't send any water because Chihuahua doesn't have any water to send," he said, adding, "I may have different opinions on some issues with President Fox, but we are not fighting over water."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gordon Hill, an irrigation manager in Bayview, Tex., said a lack of water had caused undersize grapefruit. (Brad Doherty for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER RIGHTS (92%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); IRRIGATION (90%); DROUGHT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (61%); WATER QUALITY (50%) AGRICULTURE; WATER; DROUGHT; IRRIGATION; FARMERS; TREATIES 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) MILLOY, ROSS E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) TEXAS; MEXICO; RIO GRANDE RIVER; COLORADO RIVER

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



508 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Sees Sales Off 15% In Key Software Category 

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
The Oracle Corporation, the maker of business software, said today that the threat of war could drive sales of its software licenses down 15 percent, a sharper decline than the company had expected before the terrorist attacks last week.
 Despite the downturn, Oracle, based in Redwood City, Calif., predicted that it would cut costs and improve renewals of software contracts to match its earnings from the period last year, when it made a profit of 11 cents a share. 
 Lawrence J. Ellison, the chief executive, told Wall Street that he had been prepared to predict that sales of new software licenses would drop 8 to 10 percent from the period a year earlier. After plunging sharply two quarters ago, he said, business had seemed to stabilize. 
"Had there not been the events in New York, we would have come to you last week and said we expect this quarter to be the same as the last two quarters," Mr. Ellison said.
But with the attacks threatening to harm the economy, the company said today that new-license revenues this quarter may decline more sharply than expected, as much as 15 percent from last year. The company said it expected an increase in sales to the federal government and law enforcement agencies, but a drop in sales to other customers.
"What impact it's going to have on the economy is very difficult to predict," Jeff Henley, the chief financial officer, said in an interview, referring to the attacks. "We're still digesting what's going on out there."
Shares of Oracle fell 45 cents, or 4 percent, to close at $11.01 ahead of the earnings call, amid a broad sell-off. The stock outperformed the Nasdaq, which lost nearly 7 percent. Oracle shares rose to $11.10 in after- hours trading.
The Oracle executives commented on the financial results of their fiscal first quarter, which ended Aug. 31, for the first time since releasing them with no explanation last Thursday. The company earned $511 million, or 9 cents a share, beating analysts' expectations and its own performance during the 2000 period a year before by a penny, but postponed discussion of those results in deference to the losses suffered by the financial community.
New software licenses declined 8 percent last quarter, but software license renewals and product support services improved 9 percent.
An Oracle sales manager was killed aboard the United Airlines flight that crashed into the Pentagon, and seven employees are missing in the rubble of the World Trade Center. Mr. Ellison began a conference call with analysts today by extending his condolences. "It's been a bad week for all of us," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); AIRLINES (60%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SALES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (98%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ;ORACLE CORP 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (89%) ;GAITHER, CHRIS; ELLISON, LAWRENCE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



509 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Returns 

 BODY:
If any further evidence were needed that America has entered a strange new era, it was the fact that many stock market experts felt it was reasonably good news when the Dow Jones industrial average dropped only 685 points yesterday.
 There had been fears that when Wall Street returned to life for the first time since the destruction of the World Trade Center towers, a panicky sell-off might send the market into free fall. That did not happen. The market's relatively restrained reaction reflects a heartening belief that the terrorist attack has done no irreparable harm to the economy or its foundations. 
 Cuts in interest rates and guarantees of liquidity by the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank cushioned the markets, and last week's four-day cooling-off period while the markets remained closed had helped calm jittery nerves. The Dow Jones industrial average suffered its biggest loss ever in points, but its percentage loss fell far short of the crash in October 1987. Rather, it roughly paralleled last Tuesday's less-than-crippling declines in foreign markets. And broader market indexes here did not drop as much, reflecting gains by smaller companies from newly ascendant industries such as security, video conferencing and home entertainment.
Bellicose rhetoric from George W. Bush yesterday did nothing to calm the market's jitters. The president certainly should not take the stock market into consideration when making critical foreign policy decisions. But cowboy-style rhetoric like his "wanted dead or alive" remark does not add anything to the war against terrorism, and it can have a negative effect on an already nervous American public.
People are also understandably concerned that last week's terror attacks may have pushed the nation into the recession it has barely avoided in recent months. Several industries, notably airlines, tourism and insurance, have come under special pressure this week. Congress appears to be moving quickly toward some sort of aid to the airlines, as well as a wider economic stimulus package that would be a combination of spending and tax cuts.
From a broader perspective, last week's crisis will have a mixed impact. Lower interest rates and $40 billion for disaster recovery and anti-terrorism programs from the federal government, with the promise of significantly more on the way, could spur economic activity. Boosting spending, when the funds go where they are most needed, is usually more stimulating for the economy than cutting taxes. Last, though there is no positive side to the possibility of war, the call-ups of at least 35,500 National Guard troops will necessitate new hires in the private sector, defraying unemployment.
On the negative side, a sizable chunk of yearly output has disappeared. Lost lives and disruptions to the workplaces of the survivors could subtract as much from the economy as Washington has pledged to add. Energy prices have remained fairly stable so far, but an upturn could have a dampening effect on recovery.
More telling than these immediate issues, however, will be how confidence in the economy evolves over the long term. The first indications of doubt came when bond markets opened last Thursday. Investors snapped up Treasuries with short- and medium-length maturities -- the safest securities in the world. The 30-year bond, a bellwether for the more distant future, suffered some early selling. But here investors may have been responding to the government's fiscal outlook, weakened by the obvious necessity of dipping into Social Security funds meant for debt reduction.
Consumers and businesses will also emerge from last week's tragedies with some uncertainty. To battle it, Americans need most of all to stay calm. The nation is still due for a cyclical recovery. Moreover, this country's best moments often come at the times of great challenge. The solidarity and determination the nation develops in the weeks ahead could create a better America and an even stronger economy in the years to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HIJACKING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); EMPLOYMENT (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDITORIALS; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



510 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: MARKET PLACE; 
Bad Numbers Still Felt Good On a Day Unlike Any Other

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Never before has a day in which the stock market tumbled so far seemed like a good day. But yesterday was a day unlike any other. The losses were smaller than many had expected, and they reflected a surge of buying by ordinary Americans, who were evidently convinced that it was patriotic to be bullish.
 That the market did as well as it did was testament that the pleas to Americans to buy stock as a patriotic, antiterrorist gesture had borne fruit. In the morning, it appears there was a wave of such orders, which helped sustain prices. 
 That buying faded, though, and in the afternoon it appeared that individual investors sold about as many shares as they bought.
The high point of the recovery, whether by coincidence or not, came a few minutes before the first report that President Bush wanted to capture Osama bin Laden, dead or alive. If nothing else, that provided a sobering reminder of the possibility that more rounds of violence may lie ahead.
A big question, of course, is whether the American market can remain relatively strong. That may depend on whether economic worries become stronger than the patriotic impulses to buy. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the best representative of the substantial companies that make up the economic might of the United States, finished the day down almost 5 percent, at its lowest level in nearly three years.
On any other day, that would be a horrendous performance. But this day was unlike others in so many ways. The American market has done better since the planes struck the World Trade Center than any other major stock market in the world, except Britain's.
The Nasdaq composite and the Dow Jones industrial average did not do as well as the S.& P., for divergent reasons. The Dow has a number of companies that were hard hit by the news, like United Technologies and Boeing, which will be hurt by a fall in commercial jet orders, and Disney, which is heavily dependent on tourism. As for the Nasdaq, some of its big technology companies also performed poorly, perhaps reflecting that they still trade at substantial profit multiples that reflect a time when growth seemed limitless. That time was little more than a year ago, but in the current atmosphere its return seems unlikely.
Still, both the Dow and the Nasdaq fell about 7 percent, which is better than all but a few world markets have done since the attack.
One milestone that was reached, which got far less attention than it would have on any other day, was that the Dow became the last major American index to fall more than 20 percent from its peak. That is a traditional indication of a bear market, but by now no one needs statistical proof that a bear is loose in nearly all the financial markets of the world.
Those who hope for a bottom in the market, however, may take hope from the fact that the last two bear markets -- in 1987 and 1990 -- hit bottom on the very day the Dow first closed more than 20 percent below its peak. And the 1990 low came amid recession and fears of a bloody war, that one against Iraq.
For many on Wall Street, the market's performance was almost a secondary consideration. Simply resuming trading, with some firms using improvised trading systems and with many financial industry employees back in lower Manhattan for the first time since Tuesday, was to be celebrated.
The people doing the trading felt the range of emotions. It was comforting to be back at work, doing what they were used to doing, and away from television sets. But there was also something unsettling about trying to make money at a time when so many friends and colleagues were dead. It was not, could not be, a normal day.
When things do become more normal, when people like H. Carl McCall, the New York State comptroller, are not issuing news releases proclaiming that they are buying stocks, it is possible that share prices will come under more pressure. As it is, a look at world stock markets would make it appear that the United States economy is likely to be among the least affected by this crisis, a thesis that seems unlikely.
American economic statistics that have come out since the attack have gotten little attention, but they have been depressing. There were hopes that the economy had hit bottom, but a new surge in unemployment claims, another fall in industrial production and a drop in consumer confidence -- all predating the attack but reported after it -- indicated that those hopes were being dashed.
There is a good chance that a recession began well before the World Trade Center was struck, and it is hard to imagine that it will not be deeper now. But perhaps it will be shorter, as the willingness of the government to spend money -- without the arguments about a Social Security lockbox -- provides a needed economic stimulus.
The Federal Reserve surprised few yesterday morning with an interest rate cut of half a percentage point. But there was some surprise that the European Central Bank quickly followed. Just last Wednesday, Europe's central bank had met and refused to cut rates, with its president, Wim Duisenberg -- a man often criticized for saying just the wrong thing -- stating that a cut "would have inspired a reaction of panic rather than stability." 
This time the central bank, in a wise if excessively dry statement, said that the attack had reduced "the short-term outlook" for European growth, and that a cut was needed. It did not explain why it had been unable to figure out the growth implications of the attack earlier. In any case, European stocks seemed to be helped by the move.
The Canadian and Swiss central banks also cut rates, but there was no move from the Bank of England, though there was speculation it would act in a few days. The British market has fallen the least since the attack, so perhaps the Bank of England has some justification for its reluctance to act. But there had been rumors of a jointly announced move by all major central banks. In a world where international solidarity seems essential, it would have been nice if that rumor had been accurate.
The world's major economies now face a severe burden. For the first time in a quarter-century, it appears likely that the three most important areas -- the United States, Japan and Europe -- may soon be in recession at the same time.
They will emerge, but to do so quickly will require concentrated and perhaps coordinated action by major governments. It may also require that worry not grow too great that the war being proclaimed in Washington will be a long and bloody one.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Dow Industrials in Bear Territory"The 7.1 percent drop in the Dow Jones industrial average yesterday marked the first time since 1990 that it has dropped to a level 20 percent below its peak, a traditional indication of a bear market. The two most recent bear markets, measured from market peaks, ended the day they reached the 20 percent mark. DATE DOWN 20%: YesterdayCLOSE: 8,920.70CHANGE FROM PEAK: -23.9DAYS FROM PEAK: 612DATE BOTTOM REACHED: --VALUE AT BOTTOM: --CHANGE FROM PEAK TO BOTTOM: --DAYS FROM 20% DOWN TO BOTTOM: -- DATE DOWN 20%: Oct. 11, '90CLOSE: 2,365.10CHANGE FROM PEAK: -21.2DAYS FROM PEAK: 87DATE BOTTOM REACHED: Oct. 11, '90VALUE AT BOTTOM: 2,365.10CHANGE FROM PEAK TO BOTTOM: -21.2DAYS FROM 20% DOWN TO BOTTOM: 0 DATE DOWN 20%: Oct. 19, '87CLOSE: 1,738.70CHANGE FROM PEAK: -36.1DAYS FROM PEAK: 55DATE BOTTOM REACHED: Oct. 19, '87VALUE AT BOTTOM: 1,738.70CHANGE FROM PEAK TO BOTTOM: -36.1DAYS FROM 20% DOWN TO BOTTOM: 0 DATE DOWN 20%: Nov. 26, '73CLOSE: 824.95CHANGE FROM PEAK: -21.6DAYS FROM PEAK: 319DATE BOTTOM REACHED: Dec. 6, '74VALUE AT BOTTOM: 577.6CHANGE FROM PEAK TO BOTTOM: -45.1DAYS FROM 20% DOWN TO BOTTOM: 375 DATE DOWN 20%: Aug. 22, '66CLOSE: 792.03CHANGE FROM PEAK: -20.4DAYS FROM PEAK: 194DATE BOTTOM REACHED: May 26, '70VALUE AT BOTTOM: 631.16CHANGE FROM PEAK TO BOTTOM: -36.6DAYS FROM 20% DOWN TO BOTTOM: 1,373 DATE DOWN 20%: May 28, '62CLOSE: 576.93CHANGE FROM PEAK: -21.5DAYS FROM PEAK: 166DATE BOTTOM REACHED: June 26, '62VALUE AT BOTTOM: 535.76CHANGE FROM PEAK TO BOTTOM: -27.1DAYS FROM 20% DOWN TO BOTTOM: 29 DATE DOWN 20%: Oct. 24, '29CLOSE: 299.5CHANGE FROM PEAK: -21.4DAYS FROM PEAK: 51DATE BOTTOM REACHED: July 8, '32VALUE AT BOTTOM: 41.22CHANGE FROM PEAK TO BOTTOM: -89.2DAYS FROM 20% DOWN TO BOTTOM: 988 DATE DOWN 20%: Feb. 5, '20CLOSE: 95.5CHANGE FROM PEAK: -20.2DAYS FROM PEAK: 94DATE BOTTOM REACHED: Aug. 24, '21VALUE AT BOTTOM: 63.9CHANGE FROM PEAK TO BOTTOM: -46.6DAYS FROM 20% DOWN TO BOTTOM: 566 (Sources: Salomon Smith Barney, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (75%); BONDS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); HIJACKING (69%); MISSING PERSONS (68%); AIRLINES (64%); TOURISM (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (53%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); UTX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ;MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



511 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FEDERAL RESERVE; 
Fed Cuts Rates By Half-Point In an Attempt To Aid Stocks

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point before the stock market reopened today, and promised that it would go to great lengths to keep financial markets operating smoothly in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks.
 The action was not enough to overcome the heavy downdraft in share prices once trading resumed on Wall Street. And there were growing signs that the economy, which was weakening before the assault last Tuesday, could be in for a rough ride in coming months, suggesting that the Fed may continue its rate-cutting campaign for the rest of the year. 
 In their first public statement since the assault on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Alan Greenspan and his colleagues at the Fed issued a news release at 8:20 this morning saying they would continue to pump money into the financial system "until more normal market functioning is restored." 
After observing a moment of silence as it began its meeting at 7:30 this morning, the Fed quickly voted to cut its federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks to 3 percent from 3.5 percent. The Fed also cut its discount rate on loans to banks from the Federal Reserve system to 2.5 percent from 3 percent.
It was the eighth time the Fed had cut rates this year, and the third time this year that it had acted outside of a regularly scheduled meeting. More than three hours later -- after stock prices on Wall Street had begun their sharp decline -- the European Central Bank matched the Fed's rate cut, saying it was acting in coordination with the Fed to limit the worldwide economic damage stemming from the attacks.
Central banks in Canada, Switzerland and Sweden also cut rates.
Economists said the moves sent a strong signal to investors that the central banks would be aggressive in making sure financial markets did not seize up after the attacks.
As welcome a tonic as they were on Wall Street, the rate cuts appeared to do little to persuade sellers not to sell today, or buyers to buy. The final tally in the equity market suggested that managing this particular crisis would be difficult even for Mr. Greenspan, who in 14 years as Fed chairman has successfully dealt with a stock market crash, bank failures and a global financial crisis.
"It would be easy to say that since the market was down so much, then the Fed has failed," said John Lipsky, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. "That would be holding the Fed to an unrealistic standard. It's not my impression that the Fed or the U.S. authorities in general had any illusion that policy actions would stand in the way of a market decline."
Economists have been coming to a consensus in recent days that the aftereffects of the attacks would be sufficient to push the United States into recession, if it was not already in one.
In one sign of the risks to the outlook, US Airways announced that it would lay off as many as 11,000 employees, reflecting the sharp squeeze on the entire airline industry because of the threat of terrorism. Unemployment had already jumped last month to 4.9 percent from 4.5 percent in July, and new claims for unemployment insurance surged in the first week of this month, before the attacks.
The Fed's statement today acknowledged the deterioration in the outlook.
"Even before the tragic events of last week, employment, production and business spending remained weak," the statement said, "and last week's events have the potential to damp spending further."
The Bush administration continued its efforts to bolster confidence among consumers and investors. President Bush said the "underpinnings for growth are there" despite the tough conditions in many industries right now. The Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, said in a series of television interviews that recovery was just around the corner.
"Our economy was beginning to rebound before this event, and we will rebound and we will do well," Mr. O'Neill told CNN.
On Capitol Hill, leaders from both parties considered plans to stimulate the economy through further tax cuts and additional government spending. Mr. Bush said he would consider such a plan. Republicans are pressing for a package that would include a cut in the capital gains tax and tax cuts to benefit businesses.
At the White House, Mr. Bush met with his economic team to discuss measures like providing financial aid to the airline industry.
Since the attack the Fed has made almost unlimited amounts of money available to banks in the form of low-interest overnight loans from its discount window, and it has injected more money into the financial system by purchasing bonds. On Friday it purchased $81.25 billion of bonds in short-term transactions through its open market operations, a record. Today it purchased $57.25 billion worth of bonds.
In its statement, the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said it would continue injecting money into the system through open market operations even if it drove the federal funds rate below its new target of 3 percent.
In a speech nearly three years ago, Mr. Greenspan ruminated about how severe economic problems often had their roots in psychological shock.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the Federal funds target rate from January-September 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (86%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BONDS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); AIRLINES (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; US AIRWAYS 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) ;BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); EUROPE; CANADA; SWITZERLAND; SWEDEN

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



512 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2170 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OVERVIEW; 
WALL ST. REOPENS SIX DAYS AFTER SHUTDOWN; STOCKS SLIDE 7%, BUT INVESTORS RESIST PANIC

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
The stock market survived the first day of trading in six days with significant losses but without a disastrous plunge yesterday. Stock prices plummeted seconds after the opening bell but never succumbed to the frenzied selling that government and business leaders had worked hard to avoid.
 Trading resumed at a fast pace, as the financial community returned still battered by the World Trade Center disaster. Just a few blocks away from the New York Stock Exchange, workers continued to dig remains out of a mountain of rubble. Page C1. 
 Given their first chance to buy and sell stocks, investors pushed crucial market indexes down 7 percent out of concern that world economies, fragile even before the terrorist attack, would weaken further in days ahead. 
Even before the markets opened for trading, the Federal Reserve Board, followed later by other central banks, tried to send a signal that it was acting to shore up the economy. The Fed cut its benchmark Federal Funds rate by half of a percentage point, to 3 percent. The European Central Bank followed, cutting its benchmark rate by half a percentage point, to 3.75 percent. Page C1. 
President Bush, who had spent recent days trying to calm the nation, delivered the message again just before noon. "I understand it's tough right now," Mr. Bush said of the nation's economy.
"But the underpinnings for economic growth are there. We're the greatest entrepreneurial society in the world. We've got the best farmers and ranchers. We've got a strong manufacturing base. But there's a challenge ahead of us, and I'm confident that our business community will rise to the challenge."
In another show of support, corporations pledged to buy significant amounts of their shares, and the big brokerage firms refrained from issuing negative investment opinions on individual companies.
All eyes were riveted on the stock market, a symbol of the country's ability to return to a more normal state after the sudden and devastating violence of last Tuesday.
Nevertheless, by the end of the day, the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen 7.1 percent, or 684.81 points, to its lowest level since December 1998. It was the biggest point loss ever but far from a record in percentage terms.
The Dow is now down 24 percent from its peak in January 2000, well into what is considered bear market territory. The Nasdaq composite index lost 6.8 percent yesterday, piling up a 69 percent loss since its high in March of last year.
Stock prices plunged from the moment trading began. Even as traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange were observing two minutes of silence honoring the attack's victims, prices on the Nasdaq, an electronic market with far-flung participants, went into free fall, shedding almost 6 percent of the composite's value.
Moments later, after Big Board traders finished singing "God Bless America," the selling wave spread to the shares listed on their exchange. Within 45 minutes, the Dow Jones industrials had shed more than 600 points. 
The broad decline in stock prices had been widely expected by institutional and individual investors. Because United States markets had been closed since Sept. 10, investors here had not had a chance to react to the disaster; foreign markets have been open. 
Even though the losses were severe, the overall action was not calamitous. Nor was the selling frenzied. But there was an overriding sense among investors that many players remained on the sidelines yesterday and that the days ahead could prove to be more difficult. 
"We've taken today to rejoin the U.S. markets with the rest of the world," said James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "Four days of information had to be priced in to the market in a day. Now we get away from the crisis and the opening to what the economy looks like. And on that score it's going to be challenging." 
Trading was heavy. A record 2.3 billion shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, up from the previous peak of 2.1 billion registered on Jan. 4. 
Investors dumped shares of airlines, financial services concerns and insurance companies, presumed to be most vulnerable to losses from the terrorist attack.
Companies that rely on consumer spending -- such as retailers -- also declined yesterday. Pockets of strength in the depressed market included military manufacturers, drug stocks and makers of security equipment. 
Most market strategists said the overall performance was good, given the pressure. "If you put it into the framework of a crisis, I think the decline is relatively reasonable," said Henry Kaufman, a prominent Wall Street economist at Kaufman & Company in New York. "There have been other periods in which the daily declines have been much larger, and the circumstances were not as extreme."
Few money managers expect yesterday's decline to be the last of the damage to stock portfolios from the terrorist attacks. "It's still wait and see," said Alan Kral, a portfolio manager at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen in New York. "Despite the fact that the Dow is down 700, the response of the domestic investor has not yet started." 
Workers returned to a Wall Street that resembled a war zone, with broken windows in many buildings and ash inches thick. Alexandra Lebenthal, chief executive of Lebenthal & Company, a brokerage firm specializing in municipal bonds, returned to her office on the 12th floor at 120 Broadway, just two blocks from where the World Trade Center had stood and reminisced about watching the towers go up.
"For all of us who work down there, seeing that jagged structure, that demolition site is a hard reminder of what has happened," she said. "Something else will get built, but we'll always remember the twin towers and what they stood for." 
As people got back to the business of investing, there was a sense of artificial buoyancy up and down Wall Street. Investors were urged to prove their patriotism by buying shares of stock; some trading desks reported little to no short-selling of stocks, a bet on falling prices in which investors borrow shares to sell them, hoping to buy them back later more cheaply. 
Wall Street showed some restraint yesterday in its advice to investors. Even though some brokerage firm strategists reduced their expectations for overall corporate earnings next year, most of the big firms did not lower investment ratings on any individual United States stocks. 
"The scary part is today's market is not a real market," one hedge fund manager said. "The big boys are not playing. People are pulling strings around the place to keep a sense of normalcy. I don't know how long that will last."
Executives at several money management firms said their customers were surprisingly silent yesterday. More than halfway through the trading day, Gerald Perritt, principal of Perritt Capital Management in Chicago, said that of his 300 clients, only one bothered to telephone. "We got one call from a woman who said: 'I'm not panicking. Don't you.' " 
Robert A. Olstein, manager of the Olstein Financial Alert Fund, said he used yesterday's decline as an opportunity to buy stocks that were punished, like insurance companies and providers of financial services. Halfway through the day, Mr. Olstein said his fund was fully invested in stocks and carrying no cash for the first time in three years. One reason he was able to take such an aggressive stance, he said, was that his fund experienced no shareholder selling.
"Our shareholders are reacting like true professionals," Mr. Olstein said. "I have seen no panic as in past crises."
Call volumes and Web traffic at brokerage firms and fund companies spiked yesterday as the market reopened; questions appeared to outnumber trades, however. Twenty-one-thousand calls came to T. Rowe Price, about 6,000 more than average, the company said. The problem was, customers were asking unanswerable questions.
"They want to know what we think is going to happen to the market, what they should be doing with their money, how we think certain funds will fare, should I make changes in my portfolio," said Steve Norwitz, a T. Rowe spokesman. "They want reassurance."
Charles Schwab, the giant brokerage firm, received two to three times the number of telephone calls of a week ago, but a spokesman said the firm could not immediately assess the level of transactions. The Vanguard Group, the nation's second-largest mutual fund company, reported a normal day for transactions but many inquiries from investors monitoring accounts. At Merrill Lynch, call volume was 50 percent higher than normal but transaction volume was typical, the company said in a statement.
These reports indicate that individual investors were not heavy sellers yesterday, giving credence to reports that foreign investors may have played a role in the decline.
The Dow Jones industrials fell 684.81 points, to 8,920.70. The Nasdaq lost 115.83 points, or 6.83 percent, to 1,579.55.
In Japan, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues shrugged off the declines in the United States and was up 4 percent in afternoon trading today. In other markets, Hong Kong was up 2.5 percent and South Korea was up nearly 3 percent.
Anticipating a sharp drop in air travel, investors dumped shares of the US Airways Group, which lost 52 percent of its value; the company said it planned to lay off about 11,000 people and cut out nearly one in four flights. It is the largest carrier at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, now closed, and officials have given no indication when it will reopen. The UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, fell 43.2 percent; and Boeing, the largest maker of commercial aircraft, lost 17.6 percent.
Insurance companies also came under severe pressure. CNA Financial fell 7.9 percent, Metlife lost 6.5 percent and the American International Group declined 4.3 percent. 
Investors fled shares of banks, brokerage firms and financial services firms. Morgan Stanley plunged 13 percent; Merrill Lynch lost 11.5 percent; and Citigroup shed 6.7 percent of its value.
But they flocked to military companies, like Raytheon, which gained 27 percent; Northrop Grumman, which rose 15.7 percent; and General Dynamics, up 9.1 percent.
Drug companies also inched higher; American Home Products and Merck rose 2.7 percent and 1.6 percent, respectively. 
Makers of security gear, many of which are small, lesser-known companies, rocketed.
The dollar declined in value against the euro but it has held up reasonably well since the attack. It rose against the Japanese yen after the Bank of Japan intervened in the market to support the dollar. The threat of further intervention by Japan and other central banks may help the dollar in the weeks ahead.
Against the euro, the dollar was at 92.44 cents, down 0.8 percent; it is down 2.9 percent against the euro since the attack. The dollar rose to 117.73 yen, up from 117.29, but is off 2.7 percent since the attack.
Investors faced with political and economic uncertainty usually take refuge in Treasury securities. But yesterday, even after the Fed cut rates, they were sold. The price of the 10-year note declined, pushing its yield up to 4.62 percent from 4.55 percent Friday. Yields on the two-year note rose to 2.94 percent from 2.86 percent Friday. 
John Lipsky, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Chase, said that it was not a big sell-off. One reason for the modest retreat, he said, was that investors had already driven short-term interest rates to their lowest levels in recent weeks as they anticipated further Fed cuts.
Investors still expect the Fed to cut its benchmark rate a quarter of a percentage point when it meets again on Oct. 2, Mr. Lipsky said. But market rates may already reflect that expected move, which means they may not fall much further in the weeks ahead if there are no other political or economic surprises.
Thomas Sowanick, chief global debt strategist at Merrill Lynch, said that some of the selling might also be coming from investors who are worried that the cumulative effect of the Fed's eight rate cuts this year and the large amount of cash the Fed has pumped into the financial system since the attack will add to inflation pressures when the economy does turn around.
The price of crude oil fell as it was reported that OPEC was ready to increase production to keep the price from rising. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the price of a barrel of crude oil for October delivery fell 72 cents, to $28.81. 
With the first day of trading under their belts, investors began to wonder what the rest of the week would bring. Mr. Kral, the portfolio manager, said: "The market is acting with a great deal of grace. But divining the long-term winners and losers will be very difficult." 
Mr. Paulsen of Wells Capital Management said that his firm, like many large institutional concerns, stood on the sidelines yesterday. But he was heartened by investors' behavior both here and abroad. "Having Europe end 3 percent higher on the day is encouraging," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Trading resumed yesterday, above; Thomas McLaughlin, who specializes in airline stock, below at day's end. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Some traders in New York did what they always did yesterday, others sported entirely new looks. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. C5) Graph tracks Dow Industrials minute-by-minute. (pg. A1) Chart: "Market Reactions"Historic performance of the stock market during major world events. Dec. 7, 1941: Pearl HarborEVENT DAY* -- 2.0DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 0.7Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: SundayNEXT TRADING DAY: -3.503 MONTHS: -9.10 Nov. 22, 1963: President Kennedy assassinationEVENT DAY* -- 6.6DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 5.12Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: -2.89NEXT TRADING DAY: 4.503 MONTHS: 12.04 Nov. 4, 1979: Capture of American Embassy in IranEVENT DAY* -- 20.5DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 36.0Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: SundayNEXT TRADING DAY: -2.863 MONTHS: 7.48 April 1, 1983: Bombing of American Marine barracks in LebanonEVENT DAY* -- 66.1DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 83.7Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: 1.02NEXT TRADING DAY: -0.733 MONTHS: 1.78 April 14, 1986: Bombing of Libya by American jetsEVENT DAY* -- 125.0DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 160.3Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: 0.85NEXT TRADING DAY: 0.243 MONTHS: 1.47 Dec. 21, 1988: Pan Am airliner explosion over Lockerbie, ScotlandEVENT DAY* -- 173.5DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 173.5Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: -0.07NEXT TRADING DAY: -0.193 MONTHS: 4.70 Aug. 2, 1990: Iraq invades KuwaitEVENT DAY* -- 253.1DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 160.2Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: -1.20NEXT TRADING DAY: -1.923 MONTHS: -13.05 Jan. 16, 1991: First day of air attack on IraqEVENT DAY* -- 134.6DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 147.9Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: 0.72NEXT TRADING DAY: 0.053 MONTHS: 19.05 Feb. 26, 1993: World Trade Center bombingEVENT DAY* -- 234.2DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 260.2Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: 0.17NEXT TRADING DAY: -0.463 MONTHS: 5.46 April 19, 1995: Oklahoma City bombingEVENT DAY* -- 377.5DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 328.3Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: 0.68NEXT TRADING DAY: 0.553 MONTHS: 11.38 Aug. 7, 1998: American Embassy bombings in Kenya and TanzaniaEVENT DAY* -- 756.3DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 635.6Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: 0.24NEXT TRADING DAY: -0.273 MONTHS: 3.69 Oct. 12, 2000: Attack on warship U.S.S. Cole in YemenEVENT DAY* -- 1,369.4DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 978.1Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: -3.64NEXT TRADING DAY: 1.573 MONTHS: 5.68 Sept. 11, 2001: Attack on World Trade CenterEVENT DAY* -- 2,369.0DAILY AVERAGE IN THE PREVIOUS 50 DAYS: 1,101.9Dow Jones Industrial Average performance/EVENT DAY: ClosedNEXT TRADING DAY: -7.133 MONTHS: N.A. (Source: Birinyi Associates)(pg. C5) Chart: "Around the World"Performance of major stock indexes since the attacks. BritainPERCENT CHANGE: -2.7%S.& P. 500PERCENT CHANGE: -4.9CanadaPERCENT CHANGE: -5.9ArgentinaPERCENT CHANGE: -6.8NasdaqPERCENT CHANGE: -6.8Dow Jones ind. avg.PERCENT CHANGE: -7.1SpainPERCENT CHANGE: -7.6JapanPERCENT CHANGE: -7.7FrancePERCENT CHANGE: -8.5New ZealandPERCENT CHANGE: -8.8AustraliaPERCENT CHANGE: -9.0GermanyPERCENT CHANGE: -9.3Hong KongPERCENT CHANGE: -10.5BrazilPERCENT CHANGE: -11.6ItalyPERCENT CHANGE: -11.9South KoreaPERCENT CHANGE: -13.3MexicoPERCENT CHANGE: -14.7SingaporePERCENT CHANGE: -14.8ThailandPERCENT CHANGE: -18.1 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); TRENDS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HIJACKING (74%); TERRORISM (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (52%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (70%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); KENYA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



513 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Bush's Remarks on Retaliation 

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from President Bush's answers to reporters' questions yesterday morning during a visit to the Pentagon, as recorded by Federal News Service Inc.:

Q. Mr. President, does the cost of freedom today, in this war you're about to wage, include the loss of civilian and military casualties? And can you keep us out of a depression and recession during this crisis?

A. The only thing I can do is reflect upon the spirit of the U.S. military, and the U.S. military is ready to defend freedom, at any cost. The men and women who wear our uniforms, both active-duty and reservists and National Guardspeople, are ready to respond to the call of the commander in chief and the secretary of defense.
 There's no question in my mind that the resolve of our military has never been stronger, and we will win the war. And there will be costs. But the military folks understand that, and so do I, and so does the secretary of defense. 
In terms of our economy, I've got great faith in the economy. I understand it's tough right now. Transportation business is hurting. Obviously, the market is -- was correcting prior to this crisis. But the underpinnings for economic growth are there. We're the greatest entrepreneurial society in the world. We've got the best farmers and ranchers. We've got a strong manufacturing base. But there's a challenge ahead of us, and I'm confident that our business community will rise to the challenge. 
Secondly, I'm confident we can work with Congress to come up with an economic stimulus package, if need be, that will send a clear signal . . . that the government's going to act, too. 
Thirdly, we've got a tax cut that's still working its way through the economy, as well as a reconstruction plan for New York and the area. And after all, the Congress in a bipartisan fashion overwhelmingly passed a supplemental of billions of dollars, which will help not only get New York City up and running again, but will help provide some economic stimulus. . . .

Q. Mr. President, is it the case, based on what you've said now, that war is inevitable? And can you tell the American people what that war is going to look like?

A. I believe -- I know that an act of war was declared against America. But this will be a different type of war than we're used to. This is -- in the past there have been, you know, beaches to storm and islands to conquer. . . .
But I know that this is a different type of enemy than we're used to. It's an enemy that is -- likes to hide and burrow in. And their network is extensive. They have no -- there's no rules. It's barbaric behavior. They slit throats of women on airplanes in order to achieve an objective that is beyond comprehension. And they like to hit, and then they like to hide out. But we're going to smoke them out. And we're adjusting our thinking to the new type of enemy. These are terrorists that have no borders. 
And by the way, it's important for the world to understand that we know in America that more than just Americans suffered loss of life in the World Trade Center. People from all kinds of nationalities lost lives. That's why the world is rallying to our call to defeat terrorism. Many world leaders understand that that could have easily -- that the attack could have easily happened on their land. And they also understand that this enemy knows no border.
But they know what I know: that when we start putting the heat on those who house them, they will get them running. And once we get them running, we have got a good chance to getting them, and that's exactly what our intent is. 
The focus right now is on Osama bin Laden, no question about it. He's the prime suspect and his organization. But there are other terrorists in the world. There are people who hate freedom. 
This is a fight for freedom. This is a fight to say to the freedom-loving people of the world we will not allow ourselves to be terrorized by somebody who thinks they can hit and hide in some cave somewhere.
It's going to require a new thought process. And I'm proud to report our military, led by the secretary of defense, understands that, understands it's a new type of war.
It's going to take a long time to win this war. The American people are going to have to be more patient than ever with the efforts of our combined efforts -- not just ourselves, but the efforts of our allies -- to get them running and to find them, and to hunt them down.
But as the secretary of, I mean, as the vice president said, you know, Osama bin Laden is just one person. He is representative of networks of people who absolutely have made their cause to defeat the freedoms that that we understand. And we will not allow them to do so.

Q. Do you want bin Laden dead?

A. I want him -- I want justice. And there's an old poster out West, as I recall, that said "Wanted: Dead or Alive "

Q. Do you see this being long term? You were saying that it's long term. Do you see an end at all?

A. I think there's a -- I think that this is a long-term battle -- war. There'll be battles. But this is long term. After all, our mission is not just Osama bin Laden and the al Qaeda organization. Our mission is to battle terrorism, and to join with freedom-loving people. We have -- are putting together a coalition that is -- a coalition dedicated to declaring to the world: We will do what it takes to find the terrorists, to rout them out, and to hold them accountable. And the United States is proud to lead the coalition.

Q. Are you saying you want him dead or alive, sir? Can I interpret your ----

A. I just remember -- all I'm doing is remembering when I was a kid, I remember that -- they used to put out there in the old West a wanted poster. It said "Wanted Dead or Alive." All I want, and America wants him brought to justice. That's what we want.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); TAX LAW (63%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (52%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (91%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



514 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PRESIDENT; 
Bin Laden Is Wanted in Attacks, 'Dead or Alive,' President Says

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
President Bush declared at the Pentagon this morning that he wanted Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in last week's terrorist strikes, brought to justice, and he pointedly recalled the frontier posters urging the capture of criminals "dead or alive."
 Hours after speaking at the Pentagon, where a hijacked plane was crashed last Tuesday, he visited Washington's largest Islamic center. There he asked the public to view Arabs and Muslims living in the United States as American patriots, saying that intimidation and harassment of them "will not stand in America." 
 And while he repeated his determination to hunt down and punish those responsible for the terrorist attacks, he added, "The face of terror is not the true faith of Islam."
Mr. Bush's appeal was amplified by the new director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Robert Mueller, who told reporters that his agents were already investigating suspected hate crimes against Arab-Americans and would prosecute them vigorously. 
Mr. Bush's twin messages of retaliation abroad and tolerance at home were delivered as he completed plans for calling up 35,000 military reservists to patrol American harbors and airspace. Then he convened a late-afternoon meeting of his economic advisers to review the damage to an already weakening American economy. For the first time, he spoke of using government spending to stimulate the economy.
Aides said he concluded the meeting by ordering them to assemble a "comprehensive package" to bail out the country's major airlines, though the White House would not say if he would back the industry's request for $20 billion in loan guarantees to keep operating at a time few Americans are flying.
The president also seemed to be preparing the country today for the likelihood of casualties in what he said would be a long war, one likely to be fought by unconventional means. 
"We will win the war, and there will be costs," Mr. Bush said.
But he warned that even if Mr. bin Laden were found, "there are other terrorists in the world," and, turning on his Texas twang, promised to "get them running and to find them, and to hunt them down."
As he arrived at the Pentagon, a smoky smell still hung in the air, drifting over from the west side of the building where the hijacked jet slammed into the outer ring and killed 188 people, including those aboard the plane. After meeting with Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and senior military officers, Mr. Bush stepped into the Pentagon cafeteria, where one employee began quietly singing "God Bless America." Gradually it spread throughout the room, and soon Mr. Bush also joined in.
He also spent five minutes talking to the pregnant widow of one of those killed in the attack, rubbing her back and giving her a peck on the cheek as he left.
His trip there, and then to the Islamic Center of Washington, on Embassy Row less than two miles from the White House, seemed part of an emerging White House strategy of trying to portray Mr. Bush as a resolute wartime leader, a compassionate father figure, and an economic strategist. After the White House was criticized for how little Mr. Bush was in evidence on the day of the attack, it may now be "overcompensating," said one Republican figure close to the White House.
Mr. Bush's comments about Mr. bin Laden, the Saudi millionaire believed to be in hiding in Afghanistan, came when he was asked if he wanted the suspected terrorist dead. "I want him -- I want justice," the presdient said. "And there's an old poster out West, as I recall, that said: 'Wanted: Dead or Alive.' "
Later his spokesman, Ari Fleischer, made it clear that Mr. Bush was not simply reminiscing about late-night Westerns, and would be happy to have Mr. bin Laden served up either way.
Mr. Fleischer said that the executive order prohibiting United States officials from engaging in assassinations remained in effect. But he quickly added that the rule "does not limit the United States' ability to act in self-defense." He did not say whether the battle against Mr. bin Laden and his organization fit that definition, but he left the strong impression that it did.
In describing his war goals in broad terms, Mr. Bush also talked about destroying the al-Qaeda network of terrorists, a goal Secretary of State Colin L. Powell began discussing over the weekend. Senior White House officials said that the remarks were intended to underscore that Mr. bin Laden's arrest or death would mark only the beginning of the war. Over the weekend Mr. Powell described al-Qaeda as a "holding company" for a variety of terrorist groups.
Mr. Bush will spend much of the week trying to build an international coalition to wage war on terrorism, but he and other officials acknowledged today it will be unlike any coalition ever before assembled.
A senior administration official today described it as essentially three concentric circles: Longtime allies like Britain that may provide troops and equipment, states near Afghanistan and other terrorist hot spots that could provide landing locations, intelligence or overflight rights, and finally smaller states and organizations that "have small capabilities but add an important voice."
Mr. Bush will be pressing his cause tomorrow when the president of France, Jacques Chirac, will be at the White House for a previously scheduled visit. Then, on Wednesday, Indonesia's new president, Megawati Sukarnoputri, will arrive. She has a tenuous hold on the world's most populous Islamic nation, and one official said today "we expect she will have to be very careful" in expressing support for Mr. Bush.
Then, on Thursday, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain arrives for a hastily scheduled visit to discuss joint action. Mr. Bush also spoke today to the emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, who is to come to Washington on Oct. 4.
The administration said nothing today about its military plans, and Mr. Bush stressed again the need for secrecy, saying he would never discuss his options. But Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, speaking about the crisis for the first time, said he expected the United States would also be "waging a financial war."
"What you're going to see now is an all-out attack" on terrorists and suspected terrorists, "and then systematically going after their financial assets," Mr. O'Neill said.
He said he would set up a Foreign Terrorist Asset Tracking Center, drawing on expertise from the Customs Service, the Internal Revenue Service, Secret Service, the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. to track the money that supplies the terrorists. But the Treasury has long had an office charged with doing that, equipped with massive computers that seek to track money flowing around the world.
Mr. Bush's visit to the Islamic center was part of an effort, White House aides say, not to repeat one of American history's greatest injustices: the treatment of Japanese-Americans during World War II.
Mr. Bush invited several Islamic leaders to participate in a memorial service at the Washington National Cathedral last Friday. And today he used his hourlong visit to the Islamic center to make it clear he is focusing on terrorists, not Muslims. "Islam is peace," the president said. "These terrorists don't represent peace. They represent evil and war."
He added later that Arab-Americans and Muslims should not have to fear for their safety as they move through their daily lives. Nonetheless, he said, since the attack women "don't want to go about their ordinary daily routines because, by wearing cover, they're afraid they'll be intimidated.".
The president of the Council on American-Islamic relations, Nihad Awad, who attended the session with Mr. Bush, said, "We thank the president for taking the initiative to reach out to the American Muslim community during this time of national crisis. His supportive remarks will help set a tone of tolerance and inclusion for our society." 
In talking about the hijackers, however, Mr. Bush kept up his bellicose language. He once again called them "barbarians," and graphically described the terror they wrought on the airplane that ultimately crashed in Pennsylvania -- a plane administration officials say they believe was on a kamikaze mission toward the White House or capital.
"They slit throats of women on airplanes in order to achieve an objective that is beyond comprehension," Mr. Bush said, in a comment his aides said was based on newspaper reports of the killing of a flight attendant. "And they like to hit, and then they like to hide out."
Beating such a foe, he said, is "going to require a new thought process." Later he added: "It's going to take a long time to win this war."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visiting the Pentagon, President Bush yesterday greeted some of the reserve troops he has called to active duty to patrol harbors and air space. (Paul J. Richard/Agence France-Presse)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); TERRORISM (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); ARAB AMERICANS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (76%); AIRLINES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); MISSING PERSONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HATE CRIMES; ARAB-AMERICANS; ISLAM; RESERVES (MILITARY); MUSLIM-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%) ;FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%) SANGER, DAVID E; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; MUELLER, ROBERT (DIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



515 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: In This Section 

 BODY:
 BACK TO BUSINESS

The stock market gets through the first trading in six days with sizable losses -- key indexes fall 7 percent -- but without a disastrous plunge. A1

On Wall Street, economic interests vie with patriotic sentiment. A1

A FOCUSED PURSUIT

President Bush, recalling frontier "dead or alive" wanted posters, says he wants Osama bin Laden brought to justice. But he also warns Americans against the harassment of Arabs and Muslims in the United States, saying "the face of terror is not the true faith of Islam." A1

President Bush condemns attacks on people perceived to be Middle Eastern. An Arizona man is charged in a weekend hate killing. B5

The complexity of life in "Little Kabul," Fremont, Calif. B5

THE INVESTIGATION

A possible link between the hijackers and a group that plotted to kill Americans in Jordan on Jan. 1, 2000. B1

Two days before the attack, a Muslim cleric suspected of ties to Osama bin Laden's organization led prayers at a Texas mosque. B3

A hijacker's American experience. B3

SAFETY AND LIBERTY

In the United States, soldiers in the streets, searches on the waterways and fighter patrols overhead. A1

Legal experts say the courts are unlikely to impose many restrictions on Congress' security decisions, which some foresee as including electronic identification, closer tracking of immigrants and restricting the airspace over New York and Washington. B1

Attorney General John Ashcroft outlines proposals that Congress will be asked to approve to expand government ability to intercept communications and to search and seize. B4

Legal assessments of the Congressional resolution authorizing the president to use "all necessary and appropriate force" against terrorism. B7

The Pentagon begins activating National Guard and Reserve troops. B7
The guardsmen who answered the call to the trade center wonder if the next call will send them overseas. B1

DEALING WITH THE PAIN

The families of United Flight 93 gather at a crater in southwestern Pennsylvania to mourn and honor the victims as heroes who fought back. B11

New York City expresses its grief at memorial and religious services. B11

Remembering missing firefighters, police officers and other city workers at St. Patrick's Cathedral. B8

Rabbis seek words to console and explain as Rosh Hashana begins. B8

The Rev. Jerry Falwell apologizes for his "insensitive, uncalled for" remarks last week linking the terror attack to a divine wrath provoked by liberals and others. B4

FOREIGN RESPONSES

The Taliban rebuff a demand to surrender Osama bin Laden, but set a high-level meeting for today to make a final decision. A1

French and British leaders prepare to come to Washington to show support, but elsewhere in Europe, signs of ambivalence. B2

Afghanistan appears headed for another wave of foreign intervention. B3

THE CITY REGROUPS

The lure of ground zero. People, some guiltily, flock to gaze at and photograph the devastation. A1

Near the end of his term, Mayor Giuliani enjoys acclaim and a revised image, and hears calls for "four more years." B9

In Albany, legislative approval for new antiterrorism measures that two weeks ago would have had no chance politically. B9

The city's family center for relatives of victims wins praise. B6

The city goes back to work, but not back to normal. B9

Accounts from downtown. B8

Vignettes of the missing. B10

Resurrecting the ferry ride from Brooklyn to Wall Street. B6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); TALIBAN (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARAB AMERICANS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (76%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ROSH HASHANAH (72%); APPROVALS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); IMMIGRATION (64%); LIBERALISM (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001 



516 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Sales Plummet As Broadway Posts Losses 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
Many of Broadway's leading producers and representatives from its major unions were scrambling yesterday to make a sweeping array of concessions and cost-cutting measures to help mend an industry imperiled by plunging ticket sales and a lack of tourist dollars after last week's terrorist attacks.
 Four Broadway shows have already announced that they will close on Sunday, with possibly half a dozen others in serious trouble. Among those hardest hit are some of Broadway's best known titles, including long-running shows like "Phantom of the Opera," "Les Miserables" and "Rent," productions that rely heavily on tourists, which are in short supply as a steady stream of frightening images spread across the country and the world. Also hurting were a handful of well-received revivals, including "The Music Man," "Chicago" and "Kiss Me, Kate." 
 Box office figures everywhere were grim, with almost every one of the 23 current productions posting six-figure losses for the week that ended Sunday, with few expecting profitable weeks any time soon.
"We're all going to lose money," said Kevin McCollum, a producer of "Rent." "The question is for how long."
All in all, the theater industry was facing the daunting prospect of dozens of empty theaters, a sight not seen since the economic crisis of the mid-1970's. Yesterday, in fact, a second planned fall production, Goodspeed Musicals' production of the musical "By Jeeves," announced that it was canceling a Broadway run, citing the withdrawal of its two major investors. Last week a planned production of Stephen Sondheim's "Assassins" was also postponed, because of concerns about the show's subject matter.
With all this in mind, the League of American Theaters and Producers, Broadway's trade group, and members of the stagehands' and actors' unions met on Monday to discuss their options, and meetings continued yesterday between individual producers and Alan Eisenberg, the executive director of Actors' Equity. Among the proposals on the table were 30 percent cuts in pay for all cast and crew and a proposal to waive the traditional week's notice for closings, a move that producers say is necessary as they evaluate daily box office takes.
Those daily sales have been off by as much as 80 percent since the attacks, Jed Bernstein, the president of the league, said.
Cameron Mackintosh, the producer of "Les Miserables" and "Phantom," said yesterday that his shows would probably need to cut their operating costs in half to survive.
"My shows in New York are in the same boat as virtually everything but the new hits," Mr. Mackintosh said, speaking of two seemingly unsinkable shows, "The Lion King" and "The Producers." "This is an unprecedented crisis. But I'm certainly quite willing to take a hit for a few weeks, because I think its important that Broadway does survive."
Mr. McCollum concurred: "We have a responsibility to the show, but also to the people we employ."
Indeed, a spirit of sacrifice seemed to be prevailing. The industry's three major theater owners -- the Shuberts, the Nederlanders and Jujamcyn -- have all agreed to waive rents for a while.
Producers are also likely to ask for price breaks on many services, including equipment rentals, concession suppliers and advertising in newspapers and on television.
Beyond immediate needs, Broadway was also trying to address the longer-term issue of convincing suburban and out-of-town audiences that it was all right to see a show.
"The problem is that nobody's on the plane coming in," said Emanuel Azenberg, the veteran producer. "No matter what you do, there's still the question of how do you get people in the theater again."
"If this is war, there's going to be casualties," he said.
Most industry people agreed that the most likely shows to close are those that were already in financial jeopardy before the attacks. Those that have already posted notices fit that description, including "Stones in His Pockets" (201 performances), "A Thousand Clowns (84 performances), "If You Ever Leave Me, I'm Going With You" (45 performances) and "The Rocky Horror Show" (365 performances).
Mr. Bernstein said that the industry would have weekly meetings to address the marketing of Broadway, a campaign that may include hotel and travel deals, benefit concerts and the possibility of an industrywide donation to relief efforts. Producers also might donate a piece of every ticket to relief efforts.
All of this comes during September's traditionally slow period for ticket sales, as summer tourists go home and few new shows open. Only one new show, "Urinetown," is scheduled to open on Broadway before Oct. 1.
Despite the travails, many porducers reported a charged atmosphere on stage as troupes in 1,000-seat houses performed to as few as 150 people. Producers also held out hope that a spate of big-ticket openings later in the fall -- including the international blockbuster "Mamma Mia" -- would help lift spirits and box offices.
"People have traditionally turned to entertainment in times of national crisis," Mr. Bernstein said. "So we think in the long run, prospects are going to improve. The challenge is to get from here to the long run."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Stones in His Pockets" is among the shows that have posted closing notices. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); THEATER (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TOURISM (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%) THEATER; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



517 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1916 words

HEADLINE: Windows That Rose So Close To the Sun 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
NEW YORK has many bars and restaurants with views of the city. Windows on the World was something else, a restaurant that seemed suspended halfway between the earth and the moon. From 107 stories, the views extended for 90 miles. Manhattan, Brooklyn and New Jersey spread out in sharply etched detail. The river bridges looked like fragile steel filaments from a quarter mile up, and New York Harbor threw back tiny sparks of sunlight. 
 Those windows were something else too. They ran floor to ceiling, and intensified the giddy sensation of soaring over Manhattan. Diners lusted after the tables alongside them. They offered the ultimate New York experience, sitting high atop the world's tallest, most powerful city -- A-number-one, top of the heap. 
 It may be merely a footnote to a national calamity, but the collapse of the World Trade Center's two towers ended an era in New York City dining. As a terrorist target, the towers represented American economic power. For hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers, and untold numbers of tourists, it was a place to eat. 
From the beginning, Windows on the World, and the busy hive of small food operations down below that fed thousands of workers every day, represented a grand experiment, undertaken at a time when New York's economy had hit rock bottom. Could a vertical city rise over the bent, intertwined streets of Dutch Manhattan? Could its population be fed every day in anything more than the most perfunctory way? And could any one restaurant match the sheer audacity of two 110-story buildings? Improbably, the answer to all these questions was yes.
The human cost is still not known. The two restaurants and bar on the 106th and 107th floors of 1 World Trade Center -- Windows on the World, the Greatest Bar on Earth and Wild Blue -- employed 450 people. Seventy-nine were on duty Sept. 11, said David Emil, whose company, Night Sky restaurants, operated the complex. Some were doing prep work for the evening, others were serving 500 people at a corporate breakfast seminar. All were still missing yesterday. 
The World Trade Center did not start out as a powerful symbol of the city's spirit. At birth, it was reviled as a waste of public money and an architectural monstrosity. If ever a building project had an image problem, the World Trade Center was it.
The change in public perception was brought about by Windows on the World. "It conveyed a level of respectability to what was a vilified complex," said Michael Whiteman, who helped plan the trade center's food operations with the restaurateur Joseph Baum. Within a year of opening, in April 1976, Windows on the World was one of the most talked-about restaurants in New York, and a prime draw for tourists, who lined up to take the 58-second elevator ride to the 107th floor.
The World Trade Center was, in concept, a bureaucratic palace. It was the showcase restaurant, with its commanding views, that came to embody the visionary drive behind the complex. In a city built on risk, the towers and the restaurant that seemed to hover in the sky added up to an almost absurd gamble. "In a way, it was the symbol of the beginning of the turnaround of New York," Mr. Whiteman said. "We were successful because New York wanted us to be successful. It couldn't stand another heartbreaking failure."
I never felt as if I were going to a restaurant when I stepped on the elevators to Windows on the World. The velvet ropes outside the express elevator, and the uniformed attendants who asked your destination, made me feel as if I were being transported to a different world . 
Critics were divided about the decor, but I thought it had a shiny, modern, go-ahead quality that suited the city's soul. At the same time, oddly enough, I felt that the view allowed you to see New York afresh, to recapture the way it appeared to Henry Hudson when he first sailed into the harbor on the Half Moon.
Will diners ever again find that perspective enchanting? The very idea of ascending dozens of floors to dine, overlooking the city, seems fraught with peril at the moment. I wonder whether, even with the passage of time, the romance of dining in the sky will ever recapture the public imagination. Exhilaration has now become too closely interwoven with terror.
Windows on the World had a difficult birth. Mr. Baum, the visionary behind landmark restaurants like the Four Seasons and La Fonda del Sol, had parted company with Restaurant Associates, the company he put on the map, when he won the bid to create the restaurants at the World Trade Center. Working with Mr. Whiteman and Dennis Sweeney, an engineer, he hired a team of consultants that included James Beard, Jacques Pepin and Barbara Kafka. 
Together they began planning a series of food stands and restaurants that would feed a population big enough for a midsize city, as 150,000 people passed through the complex every day. They created 22 food and drink outlets, all supplied by a central commissary, where deliveries arrived, prep work was carried out and stocks and soups were made. The complex had visual flair, in part because of graphic design by Milton Glaser.
On the street-level concourse, the Baum team created a food court, called the Big Kitchen, that was one of the first of its kind, not a collection of franchise operations, but a constellation of well-spaced fast-food stations that turned into retail operations at night. Mimi Sheraton, then the restaurant critic of The New York Times, called it "a quick-service cafeteria raised to new and inspired heights."
Office workers could eat barbecued ribs or chicken at the Rotisserie for lunch, and later buy the same food by the pound. The Big Kitchen included a grill station, a delicatessen, a bakery and a seafood bar. Quality was high. Essentially, because of centralized buying and the commissary system, everyone in the World Trade Center ate the same food, although it was prepared in different ways and sold at different price levels. "The whole creation," Ms. Sheraton wrote, "gives testimony to the belief that the most ordinary function can be performed in the most extraordinary ways."
Not far from the food court was the Market Bar and Dining Rooms. The name referred to the old Washington Market, which once operated where the trade towers now stood. It also reflected the restaurant's philosophy of creating the menu daily based on market purchases. Suppliers of specific ingredients were identified on the menu. In spirit, the restaurant was a steakhouse, but there was a vegetable sommelier who wandered from table to table, whipping up enthusiasm for the day's harvest, and suggesting how the kitchen might prepare it. Ms. Sheraton gave the restaurant three stars.
Midway in the tower, on the 44th floor, a restaurant called Sky Dive served as a cafeteria for middle management during the day and became a bar at night. And at the top of the tower sat Windows on the World and its two satellites, the Hors d'Oeuvrerie and Cellar in the Sky. The Hors d'Oeuvrerie, a lounge, offered a Danish smorgasbord by day and sushi at night. Cellar in the Sky, designed to look like a wine cellar, but all in white, with dappled light to suggest sunlight passing through grape leaves, gave New York one of its first wine-pairing menus. 
For New Yorkers of a certain age, these names resonate, even though most of them were phased out over time. The first chef at Cellar in the Sky, for example, was Eberhard Muller, who later took over Andre Soltner's kitchen at Lutece. The wines at Cellar in the Sky came from an extraordinary list developed by a 25-year-old wine salesman named Kevin Zraly, who so impressed Ms. Kafka that she urged Mr. Baum to hire him. He never left.
Mr. Zraly built one of the city's most admired wine lists. "Joe Baum told me to create the biggest and best wine list New York had ever seen," Mr. Zraly said yesterday. Circumstances were favorable. French winemakers were desperate for cash, and Mr. Zraly was able to get great wines at laughable prices. In the late 1970's, he turned his attention to California, still a foreign country for many wine lovers.
"Windows on the World and the Four Seasons were the first two restaurants on the East Coast to go into California wines in a big way," Mr. Zraly said. "But our first list really was international. It was Windows on the World, and we had wines from Yugoslavia, Chile, Hungary and Greece." The wine list, at the time of the attack, ran to 1,400 bottles. When the towers collapsed, Windows on the World had more than $1 million worth of wine in the tower.
Mr. Zraly also started a wine school attended by passionate amateurs and restaurant professionals. Its 14,000 graduates included untold numbers of wine stewards and cellar masters. Mr. Zraly said that the Windows on the World Wine School would keep its name and would carry on, in space provided at the Marriott Marquis Hotel in Times Square.
When it opened, Windows on the World created a stir. New York magazine put it on the cover, with the headline "The Most Spectacular Restaurant in the World." The bicentennial celebration, which brought a flotilla of tall ships into New York Harbor, attracted television cameras from all over the world, helping make Windows on the World the city's most visible restaurant.
In dollar terms, it was a huge success. "We had projected revenues of $12 million the first year, and the critics all said we'd be lucky to do $6 million," Mr. Whiteman said. "The criticism was so insistent that we came to believe it. We did $14 million, and it nearly killed us." At its peak in the late 1980's, Windows on the World was one of the country's top-grossing restaurants, taking in more than $24 million a year.
The more or less Continental menu blended classical French and American cuisines. It never quite lived up to the views or the wine list. Critics lodged their share of complaints, especially in the 1980's, when it rated but a single star from Bryan Miller in The Times in 1986. Even that was taken away in 1990. Three years later, the restaurant was closed after terrorists exploded a car bomb in the Trade Center's parking garage.
After that assault, there was rebirth. Mr. Baum and his team, called in once more, reconfigured the restaurants at the top of the tower at a cost of $25 million. The original interior, by Warren Plattner, was redone by Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer, who had worked with Mr. Baum on the Rainbow Room renovation. A high-energy, jazzy-looking bar, modestly named the Greatest Bar on Earth, was installed across from Windows on the World, whose kitchen finally began to deliver on its potential when Michael Lomonaco, a talented and popular chef, was hired away from the "21" Club. In 1999, the last piece of the puzzle fell into place with the opening of Wild Blue, in the space formerly occupied by Cellar in the Sky.
Windows on the World, originally attacked as elitist -- it was a private club by day -- evolved into the centerpiece of a populist entertainment complex. The restaurant was never cheap, but it was not intimidating either. The Greatest Bar on Earth had a technicolor fun-house decor and an atmosphere to match. It was loud and a little wild, especially on Thursday nights, when Latin bands attracted partygoers hellbent on having a good time. Wild Blue, by contrast, was one of the most charming, romantic restaurants in New York, a 60-seat cozy cocoon in the sky that felt as snug and safe as a ship's berth. 
And then, in the blink of an eye, it all disappeared.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A SPECIAL PLACE -- The Greatest Bar on Earth, above, across from Windows on the World, was installed after the World Trade Center was bombed in 1993. The original decor of the dining room at Windows on the World, left, with its floor-to-ceiling views of the city. The Market Bar and Dining Rooms, right, had a display of vegetables at the entrance when it first opened. Wild Blue, below, opened in 1999, replacing Cellar in the Sky. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Frances Roberts)(pg. F4); A VIEW, A VISION -- Windows on the World was on the 107th floor at 1 World Trade Center. (Philip Greenberg)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); HIJACKING (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%) RESTAURANTS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: WINDOWS ON THE WORLD (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); EARTH'S MOON (90%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



518 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: With Little Left, Japan Shaves Rate 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
With its short-term interest rates already effectively at zero, the Bank of Japan had no real way to join the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and other central banks in easing monetary policy today.
 All it could do to show solidarity with international efforts to forestall recession and shore up financial markets was to offer a symbolic gesture: it announced a reduction in its discount rate to 0.1 percent from 0.15 percent, a move with very little practical effect. 
 The bank also said it would continue to flood the Japanese money market with cash, to ensure that neither companies nor investors were hamstrung by any shortage of credit. That move, too, was largely symbolic, because much of the money it has already made available to the banking system has sat unused and there is little call for more. 
Of perhaps greater consequence, analysts said, was what the bank did not do today. The bank shrugged off the calls of political leaders for it to step up purchases of government bonds.
Instead, the bank reiterated its position that the government must take some of the hard steps it has been avoiding to clean up the bad-debt problems in the banking system and not look to the Bank of Japan for painless remedies.
"It is indispensable that progress is made in the area of structural reforms with respect to the financial system," the bank said in its announcement.
The Japanese stock market, which fell hard on Monday in anticipation of the reopening of American trading, recovered some of the lost ground today. The mood among investors was one of relief that the first day's action on Wall Street had not gone too badly and that the Fed and European monetary authorities had acted swiftly.
The Bank of Japan's actions were seen in the markets as a footnote and something of a disappointment for bond investors who had hoped for more intervention, analysts said.
Currency markets barely reacted to the bank's move, though there was some speculation that the bank would continue buying dollars and do it in a way that would leave even more yen available to the money markets.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business yesterday about the discount rate in Japan misstated the reduction. The rate was cut to 0.1 percent from 0.25 percent, not 0.15 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A currency dealer in Tokyo sent an order as the dollar was quoted at 117.77 yen yesterday morning. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%) CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%) BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



519 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty in U.S. Disrupts Investment Plans in Russia 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
"Everyone is looking for a safe haven, and Russia is not one."
 That assessment from a Russian investment banker captured the frustrating reality for several Russian companies that had planned to tap international stock and bond markets for new capital this fall. Deals are being reconsidered or postponed as the companies watch for signs of how much investor interest remains after the terrorist attacks in the United States last week. 
 Russian companies have been struggling for three years to rehabilitate their reputations among international investors after the country's financial crisis. Many have adopted investor-friendly habits like paying sizable dividends, reporting results in ways outsiders can understand, and keeping their profits and assets from being spirited away. There was hope that those efforts would soon bear fruit through new stock and bond offerings on more favorable terms.
But for most investors, Russia remains a risky emerging market, and a fear of risk is a common side effect of disasters and market disruptions. 
"Everyone is talking about capital markets deals," the Russian banker said. "If anyone tells you that what happened doesn't have any effect, they are lying through their teeth."
Plans for equity deals will be hit hardest, analysts said. One of Russia's biggest technology companies, IBS, had hoped for a strong response to a planned public offering, because the company is growing, is already partly owned by foreign investors and is not burdened with the ignoble legacy of Russian privatization. But for now, all bets are off.
"Our investment bankers are researching the situation," said Anatoly Karachinsky, the chief executive and majority owner of IBS. "We are waiting for their recommendation" before deciding whether to proceed with the offer or shelve it.
On the debt side, one major energy company, Tyumen Oil, confirmed yesterday that a bond issue planned for this year would be put off until February. But another, Sibneft, said it was pushing ahead with a $250 million bond sale in the autumn, though it, too, could be postponed if the market for emerging-market debt weakens further.
"We are pretty sure that market conditions are going to improve for Russian securities," said Joseph Bakaleinik, Tyumen's chief financial officer. "But I am hedging my bets."
Next year's business plan, he said, "doesn't include catastrophic events, but as we just saw, things could happen." 
Russian oil companies stand to gain if political upheaval raises oil prices or disrupts supplies from the Middle East, executives said.
Foreign companies with large projects here show no signs of slowing. 
General Motors, which is about to pour the foundation for a plant in Samara that will build a Russian-designed off-road vehicle, is "going ahead with our normal business," said David Herman, director of G.M.'s Russian operations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BONDS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); HIJACKING (76%); TERRORISM (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: TNK-BP LTD (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) RUSSIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



520 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL; 
Real World Tugs at Club's Focus

BYLINE:  By BILL PENNINGTON 

 BODY:
The Giants players, like most people who have been in sight of the destruction at the World Trade Center, have a distracted, aggrieved look in their eyes. It was plainly evident even in the team's practice Monday. It was hard for anyone to throw a tantrum over a dropped pass. Kicking a football wide of the goal posts seemed a rather immaterial gaffe.
 Yesterday the Giants were still not removed from the relief effort in Lower Manhattan. For the second time in days, the team bused into the city, this time to visit firehouses and families of the victims of last week's attack on the World Trade Center. 
 Beginning today, the Giants will slowly begin to prepare in earnest for their game Sunday at Kansas City. More and more, the focus will turn to the remainder of the football season. The Giants will continue to live with a foot in both worlds, and they know their duty in each.
On Monday a Giants coach paused outside the team's locker room to discuss the tragedy, to contemplate all of the same things now on everyone's mind: the aftermath of the attacks, the pursuit of the terrorists, safety at home and in the air, the effect on the nation's economy.
Finally, after 10 minutes, the coach held up the charts, the diagrammed plays and the videotapes that he was carrying under one arm. "I have to go find a way to stop Trent Green now," he said, referring to Kansas City's quarterback.
So it will be for the Giants as this week moves on. It won't be long before they are in Arrowhead Stadium, before a crowd expected to number in excess of 70,000. And they will know that less than their best effort will most likely lead to an 0-2 start in this season after their Super Bowl run. And in that setting, that will matter, too.
It may seem like years since the Giants lost to the Denver Broncos on "Monday Night Football," but the defeat exposed a number of areas they will have to turn their attention to this week; although given their injury situation for the game with the Broncos, the Giants actually fared well to lose by only 31-20.
The Denver game revealed that the preseason does matter. The Giants played the way many feared they would: like a team that had not been together throughout the preseason because of injuries. Back Tiki Barber, who missed all of the preseason with a broken bone, had one pass reception of 44 yards but had virtually no impact on the game otherwise. He seemed out of sync, which is understandable. But when your most valuable offensive player is a step behind, it is conspicuous.
Giants Coach Jim Fassel should remember his own oft-stated preseason goal of involving Ron Dayne more in the offense. Dayne averaged 5 yards a carry against Denver but was handed the ball only six times. Opposing teams are going to key on Barber; Dayne is the way to keep them honest. It would help, of course, if the Giants' offensive line played more consistently. Injuries made for a disjointed preseason for the line, and against Denver it struggled to protect quarterback Kerry Collins.
Collins had a good game and, not surprisingly, he connected repeatedly with the receivers who played in the preseason, Amani Toomer and Joe Jurevicius. But Collins's overall effectiveness was hampered by the absence of the injured wide receiver Ike Hilliard.
The truly debilitating injuries were on defense, where tackle Cornelius Griffin was essentially playing on one leg because of a severely sprained ankle. Defensive end Kenny Holmes was clearly inhibited by a bad case of the flu and might have been further slowed by the medication he needed just to get out of his sick bed. In the secondary, right cornerback Jason Sehorn did not play because of his cranky right knee and left cornerback Dave Thomas did not come close to covering Denver's receivers in key situations.
For the Giants, a week off has helped to resolve most of these injury situations. Sehorn is back, Barber should be regaining his rhythm, and Hilliard might play. Griffin and Holmes are healthy again. Fassel won't say Thomas is no longer the starter, but the coach already made that move in the Denver game, yanking Thomas for the rookie Will Allen.
The Giants traded up in the draft last spring to get Allen, forfeiting a second-round pick. They did this so Allen could replace Thomas. It seems it will simply happen faster than Fassel had expected. Giants fans will have to put up with the misplays that Allen's inexperience will bring about -- and they could be glaring for a while -- but in the long run Allen's promotion to the starting unit will get the Giants moving toward the future.
The rookie cornerback Will Peterson has been working primarily at right cornerback and nickel cornerback, but Peterson could eventually supplant Allen if needed.
The Giants have two good place-kickers, and probably the best old and young combination in the National Football League, in the 20-year veteran Morten Andersen and the rookie Owen Pochman. Punter Rodney Williams can hardly kick the football any farther than he did on Monday, when he punted one 80 yards in the air against Denver.
The coverage on Giants kicks continues to be inconsistent, however. The Giants twice tied the score with touchdowns, and the Broncos began each of their possessions after those with good field position. Denver started on its 34-yard line on one drive and its 29-yard line on the other. The Broncos scored touchdowns on each possession.
And so, even as the Giants somberly try to find the wherewithal to prepare for a game that requires a high level of vitality and spirit, they know they have much on which to improve. And they know, because they were emphatically told during their visits to support the trade center rescue workers, that how they perform is of consequence.
As defensive tackle Keith Hamilton said: "It's not life or death, and we understand that. But people are counting on us to do our jobs, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason Sehorn of the Giants was among the volunteers moving supplies to rescue workers at the World Trade Center destruction site Saturday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); HIJACKING (74%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); ATHLETES (71%) FOOTBALL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%) NEW YORK GIANTS 

PERSON: PENNINGTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



521 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
What to Do

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Is everything different now? Yes and no. Last week's atrocity has shaken us and realigned our priorities. But many things remain the same. Among them is the basic quandary of U.S. economic policy, which has by no means gone away. It has simply become more fraught.
 And if our leaders ignore that quandary -- or worse yet, if they seem in retrospect to have taken political advantage of our national trauma -- we will pay a large price, not only economically but in terms of national unity. 
 The terrorist attack has temporarily suspended the budget debate that dominated politics only 10 days ago. Nobody now thinks that we should worry about balancing the non-Social Security budget this year or next. 
 But the real concern in the days before the attack wasn't this year's or next year's budget. It was the truth -- which had finally become almost impossible to deny, though some tried -- that the tax cut had wreaked havoc with our long-run fiscal prospects. It was becoming clear that we could not pay for essential government programs and simultaneously build up the financial reserves needed to pay benefits to future retirees. 
 And the attack has not changed that truth. Indeed, the long-run fiscal prospect now looks far worse than before -- a point not missed by bond markets, which have driven up long-run interest rates sharply since the attack. War, whatever form it takes, is a very expensive proposition.
 So what should we do -- especially given the pressure to do something right now to prop up the economy?
 First, we should do no harm. If it was irresponsible to propose further long-run tax cuts before the current crisis -- and it was -- it is all the more irresponsible to do so now. 
 But doesn't the economy need a stimulus? Yes, it does -- but it needs a stimulus now, not a stimulus five years from now. We should focus on measures that help the current economy without further mortgaging our future. 
 What about a temporary tax cut? Frankly, it's hard to believe that such a cut will lead to much additional spending -- especially if it goes mainly into the pockets of affluent consumers, whose spending is not limited by lack of ready cash. A tax cut for less affluent families, such as a temporary payroll tax cut, might do more. But basically we should rid ourselves of the notion that tax cuts are the answer to all problems.
 The best way to help the economy right now is with a large, temporary increase in government spending. Such spending would create jobs now, when we need them -- unlike tax cuts whose biggest effects will come in 2005 and after.
 And last week's events made it clear how to spend the money. We need to rebuild New York. We need a rapid buildup of national defense broadly defined, going far beyond traditional military issues -- for surely the list of things that have been dangerously neglected does not stop with airport security. And now is not the time to quibble too much about helping a distressed industry; the airlines are in dire need of a bailout. 
 Unfortunately, Congressional leaders seem fixated on a truly terrible idea: a permanent cut in the capital gains tax.
 The economic impact of this move would be uncertain at best. Its most obvious effect would be to encourage people to sell stocks, driving markets down even further. There might be a temporary spike in revenue as people dump assets, but over the long run the Treasury would lose large sums. 
 And what about symbolism? Last week President Bush praised the nation for its spirit of "sacrifice and patriotism." Should one of the first major actions taken in the name of shared national sacrifice be a tax cut of dubious economic value, which delivers 80 percent of its direct benefits to the wealthiest 2 percent of the population?
 Not many people will dare denounce this as opportunism at a time when anyone who questions our leadership, on any issue, is accused of lacking patriotism. But in the years ahead, as the fiscal squeeze tightens, the sense that some politicians took advantage of our trauma to push this measure through will not help our new-found sense of national unity. 
 Mr. Bush can and should stop this disastrous idea now. He should tell Congress to focus on what the country needs, not on what a wealthy minority wants. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (87%); TAX RELIEF (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TERRORISM (75%); HIJACKING (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); BONDS (65%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%) TERRORISM; TAXATION; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (57%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



522 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Rescuing the Airlines 

 BODY:
Even before last week's terrorist attack, this was shaping up to be one of the worst years ever for the nation's airlines because of the abrupt economic slowdown. Now this could become the year that many carriers, even some of the largest, simply don't survive. Hence the sense of urgency at the White House and on Capitol Hill to draw up a relief package. Commercial aviation, the industry most severely affected by last week's terrorist attacks, is critically important to the overall economy. Congress cannot stand aside and allow an act of war to destroy the nation's transportation network.
 The airline industry, which had been projecting a loss of some $3 billion for the whole year, estimates it has already lost close to twice that amount as a result of the attacks. Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta says that airlines are now losing up to $300 million a day. Nervous companies and vacationers are canceling travel plans, and future bookings have dried up. At the same time, airlines face costly new security procedures. They have announced significant cutbacks in service and tens of thousands of layoffs and are expected to burn through their cash reserves in a matter of months, if not weeks. 
 What makes the situation so dire is that these are low-margin, highly leveraged businesses with exorbitant fixed costs. What's more, the potentially vast legal liabilities stemming from the attack will make it difficult if not impossible for airlines to secure new loans or to renew insurance contracts. 
Mass bankruptcy proceedings are not the answer. A number of carriers have survived bankruptcy in the past without a disruption in service, but an industrywide collapse as a result of the terrorist attack would more likely lead to the liquidation of a number of what seemed, until last week, to be strong carriers. This would result in a far less competitive airline industry, and would have ripple effects throughout the economy. 
This worst-case scenario is unlikely to unfold, in part because it is plausible enough to have galvanized Capitol Hill to prevent it. But to determine exactly how much help the industry deserves, Congress must first quantify the damage. Until that can be done, lawmakers should provide more limited immediate help without allowing the current atmosphere of crisis to stampede them into writing a blank check. 
Industry lobbyists are asking for a $24 billion package of cash, loan guarantees and tax breaks, aimed at ensuring the solvency of carriers through the middle of next year. They call this a reasonable estimate of the higher costs and lower revenues carriers face as a result of the attack. Lawmakers seem more inclined to offer a $15 billion package. But there is still a great deal of uncertainty that makes it difficult to arrive at any definitive price tag for last week's calamity. For instance, how soon will vacationers and business travelers return to flying? How many of the regularly scheduled flights out of busy airports will have to be eliminated in order to create time for tougher security checks? 
A comprehensive bailout should wait until some answers are available. Hearings scheduled before the House and Senate today and tomorrow must lay down the principle that American taxpayers will protect the integrity of their transportation network from terrorism, but not from losses due to the economic slowdown. Congress should not immunize businesses against normal market forces.
The industry is also asking that United and American Airlines be protected from lawsuits brought by victims other than the survivors of the passengers in the hijacked planes. There is certainly a case to be made that these companies should not be held accountable for an act of war on New York and Washington, a lapse in U.S. intelligence-gathering or a Congressional failure to beef up airport security. But these legal questions are complex, and Congress should not be hasty in resolving them, either. 
Right now, the federal government should focus on assistance to ensure the airlines' short-term survival. Congress might therefore consider a two-step rescue plan, voting as early as this week to provide some emergency loan guarantees and cash aid while it continues to investigate the best and fairest way to meet the airlines' longer-term needs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LIQUIDATIONS (72%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); LITIGATION (64%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EDITORIALS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



523 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE BOSS; 
A Hole Full of Promise and Now Pain

BYLINE:  By Alexandra Lebenthal; Written with Ann Wozencraft.

 BODY:
When we were little, my dad would take us down to see the World Trade Center construction site, and we would look at it being built. I must have been about 5 years old when he first took my sister and brother and me down there.
 You've never seen such a hole of activity. You could see the subways running underneath. The excavated dirt became Battery Park City. I would always marvel at what they built on that hole. Seeing that hole again is an unimaginable sight. My dad thought it was very important for us to see what municipal bonds built. Bonds built infrastructure. That's what municipal bonds do. 
 The World Trade Center was the epitome of what municipal bonds build. It was the shining monument of infrastructure.
To not have the World Trade Center, to see that hole that I never thought I would see again, is affecting me more than I ever believed was possible. I really felt a connection. When I saw that devastating hole, I grabbed someone's hand. It was like seeing the body without its head.
Lebenthal & Company is just two blocks from the World Trade Center. From my office window on the 12th floor of 120 Broadway, I can see the devastation. You can see scraps of paper and debris on the graves of the Trinity Church cemetery.
From our trading floor, we have hung American flags in the windows that face the New York Stock Exchange. We used to be able to see the World Trade Center from our window. Our view was obstructed. But now we can see the American Express building, which we could never see before. At Liberty Plaza, there were beautiful trees and people would have lunch or play chess and backgammon. Now there's only cracked concrete and square holes where the trees used to be.
The nauseating smell is overwhelming; it just hangs in the air. It is a constant reminder of what has happened.
Even after it is gone, it will be hard to forget. We turned off the air-conditioning to prevent additional particles of dust from getting in, but you can still smell it everywhere in our office.
None of the phone lines are working. We're all using our cell phones. The bond market is a network of people talking to one another. It's really frustrating for us not to have our phone lines working because that's how we communicate with one another and our customers.
The blow to an already weakened economy is sort of a shock, another spear in a bull that's already been pummeled by the bullfighter.
A bond is a legal contract for the future delivery of money. We are telling our customers that even in the most terrible disasters, like the San Francisco earthquake, bonds have paid. Without bonds, companies can't borrow.
If you can't borrow, you can't rebuild. New York City has always known that.
I went to a soccer game on Sunday for Charlotte, my 5-year-old, and laughed for the first time since the crisis on Tuesday of last week. I was laughing so hard with all these 5-year-olds and their parents.
Charlotte almost scored a goal but then she fell down and started to cry. It just puts it all in perspective. I've also prayed with my son, Ben, and my husband, Jay. We feel very fortunate. It feels really terrific to hug people. I find that I start to let go and then I want to hug them again. It isn't like air-kiss hugs, it's good, full-body-contact hugs. I hugged our human resources director three times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexandra Lebenthal, head of Lebenthal & Company, two blocks from the World Trade Center destruction. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LEBENTHAL & CO 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: LEBENTHAL, ALEXANDRA; WOZENCRAFT, ANN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



524 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Airline Executives Ask For Financial Assistance
The airline industry won assurances of billions of dollars in financial help from Congress and the Bush administration. But lawmakers said they had not settled on details of the package and suggested that the aid would come with conditions.
 Norman Y. Mineta, the transportation secretary, said he hoped to have a package of assistance ready early next week. Page A1. 

Boeing said that it would lay off 20,000 to 30,000 workers by 2002, and United Airlines is expected to lay off 20,000 employees. B2.

What Municipal Bonds Can Build
Alexandra Lebenthal, chief executive of Lebenthal & Company, said that when she was a little girl, her father took her to see the construction of the World Trade Center because he thought it was important to show what municipal bonds built, she said. "The World Trade Center was the epitome of what municipal bonds build," she said. The Boss. C8.

Sales of Wireless Phones Increase
Several wireless telephone companies reported that sales had increased in the days following last week's terrorist attacks. C6.

Tripped Up by New Fears of Flying
Whether grounded by their own fears or by the snarl of canceled flights following the attacks on the World Trade Center, travelers over the past week have needed stamina and ingenuity to get where they want to go. C4.

Security at major airports is more intrusive than anyone has ever seen in this country. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C4.

CNN Promises Afghan Coverage
CNN promises that the network will be in a position to provide coverage of any American military action in Afghanistan. C2.

A Blow to Tourism in New York
Hotel and restaurant owners say that the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center have cast a pall over hotels and restaurants. A1.

Russian Companies Delay U.S. Deals
Several Russian companies had planned to tap the international stock and bond markets, but those transactions are being rethought or postponed. World Business, Section W.

Sale of Anemia Drug Is Approved
Amgen said that it had received approval from the Food and Drug Administration for a new version of its top-selling anemia drug. C9.

Honeywell Won't Meet Forecasts
Honeywell International said that it would not meet analysts' earnings estimates and that it planned to cut more jobs. It said it expected airlines to reduce purchases of cockpit control equipment. Honeywell said third-quarter profit from continuing operations would be 43 cents to 45 cents a share. Shares of Honeywell fell 99 cents, to $28.51. C13.

Bank of England Joins in Rate Cuts
The Bank of England, following other central banks, cut interest rates a quarter-point, to 4.75 percent. World Business, Section W.

Ford Settles a Lawsuit Over Tires
Ford Motor said that it settled a lawsuit brought by the family of a Texas woman who was killed when a tire came apart and the Explorer she was riding in flipped over. A18.

Energy Prices Kept Inflation Down
Inflation was muted in August, kept in check by falling energy prices, the government said in a report. C13.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,903.40 down 17.30Nasdaq composite -- 1,555.08 down 24.4710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.72% up 0.10The euro -- $0.9268 up 0.0024The dollar -- 117.23 yen down 0.50 Graph: "TODAY" shows balance of trade since the beginning of the year. Graph tracks Honeywell International's share price for September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (83%); AIRPORTS (79%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (66%); US FDA APPROVALS (64%); ANEMIA (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (65%); BOEING CO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); AMGEN INC (52%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (65%); F (NYSE) (65%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (52%); HON (NYSE) (52%); HON (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (65%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (52%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



525 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: CHARITY; 
Week's Total Is $8 Million For Victims

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
In the wake of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, social services agencies supported by The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund are gearing up to provide services specifically to those affected by the attack, whether they 
have lost loved ones, were injured, lost jobs or have trouble coping with the gruesome images of the last week.
 The Times has set up a special monthlong campaign to raise money for these agencies. In just seven days, the 9/ 11 Neediest Fund has raised more than $8 million. 
 The agencies supported by the fund are able to help families and individuals with counseling, and with emergency cash and rent assistance, food and clothing. All the agencies offer their services to people of all religious backgrounds.
*The Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service also offers job training and placement services. "We anticipate a lot of people will be suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder," said Melanie Fallon, a spokeswoman for the bureau. People seeking help may call (718) 310-5600.
*Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York operates community centers in Manhattan, the Bronx, Staten Island, and in counties along the Hudson River. Call (212) 371-1011, extension 2401 for information on temporary shelter, child care and medical attention. 
*Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens also offers support groups and day care services and operates four neighborhood centers in downtown and southeast Brooklyn, Astoria and Hollis. For details the agency has set up a temporary number, (718) 625-7800.
*The Children's Aid Society performs much of its work for children through the schools they attend in Upper Manhattan and the Bronx. It also helps parents with child care and provides some treatment for asthma. Families who need assistance may call (212) 358-8930.
*The Community Service Society of New York specializes in helping families learn what public benefits they are eligible for, including unemployment insurance and food stamps. It is prepared to help with funeral and burial expenses. For details, call (212) 614-5566.
*The Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies has workers for disaster-related trauma, and offers group purchasing for churches that need emergency food or equipment. Its temporary phone number is (212) 614-5425.
*UJA-Federation of New York supports a number of philanthropies in the metropolitan area with many services, including at-cost funerals, temporary day care and temporary office space. It may be reached at (800) UJA-FED7 or (212) 753-2288.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an internet donations service.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

*New address as of 9/12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); NEW YORK TIMES 9/11 NEEDIEST FUND; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%)

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



526 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INDUSTRY; 
Boeing and United Plan to Lay Off Thousands

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON and LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
As the airline industry continues to hemorrhage cash in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks, the Boeing Company said last night that it would lay off 20,000 to 30,000 workers by the end of 2002 because of fewer orders for aircraft.
 Separately, United Airlines is expected to announce today that it is laying off 20,000 employees, or 20 percent of its work force. And American Airlines, the No. 1 carrier, is expected to announce job cuts tomorrow, along with Northwest Airlines, the No. 4 carrier. Yesterday, two smaller airlines, Frontier Airlines in Denver and Midwest Express in Milwaukee, said they would cut 440 and 450 jobs, respectively. 
 With government officials now discussing a $24 billion bailout for the airline industry, airline executives are hoping to win enough concessions from legislators, while making deep financial cuts of their own, to keep an already troubled industry solvent. 
The cuts at Boeing are coming in its commercial airplanes unit, which is expecting fewer orders. Boeing had expected to deliver 538 planes this year but said in a statement last night that the figure could now come in as low as 500. For 2002, deliveries are estimated in the low 400's, compared with the 510 to 520 previously forecast. Such cuts are unusual given that airlines order years in advance.
"It is critical that we take these necessary steps now to size the commercial airplanes business to support the difficult and uncertain environment faced by our airline customers," Alan Mulally, the chief executive of the commercial airlines unit, said in the statement.
Airlines are dealing with two particularly urgent issues. The first is a severe cash squeeze resulting from continuing reductions in operations after they were suspended last week when the deadly hijackings took place. Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta said yesterday that the airlines had lost $250 million to $300 million a day since planes were grounded on Sept. 11.
The other challenge is paying for the potentially expensive overhaul of airline security systems. Layoffs and reduced flight schedules are expected to relieve some of the cost pressures. So are the layoffs to be announced by companies this week, which would come in addition to job cuts totaling 23,000 announced in recent days by Continental Airlines and US Airways. Continental executives have predicted that the industry may lose 100,000 jobs. 
But longer term, the airlines are facing even broader problems -- a soft economy, high fuel and labor costs, and too many carriers competing for what may turn out to be too few travelers. These problems are unlikely to be solved by a federal bailout, analysts say, making it more likely that the industry will be forced to consolidate to find profits.
"The airlines have relied on growth as a solution to their cost problems -- that is, they were going to fly their way out of their problems," said an industry executive, who declined to be identified because he is advising one airline during the crisis. The question being asked by executives, he said, is, "Is there a way to shift part of the cost to the government, so we have a better chance at profitability?"
Executives for the Air Transport Association, the industry's lobbying group in Washington, were refining guidelines yesterday that they hoped legislators would adopt as part of its bailout package. Carol B. Hallett, chief executive of the association, suggested in a memorandum that executives ask the White House and Congress for several things, including tax repeals, cash infusions, grants and loan guarantees.
Beyond that, Ms. Hallett is also suggesting that the federal government define liability for lives lost and property damaged when the hijacked airliners crashed. American and United executives have said they are willing to be held liable for the claims of those passengers on the four planes that went down. But if they are liable for any lives lost on the ground, as well as property, they say they will be put out of business. 
Where the airlines are most likely to receive help from the federal government is with security. Ms. Hallett is asking for aid not only at airport security checkpoints -- which airlines are responsible for maintaining and where the oversight has been criticized as too lax -- but on airplanes as well. Measures the industry has proposed include improving cockpit security and having sky marshals aboard planes in flight. 
How much help -- money or otherwise -- legislators will be willing to authorize for the industry is uncertain. "I think generally legislators would like to be able to say, understandably, to the public that this is not a handout, but a contribution," said H. Rodgin Cohen, chairman of the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell, who advised banking officials during the savings and loan debacle of the 1980's. "They want to make sure they are not being viewed as supporting an industry or a company because of private-sector mistakes."
The intense lobbying is only beginning. Donald J. Carty, chairman of AMR, parent of American, is expected to be in Washington tomorrow and Friday to meet with members of Congress. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); LAYOFFS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); BAILOUTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ;BOEING CO; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; MIDWEST EXPRESS AIRLINES; FRONTIER AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); UAL (NYSE) (74%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%) ;HOLSON, LAURA M; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



527 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: ECONOMIC EFFECTS; 
Attacks Strike Hard at States' Economies

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
The terrorist attacks last week are beginning to deal a blow to state economies, damaging tourism and travel-related industries, chipping into sales tax revenues and, with the prospect of war on the horizon, throwing many states into uncertainty about their economic future.
 States across the country, many already struggling in a slowing national economy, are considering dipping further into rainy day funds or making deeper cuts in budgets already stripped to the bone.
 "We had a number of states that were already concerned about their budgets and their revenues," said Don Hunter, manager of information and membership services for the Council of State Governments. "What has happened is that this series of events has removed even more of their revenue base. This can become a very difficult cycle because states are already facing difficulties and we are seeing reductions in employment. Now we're going to see even more." 
In Louisiana, for instance, state officials have canceled a $2.5 million tourism campaign.
And the state is concerned that cotton, soybean and sugar-cane farmers may have lost crops because crop-dusters were banned from flying for a week after the attack.
In Iowa, Gov. Tom Vilsack is putting dozens of travel requests from state agencies on hold, and he plans to announce budget cuts on Thursday.
In Indiana, Gov. Frank L. O'Bannon has asked all departments to look at their budgets to find cuts.
In Idaho, where the attacks have already cost the Boise Airport $200,000 in revenue, the state is bracing for tens of millions of dollars in lost tourism by the end of the year.
In Nebraska, Gov. Mike Johanns has called a special legislative session for late October to grapple with a budget shortfall that is expected to get worse in light of last week's catastrophe.
"It will change the spending that the state does, no doubt," said Chris Peterson, a spokesman for Governor Johanns. "Our own economists in the state government and others are signaling that the terrorist attacks provide a great deal of uncertainty in revenue projections for the next few months. The governor has said that this is something we have to face, and that's why he has been so up front about calling the special session."
The effects of last week's attacks are acute in states that rely on tourism and air travel.
"I'm concerned uniquely about Florida's economy as it relates to this because commercial aviation is a lifeblood for our state," Gov. Jeb Bush said.
In Hawaii, with its multibillion-dollar tourism industry and dependence on air travel, hotel occupancy is down sharply, and Gov. Benjamin J. Cayetano plans to meet with lawmakers and representatives from the airline, tourism, banking and retail industries on Wednesday to find ways to protect the economy.
Many states are predicting ripple effects that go well beyond the tourism and travel industries.
They worry about effects on sales tax revenue if consumer spending does not recover. They are concerned that a war will cause wide swings in oil prices and changes in federal aid to states.
And states with large military bases, like North Carolina, are worried that a decision to send thousands of troops overseas could depress the economies of the base communities.
Several other states are forming task forces or calling meetings to consider the effects of the attack. But for now uncertainty reigns.
"It is essentially an impossible question to answer almost because of the fact that we've never been here before," said Arturo Perez, a budget specialist with the National Conference of State Legislatures.
"The next closest thing to this would be the Persian Gulf war," Mr. Perez said. "That was the last time states faced so much uncertainty with regard to their economies."
States that depend more heavily on tourism and travel will undoubtedly suffer more in the short term, Mr. Perez and others say.
Many companies are curtailing travel for their employees. Such decisions affect a variety of businesses like rental car agencies and restaurants.
One example, Mr. Hunter said, was his organization's decision, "because of security concerns and travel problems," to cancel its annual meeting this week in Anchorage.
The loss of the 2,000 people who were expected to attend "is going to have a tremendous effect up there," he said. 
In Utah, where skiing and other vacation activities are vital to the economy, "we're seeing cancellations of hotel reservations around the southern Utah national park areas, as well as smaller convention and business meetings," said Spence Kinard, assistant director of the Utah Travel Council.
Mr. Kinard said the state was also worried about the effect on the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City.
"I think the economy poses as great a threat to the Olympics right now as does terrorism," he said.
States where airlines or airports are big employers will also suffer immediate setbacks.
United Airlines announced today that it would lay off 20,000 workers, echoing a decision by Continental Airlines to furlough 12,000 employees and the announcement that Midway Airlines was shutting down for good.
"If you're a state that has airport hubs, like Texas, with American in Dallas and Continental in Houston, you'll be seeing some unexpected layoffs you did not count on in macroeconomic forecast," Mr. Perez said.
But over the longer term many states are worried that slumps in sales tax from lower consumer spending will have a spiraling impact on the economy.
"There is a lot of concern about consumer confidence and consumer spending that will potentially dampen sales tax collections," said Jean Ross of the California Budget Project, a nonpartisan organization that tracks the state's finances.
David Bronner, chief executive of the Retirement Systems of Alabama, a $26 billion pension fund, said: "I think before the terrible tragedy Alabama's economy was heading toward a recession. Since the tragedy has taken place I think we are in a recession, and it will hurt Alabama more than most places because of the dependence on sales taxes."
Ed Richardson, the Alabama school superintendent, said the government would almost certainly spend less on schools in the next fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, and possibly the year after that as well.
And several states are concerned about the impact of war, including the deployment of military overseas and the effect on gasoline prices.
"It's certainly going to have its costs in terms of the diversion of certain manpower from private to military use," said James LeBas, chief revenue estimator for the Texas comptroller's office. "In the short run we can expect to see oil prices higher than before, and if the conflict continues there will probably be continued upper pressure."
No state has announced budget cuts yet, but several expect to soon.
"Some of the plans we announce on Thursday will reflect what has happened in the country," said Joe Shannahan, press secretary for Governor Vilsack of Iowa.
"Right now I can't say how much it's going to affect what happens or what cuts are made, because we're still planning," Mr. Shannahan said. "What we know is that we have got to do something. We can't continue to work in the same way."
And in Indiana, Andrew Stoner, a spokesman for Governor O'Bannon, said, "We're putting the brakes on all spending right now and looking for ways to make more cuts so we won't be hit with something unexpected when our revenues don't match the spending we've been doing."
Then there is the toll on cities that became pivotal pieces of the terrorist attacks. In Boston, where the flights of two of the hijacked airliners began, hotel occupancy this week was about 45 percent at a time when occupancy usually hovers at 90 percent to 95 percent, said Patrick Moscaritolo, director of the Greater Boston Convention and Visitors Bureau.
Three conventions scheduled for September have been canceled, partly because the organizers did not know when the airport would reopen. Each would have filled at least 2,000 hotel rooms a night.
"The short-term corporate meetings business pretty much has dried up," Mr. Moscaritolo said. "Companies that already were under pressure to reduce costs are now going to accelerate. You're going to see even more cutbacks."
Mr. Moscaritolo is hopeful that at least some Americans will be drawn to Massachusetts because of landmarks that connect Americans to their revolutionary past.
"You can sit in the Old North Church and visualize hanging the lanterns; you can walk through Paul Revere's house and touch it," he said.
Patriotism might be the state's biggest draw right now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SALES TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LODGING (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TOURISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); AIRLINES (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); SUGAR FARMING (67%); TRENDS (67%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (67%); CIVIL AVIATION (65%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); STATES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; SALES TAX; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF STATE GOVERNMENTS (57%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (51%); MIKE JOHANNS (50%) ;BELLUCK, PAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



528 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: TOURISM; 
Vacant Rooms, Empty Tables, Scared Tourists

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
At the New York Palace Hotel on Madison Avenue, more than three-quarters of the 1,058 rooms sat empty yesterday. The Plaza Hotel, a Fifth Avenue landmark, is considering closing its famed Oak Room and Oyster Bar because business is so bad.
 Other restaurants are also suffering; cancellations have turned the catering business at the Rainbow Room, an Art Deco landmark high above Rockefeller Center, into a ghost town. 
 Beyond that, producers and union representatives spent part of yesterday scrambling to help the theater industry, which has seen four Broadway shows announce that they will close on Sunday, with half a dozen others in serious trouble after last week's terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. Page E1. 
Tourism in New York is reeling a week after the attack. Hotels, restaurants and much of the city's $25 billion tourism industry were already in a slump because of the softening economy. While it is not surprising that business would be bad a week after the attack, the drop was so sharp and the signs are so troubling that people in the industry fear that the problem may go on for weeks, if not months.
"We're being decimated," said Ian Schrager, the chairman of Ian Schrager Hotels, which owns the Royalton and Paramount Hotels, where the highly stylized lobbies and restaurants that are usually packed with a noisy crowd of movie stars and publishing executives were strangely quiet. "People have been spooked by this. I've never seen a drop in occupancy like what happened after the attack."
Although it is hard to know the exact situation nationally, a spot check of hotels across the country showed that other cities were also suffering.
While the tourism industry often gets short shrift in comparison with Wall Street or the communications industry, NYC & Company, the city's convention and visitors bureau, estimates that the industry employs 280,000 people, when museums, Broadway theaters and other cultural institutions are included with hotels, restaurants and retailing. 
Peter Ward, president of the Hotel Trades Council, an alliance of hotel unions, said 3,000 members have already been laid off, including about 1,000 workers at four downtown hotels: one was destroyed in the attack, two were damaged and the other one was closed. Some hotel owners say half the city's 30,000 hotel workers may be laid off. Mr. Ward said hotels were calling every day to discuss layoffs or short work weeks.
"We're getting hit with massive layoffs," Mr. Ward said. "We expect a significant downturn."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani expressed his concern yesterday. "We are specifically going to reach out to restaurants and to Broadway plays to see if they need some transitional help because we may be going through a period in which people might just not feel like going to a Broadway play or a restaurant," he said. Mr. Giuliani added, "Things are going to be obviously different two, three and four weeks from now."
The nation's airports closed on the afternoon of the attack. Many travelers and parties began canceling reservations. Airlines are still flying only limited schedules.
"The airlines are the vehicle, for the most part, for delivering guests and business travelers to our doors," said Jonathan M. Tisch, the chief executive of Loews Hotels. "If the people are not flying, they are not staying in our hotels. If they are not in hotels, then they are not eating in restaurants or shopping in retail."
Few of the city's hotels are faring much better, with the percentage of full rooms, called the occupancy rates, in the 20's and even the teens. 
Mr. Tisch said the city's hotel association hopes to meet with the mayor and Governor George E. Pataki soon to talk about what can be done. "The mayor and the governor are keenly aware," he said, "of how important our industry is to the economic fiber of the city and the country."
Many hotel owners said they had been hoping for a strong fourth quarter to offset a decline in business because of a soft economy, a drop in business travel budgets and a strong dollar. The industry was coming off a record-setting year, when the average occupancy was about 84 percent.
The Essex House Hotel, for one, expected to be full last week and this week. But on Monday, occupancy was 35 percent.
Tim Zagat, who publishes the Zagat restaurant surveys, said the city's restaurants had also been feeling the economic downturn before the attacks. The steak houses and restaurants that depend on executives wielding expense accounts are hurting the most. So are the expensive catering halls where $800 a plate events are not unusual.
"We're all taking a beating," said Giuseppe Cipriani, whose family operates the Rainbow Room and Cipriani 42nd Street. "People that lost employees don't want to party now."
Some hotel owners have sent prepared food to rescue workers and offered to turn over as many as 25,000 of Manhattan's 70,000 hotel rooms for displaced office workers.
"It's great help for businesses that have been displaced," said Mr. Zagat, who is also the chairman of NYC & Company. "On the other hand, it's a reflection that some hotels would just as soon have their rooms rented for a year."
The Sheraton Manhattan on Seventh Avenue is being converted into a temporary home for Lehman Brothers, an investment bank uprooted by the terrorist attack.
The convention business was also hurt, both by the cancellation of events scheduled for last week and the postponement of ones to be held in the next few weeks. 
The United Nations also postponed a two-week General Assembly meeting that had been planned to start next Monday and had been expected to bring scores of foreign leaders and their entourages to the city.
At the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, three major trade shows originally scheduled for September and October have been postponed.
The national signs were not good, although it was not clear if the immediate drop in hotel bookings would continue. Four conventions that would have brought more than 10,000 people to Boston were canceled, according to the Greater Boston Convention and Visitors Bureau. 
Hotel industry officials in a sampling of cities, including Boston, Chicago, San Francisco, Minneapolis and New Orleans, reported sharply lower occupancy rates. Patrick B. Moscaritolo, the president of the Boston Convention Bureau, said that he had spoken yesterday to counterparts across the country, and that other cities, including Las Vegas and Philadelphia, were reporting drops of 40 to 60 percent. 
Los Angeles appeared to be a mixed bag. The Los Angeles Downtown Marriott, which has many business travelers, said occupancy had dropped to 28 percent when normally it would be 75 percent to 100 percent. Rates, however, were reported to be holding steady at several hotels in Santa Monica.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As ticket areas like Terminal A at Newark International Airport remained ghostly, New York's hotels were reeling, with occupancy rates falling drastically. Top, bell men at the Plaza, which may close the Oak Room. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times, top; Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A1); The normally busy lobby of the Plaza Hotel was all but empty. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TOURISM (90%); LODGING (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); FILM (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); HIJACKING (74%); TERRORISM (74%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); THEATER (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); LOBBYING (58%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); PUBLISHING (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



529 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: DISAVOWAL; 
Father Denies 'Gentle Son' Could Hijack Any Jetliner

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Sometimes shouting, sometimes crying, sometimes shaking his head, Mohammed al-Amir Atta said today that his son and namesake was a shy man who could not possibly have sent a hijacked jet slicing through the first World Trade Center tower. 
 "Mohamed. Oh God! He is so decent, so shy and tender," said the father, a 65-year-old retired lawyer. "He was so gentle. I used to tell him, 'Toughen up, boy!' " 
 Mr. Atta stood on the concrete doorstep of his 11th-floor Cairo apartment today, alternating between rage at the picture being painted of his son as one of the attack's ringleaders and pride that his boy had done well abroad after graduating with average marks in architecture from Cairo University.
The elder Mr. Atta laced his conversation with fierce attacks against the United States, blasting it repeatedly for supporting Israel and for moral contagions like adultery and homosexual marriage. 
Some of his son's university friends in Germany have described Mohamed Atta as a sharply intelligent, strict, serious man who seemed to retreat socially, seeking solace from religion. 
The elder Mr. Atta said he never encouraged his children to be social, even avoiding the frequent contact between relatives so common in Egypt. Neighbors in their slightly tattered, middle-class neighborhood in Giza, just off the road to the Pyramids, confirmed that family members rarely said more than hello. 
"We keep our doors closed," Mr. Atta said, "and that is why my two daughters and my son are academically and morally excellent." 
He was outraged at reports that his son was seen drinking in a Florida bar on the eve of the attacks. 
"My son is a hijacker and drinks vodka!" yelled Mr. Atta, his face reddening to the roots of his white hair and his hands waving. "It is like accusing a decent, veiled religious girl of smuggling prostitutes into Egypt. It is nonsense, imagination!"
Indeed, two German students who spent from August to October 1995 in Cairo with Mr. Atta while completing an urban renewal field study said they did not drink alcohol near him because it made him uncomfortable. 
The elder Mr. Atta said that while his son was religious, that fervor did not extend to politics. 
"He was a donkey when it came to politics," his father said. "I advised him, like my father advised me, that politics equals hypocrisy."
The father said the only vaguely political remark he heard his son make was that the restoration of a mosque in Cairo's old city was too lavish, and the money could be better spent on job creation. 
But the two German classmates, Volker Hauth and Ralph Bodenstein, said that Mr. Atta, who left Egypt in 1993, spoke with increasing bitterness about what he saw as the autocratic government of President Hosni Mubarak and the small coterie of former army officers and of rich Egyptians gathered around him. The classmates said he called the ruling elite "the fat cats" and decried both their close ties to the United States and their suppression of religious and nongovernmental organizations. 
The entire restoration project around the old city gates, Bab al Nasr and Bab al Futuh, involved knocking down the homes and workshops of the poor. "It made him angry, he said it was a completely absurd way of developing the city, to try to make Disney World out of it," said Mr. Bodenstein, interviewed by telephone. 
Mr. Atta said he did not know many details of his son's life in the United States, other than that he thought he was going there for more education. The younger man was last in Egypt a year ago. 
If he was on the plane, and there were books left in a suitcase about flying, it was because he had a curious mind, the father said. Someone like Israel's intelligence agency had the capacity to organize such an attack, the father said. But his son, an urban planning architect, did not. 
"I do not believe my son did it; I am sure he is alive," the father said. "He was afraid of flying."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammed al-Atta, a lawyer in Cairo and the father of one of the hijacking suspects, expressed rage at the picture being drawn of his son. (Mohamed El-Dakhakhny for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (92%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICS (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TERRORISM (72%); FAMILY (72%); AIRLINES (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (68%); MARRIAGE (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MISSING PERSONS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (53%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (53%); JOB CREATION (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (50%) ;ATTA, MOHAMMED; ATTA, MOHAMMED AL-AMIR (FATHER OF SUSPECTED HIJACKER); MACFARQUHAR, NEIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



530 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE SPENDING; 
Consumer Spending Returning to Normal

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN with JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
In the shoe department at Marshall Field's at the Old Orchard Mall in Skokie, Ill., this weekend, Valerie Whelan teetered on her left foot as she pulled a black sandal with multicolored beads onto her right.
 "I know it must seem crazy that I am trying these shoes on right now," she said a bit abashedly, "but I don't know, it was something that I was going to do, so I am doing it." 
 Smoke may still be rising from the World Trade Center rubble at ground zero, but across the country many Americans, as business and political leaders have urged, are starting to return to their day-to-day routines. They are working, going to school -- and shopping. 
The nation's largest chains, including Wal-Mart Stores, Kmart and Sears, Roebuck & Company reported that spending patterns returned to near normal levels over the weekend.
But "normal is still not a great picture," said Michael P. Niemira, an economist with the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, who follows retailing. Mr. Niemira pointed out that consumer spending was starting to slow even before the terrorist attacks brought the nation to a collective stop last Tuesday.
And even a modest additional slowdown in spending is likely to have significant repercussions for an economy that was already dependent on consumers simply to remain afloat.
Over the weekend and into Monday, the news from shopping malls and retail districts suggested that Americans were ready for some relief from the news.
Everywhere outside of the Northeast, shoppers were back at the daily job of filling the larder and snapping up denim jackets and the like for back-to-school needs.
"Personally, I don't feel affected," said Amy Youngyeun, a junior from Northwestern University outside Chicago, who volunteered that she spent $130 in two hours Sunday on long-sleeved polo shirts from Express, among other purchases. "I still go to work every week and I still get my weekly paycheck."
James Lee, 70, from Chehalis, in north central Washington State, spoke for many as well when he said the disaster was not "going to affect our spending habits."
Over all, most merchants experienced somewhat weaker sales than during the previous weekend, but not as bad as feared. Things were worse, though, in New York, still reeling from the death and destruction in Lower Manhattan, and a few other major cities, like Atlanta and Los Angeles, where analysts said consumers are jittery about the threat of further terrorist attacks.
Still, while most Americans were out buying the goods that make everyday life possible, the disasters that hit Manhattan and Washington clearly raised concerns about long-term economic consequences.
There was an initial sharp drop last week of at least 35 percent in purchases of big-ticket items -- like televisions and furniture -- in major urban areas and a slightly less dramatic drop, of about 20 percent. in small- and medium-size cities, according to America's Research Service, which did a telephone survey of 5,000 consumers nationwide over the weekend.
The precipitous decline was due partly to shock and partly to the fact that "people were concerned about what would happens to their investments, their 401(k)'s," during the period when the stock market was closed, said C. Britt Beamer, chairman of the market research firm, which is based in Charleston, S.C.
At the Mall of Georgia, in Buford, Debby and Greg Schaffer said they had already cut back on spending before the attack. The events of the last week have strengthened their resolve to save more and pay down debt.
"We're just trying to prepare for what's ahead," said Mrs. Schaffer, a dental office manager. "Most people I know are cutting back." Her only purchases Sunday were supplies for refinishing an old piece of furniture. "I'm redoing something old instead of buying something new."
Tina Carter, who was also at the mall that afternoon, agreed. "Of course we are cutting back," she said. "We'd be foolish not to. I don't think anyone is in the mood for spending."
Ms. Carter -- who ventured out only to buy basic necessities at Target -- is particularly worried because the income from her job as a bartender depends totally on tips. Last week, the bar was nearly empty. Those few customers who ventured in were glued to the TV and not inclined to splurge. "I think everyone is concerned about spending money," she said. "Everyone is waiting to see what's going to happen."
Only a few types of purchases were positively affected by the disasters. Among them were books about New York with pictures of the twin towers, guns and American flags.
Some people in the malls reported that they were shopping as a kind of patriotic act. At the Big Kmart store in Louisville, Colo., Scott and Patti Hodgson said they were considering buying a bit more than usual. "I think it's a good idea to spend money right now," Mr. Hodgson, 42, said. "I might even buy stocks. It would help the economy if everybody bought just one share."
But according to America's Research Service, most Americans were not in the malls primarily to support their country; they were there because it was what they usually do. Still, it felt good to many people to have an escape from television.
At the Olive Garden restaurant in Plano, Tex., and at many restaurants around the country, few people felt like eating out after the attack. By Friday night traffic had picked up. But the mood was different, said Leo Karolczak, general manager of the Plano Olive Garden.
"People were quiet and very courteous," he said. "There were very few complaints. They were ready to get out of the house. They didn't want to normalize their life, but they want to get their mind off of it."
Cheryl Brown, at the Park Meadows Mall in suburban Denver, told The Associated Press that she was there not so much to buy anything in particular as for a break.
"We've been glued to the TV since Tuesday, and it was nice to get away, still understanding and praying for those involved in the attacks," she said. "You almost feel guilty about having fun and doing activities when people are dealing with such a horrendous attack."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Several days after the terrorist attacks, more people around the country are starting to shop again, along with other daily activities. Nancy and Garry Reznic stop in the Old Orchard Mall near Skokie, Ill. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. C6) Graph: "Too Stunned To Shop"Last Tuesday, on the day of the terrorist attacks, Americans stayed away from shopping malls in droves. Since then, business has bounced back but it remains down from last year. Graph tracks estimated visitors to U.S. shopping malls, in millions since the start of Semptember. (Source: RCT National Retail Traffic Index) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SHOE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (88%); TERRORISM (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); HIJACKING (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (93%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (69%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ;WAL-MART STORES INC; KMART CORP; SEARS ROEBUCK & CO 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (93%); WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE; BARNES, JULIAN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



531 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Price Index Up 0.1% 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Inflation was muted in August, kept in check by falling energy prices, the government said today in a report that could reassure the Federal Reserve Board that there is room for further interest rate cuts.
 The Labor Department's Consumer Price Index, the nation's broadest gauge of inflation, rose 0.1 percent in August after falling 0.3 percent in July. 
Economists had expected a 0.2 percent increase. 
 Excluding the volatile prices of food and energy, the index rose 0.2 percent, in line with forecasts, after an identical increase in July. Sung Won Sohn, the chief economist at Wells Fargo & Company, said the combined data showed weakening demand and no inflation concerns, making further rate cuts both likely and feasible.
"Inflation is just not an issue," he said. "With the economy softening, the inflation pressure will decelerate further. Consumer spending has been decelerating and will continue to do so in the near future." 
On Monday, the Fed cut interest rates by half a percentage point to help bolster consumer confidence. The world's major central banks followed suit, either on Monday or today.
The American consumer accounts for two-thirds of the country's economic activity and has kept the economy from contracting in recent months even though some sectors, most notably manufacturing, are in a recession.
Inflation was reined in by falling energy prices, which slipped 1.9 percent in August after a 5.6 percent decline in July. Gasoline prices fell 2.4 percent in August after an 11 percent decline in July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); RECESSION (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOOD PRICES (74%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (71%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



532 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE COMBAT; 
Scarcity of Afghanistan Targets Prompts U.S. to Change Strategy

BYLINE:  This article was reported and written by Michael R. Gordon, Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld bluntly acknowledged today that the difficulty in identifying bombing targets in Afghanistan was leading the Pentagon to develop a broader, more unconventional type of campaign -- leaving the door open to ground troops, including commando units.
 "Several countries have exhausted themselves pounding that country," said Mr. Rumsfeld, referring to Afghanistan. "There are not great things of value that are easy to deal with. And what we'll have to do is exactly what I said: use the full spectrum of our capabilities." 
 Mr. Rumsfeld did not commit the United States to sending ground forces into Afghanistan, but he has talked about the importance of using special operations forces in the fight against international terrorism. 
On Sunday, Mr. Rumsfeld said that the fight against terrorism would require a broad effort and that "a lot of it will be special operations."
The administration's consideration of military action beyond a classic air campaign like the ones the United States mounted in Iraq and Serbia reflects a recognition that the terrorists themselves are elusive, and that Afghanistan, which shelters them, is so impoverished that it offers a scarce set of targets. 
Critical to the administration's planning, therefore, are economic, political, diplomatic and intelligence measures, as well as possible ground forces, all of which would deprive Osama bin Laden, the Islamic militant suspected of masterminding the attacks on Sept. 11, of his sanctuary -- or as Mr. Rumsfeld put it today, "drain the swamp they live in."
President Bush met today with top national security advisers to review military options and diplomatic overtures, as Pentagon officials said the first of 35,000 reservists could be mobilized as early as Wednesday. 
Mr. Bush and his top advisers have raised expectations of killing or capturing terrorists. The president went so far as to indicate that he wanted Mr. bin Laden "dead or alive."
While the administration's stated goals, including going after all terrorist networks, are very ambitious, the mission presents a whole new range of military challenges. Bombing alone is unlikely to work for several reasons. 
Terrorists in Afghanistan have abandoned their training camps since last week's attacks in New York and Washington, making them hard to find. Intelligence officials also say that in recent years Mr. bin Laden and his operatives have relied more on couriers and face-to-face meetings than on cellphones, whose communication can be intercepted by spy satellites and ground sensors.
In a private Oval Office meeting with four senators last Thursday, even Mr. Bush belittled the idea of eliminating his nemesis, Mr. bin Laden, with Tomahawk cruise missiles alone, the military's weapon of choice in most operations since the Persian Gulf war. 
"What's the sense of sending $2 million missiles to hit a $10 tent that's empty?" Mr. Bush told the senators. 
And, as Mr. Rumsfeld indicated today, the Taliban's fixed targets are not all of great value, and smashing their interior or defense ministries or disrupting their energy grid might do little to force the government in Kabul, which hardly relies on modern command and control systems, to deliver Mr. bin Laden as Mr. Bush has demanded.
The United States could stage commando raids in Afghanistan from Pakistan or perhaps from valleys held by the Northern Alliance, the anti-Taliban force that still controls about 10 percent of Afghan territory. The administration could also reach unprecedented agreements with former Soviet republics in Central Asia, like Uzbekistan or Tajikistan, to mount operations from their territory. 
The military has two missions: getting the terrorists and punishing any government that shelters or sponsors them. The goal of ground troops presumably would not be a full-scale invasion and occupation, but raids by special forces to kidnap or kill terrorism suspects or to disrupt the ability of the Taliban to control Afghanistan.
But getting terrorists requires timely, accurate intelligence -- and luck. Before this crisis, the Clinton administration had classified plans to use missile strikes or to dispatch commandos to snatch Mr. bin Laden. Those special forces have been stationed in the Middle East ready to move on a moment's notice. "The gun has been cocked," a former official said. "We were waiting for the intelligence and never had it."
Even with hard intelligence, the window for action is frustratingly brief, as the Clinton administration learned in August 1998 when it fired more than 70 cruise missiles at terrorist training centers -- the Zhawar Kili Al-Badr training camp and its support complex.
The strike took place on a day that United States intelligence knew Mr. bin Laden was meeting with his chief operatives and the leadership of other terror organizations. But the meeting broke up several hours before the missiles smashed into the camps.
"If you took every terrorist in Afghanistan, you could not make a light brigade," said Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, who until a year ago headed the United States Central Command, which is responsible for military operations in the Middle East and Southwest Asia. "They are spread all over. They hide in mountains and caves. They do not lend themselves to being targeted." 
All those problems were confronted by the Clinton administration. "When we looked at Afghanistan before, the sense was we were going to bomb them up to the stone age," said one former Clinton administration official familiar with the planning of past military strikes against Mr. bin Laden's terrorist network. "There is just so little to attack. It is the most target-impoverished environment conceivable."
There are other military options, but they are complicated and entail risk to American fighters and could well result in casualties.
The United States could use the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance as a proxy ground force, but the group is not widely supported throughout Afghanistan, and has no more than 12,000 fighters under a command that is in flux. 
Its leader, Ahmed Shah Massoud, was gravely wounded by suicide assassins just days before the attacks in America and died on Saturday. It is not clear whether his killing had any link to the attacks on the United States that followed.
Faced with such difficulties, attacks on the terrorists and the Taliban themselves would have to be accompanied by efforts to cut off financing to the terrorists, including any revenue they derived from the sale of drugs.
"You need to go after the network that is collecting money, his investments in legitimate companies, the laundering of money, and the banks that look the other way," General Zinni said.
Afghanistan is unlikely to be the only target in the war against those nations who support terrorism. Mr. Rumsfeld said today that Al Qaeda, the terrorist network that Mr. bin Laden heads, may have activities in 50 to 60 countries, and that network is just one of many that President Bush has vowed to vanquish. 
In Afghanistan, one hope is that the movement of American forces into the region could force Mr. bin Laden to come out of hiding and seek another haven -- creating a target.
Punishing the Afghan government that harbors the terrorists presents a completely different challenge than planners faced during the Persian Gulf war. In that conflict, the first Bush administration picked hundreds of bombing targets in Iraq that successfully carved away at what Air Force planners dubbed Saddam Hussein's "centers of gravity." 
Military planners already have coordinates for a large number of targets across Afghanistan and in the capital, Kabul. They know the exact location of government ministries, of its police posts and army bases and airfields, of its power grids and communications lines. 
"Clearly, the Taliban have an organizational structure," said a Pentagon official. "They have a leadership. And there is some infrastructure that enables them to operate. But they are not like a nation state. It is not like going after Baghdad or Belgrade."

GRAPHIC: Map of Middle East highlighting military sites: Military sites and suspected bin Laden training sites in Afghanistan, and nearby military installations. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); AL-QAEDA (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); ESPIONAGE (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); GORDON, MICHAEL R; SHANKER, THOM; SCHMITT, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (79%); SERBIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (70%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



533 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Wartime Rhetoric 

 BODY:
Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill understood the power of words and put them to effective use as they rallied America and Britain during the bleakest hours of World War II. President Bush, who is waging a different kind of war, must also find the right rhetoric to lead the United States and a coalition of diverse nations in this unconventional battle. Inflating expectations, and shifting tone from day to day, will not serve Mr. Bush or the nation well. 
 Since last week's terrorist attacks, Mr. Bush has had moments of high eloquence, like his speech at the National Cathedral last Friday and his visit Monday to an Islamic center, at which he said that harassment of Muslim residents "will not stand in America." Other moments were less successful. The president appeared tentative in his first appearances after the attacks, and then overly bellicose on Monday, when he made his "wanted: dead or alive" remarks at the Pentagon. What the country needs from the president right now is consistency, in both message and tone. 
 Mr. Bush has a complicated set of roles to play. He must lift the spirits of Americans, direct the military effort against terrorists, and pull together an international alliance against nations that harbor them. Being diplomat, morale booster and commander in chief at the same time requires a careful balance in rhetoric. The American people want to feel that the president is tough and determined, the military needs to know he is smart and controlled, and the other countries want him to be prudent.
The "dead or alive" comment may have made the country feel better for a short period, but it was unsettling to leaders of other nations, some of whom have to reassure nervous and potentially restive populations that Washington is not planning an anti-Islamic campaign. Mr. Bush's comments may also create unrealistic expectations at home about what American military forces can do over the short run. Finding and capturing Osama bin Laden will be difficult without the cooperation of Afghanistan, and even the president may not know exactly how that can be accomplished. It is also unclear how many other terrorist leaders and networks must be put out of commission before terrorist threats are under control.
The hotter the rhetoric now, the harder President Bush will find it later if his better judgment winds up telling him to delay action, or to concentrate for a while on diplomatic and economic sanctions rather than military force. Keeping an even tone under current conditions will be difficult, but one of Mr. Bush's greatest talents as a politician is his ability to maintain a consistent message, even under extreme provocation. The country needs him to do that now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); RELIGION (75%); HIJACKING (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%) TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



534 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
StockMarkets Hold Steady a Day After the Big Sell-Off

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS with JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The United States stock market moved a little lower yesterday but still seemed to indicate that many traders were hoping the economy would start to recover relatively soon.
 "The market is acting today like everything is going to be O.K.," said Thomas C. van Leuven, an equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Chase. Some stocks that had fallen sharply on Monday, among them some airlines and retailers, bounced back a small amount. 
 "People were somewhat encouraged by the fact we did not melt down yesterday and there was no crisis atmosphere," said Thomas McManus, an equity strategist for Banc of America Securities. 
Trading was far quieter than on Monday, when American stock markets reopened after being closed since two hijacked jets hit and destroyed the World Trade Center and another struck the Pentagon. Then the major market gauges plunged by as much as 7 percent. 
Yesterday, they staged mild recoveries in the morning but gave up those gains in the afternoon, in part because hopes seemed to be fading for concessions from Afghanistan on surrendering Osama bin Laden, whom Washington has identified as the prime suspect in the attacks.
In trading around the world, Asian markets generally moved up yesterday as central banks in Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong joined the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank in cutting interest rates to try to support the world economy. The Bank of England became the last major central bank to lower rates, but the British stock market gave up some of the gains it had on Monday.
While American stocks generally avoided large declines yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 17.30 points, to 8,903.40, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dipping 6.03 points, to 1,032.74, the situation was worse in the Nasdaq stock market. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 24.47 points, or more than 1.5 percent, to 1,555.08. All three indexes are at their lowest levels since late 1998. 
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange settled back to nearly 1.7 billion shares after setting a record by trading almost 2.4 billion shares on Monday.
Some analysts found more disturbing the trends in two other markets, bonds and currencies. The dollar slipped against the euro, and bond prices sagged, pushing up long-term interest rates.
The weakness in the bond market represents an abrupt change from the market reaction late last week, when bond trading resumed. Then bond prices leaped, pushing down interest rates as investors sought safe investments.
The lure of safety has not vanished, but traders are coming to realize that there will be far more Treasuries than they had expected. On Monday, the Treasury canceled plans to buy back securities in the next two weeks.
"Last week completely changed the budget picture," said Ward McCarthy, managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research in Princeton, N.J., noting that the government will be spending far more money than had been expected, both to rebuild Lower Manhattan and the Pentagon and for military expenditures.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.72 percent, still below where it was before the attack but up from the 4.55 percent it fell to on Friday. 
Rising bond rates, if that trend continues, would work against the Federal Reserve's effort to stimulate the economy through lower interest rates. The Fed can directly affect short-term rates, but long-term rates determine how much corporations pay when they borrow in the bond market or how much individuals pay for mortgage loans.
The euro was worth 92.68 cents, up 0.3 percent from 92.44 cents on Monday, and the dollar declined 0.4 percent against the yen, to 117.23 yen from 117.73. Since the terrorist attack, the dollar is off 3.1 percent against both currencies. 
Since the dollar peaked earlier this year, it has lost 7.5 percent of its value against the yen and 9.7 percent against the euro.
The reversal could be a sign that investors are seeking another form of safety, that of keeping more of their money close to home. Because the United States runs a huge trade deficit, it requires a constant infusion of investments from abroad to balance the international accounts. 
"The weakening dollar suggests there may be a loss of appetite for dollar-denominated investments," said Douglas R. Cliggott, chief equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Chase.
Within the stock market, the trend of investment sentiment has been at least partly obscured since trading began Monday because of two unusual factors. The first was the patriotic pleas to buy stock, which appear to have led to substantial buying by individuals on Monday morning but have had less effect since then.
The second was the fact that the Securities and Exchange Commission relaxed the rules on stock repurchases by corporations. Numerous companies have announced plans for buybacks, and some have said they did so.
Stock buybacks were a prominent source of strength in the bull market of the 1990's, but the level has fallen drastically in recent months as corporate profits have deteriorated.
Some companies that are buying back stock now may not, in fact, feel comfortable spending the money. The American International Group, which on Monday announced that its board had approved the repurchase of up to 50 million shares, said yesterday that it was considering selling that many shares back to the public, perhaps through open market transactions.
"I've never seen a company buy stock in the market and turn around and immediately offer it to the public," said Mr. McManus of Banc of America Securities. Shares of A.I.G. fell 95 cents, to $70.05.
Airline stocks, which plunged Monday, recovered some of their losses as hopes increased for a federal aid package. Delta Air Lines gained $2.29, to $22.93; AMR added $2, to $20; and US Airways was up 24 cents, to $5.81. But Continental Airlines fell $2.33, to $17.72. The airline said it had missed a $70 million payment on two aircraft loans.
Many stocks that depend on a relatively strong economy also recovered somewhat, with Caterpillar up $1.02, to $45.71, and the DuPont Company gaining 91 cents, to $35.36.
But some companies that seem likely to be directly affected by a widely expected slowdown in tourism and air travel continued to fall. The Boeing Company was off $2.66, to $33.14; and American Express fell $2.87, to $27.38.
A spokesman for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said that the bond market functioned better yesterday. He said the problems of communications and settlement that had left some banks holding too much money and others scrambling for it had eased. He said that the Fed injected $30 billion into the financial system yesterday, which was down from $59 billion on Monday and $80 billion on Friday. 
Within the bond market, shorter-term securities, like two-year notes, have held up well. But longer-term securities have done less well. The 30-year bond has been especially hard hit because many investors thought it would be retired soon, which made paying a little premium to own these bonds worthwhile. But now that is unlikely any time soon. The yield on 30-year bonds has climbed to 5.44 percent, higher than it was before the attack.
The price of crude oil dropped 3.9 percent as the prospect of a global recession means that oil consumption will decline, easing pressure on prices. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for October delivery fell $1.11, to $27.70 a barrel. Oil stocks were weak, with Chevron down $2.46, to $87.76; and Phillips Petroleum off $2.94, to $55.65.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BONDS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CURRENCY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%) ;EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%) NORRIS, FLOYD; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (88%); TAIWAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



535 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Arafat Orders a Cease-Fire and Israel Pulls Back 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
The Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat instructed his security forces today to hold their fire even in self-defense, and Israel then said it would refrain from any offensive action, pulling its tanks and troops out of Palestinian-controlled territory. The moves could set the stage for the first truce talks here since midsummer.
 Speaking in Gaza City, Mr. Arafat said that he wanted to volunteer for the antiterror effort and that he had informed the Americans that he was ready to "put all our capabilities at their disposal." 
 In Washington, President Bush called the developments "a glimmer of hope," linking them to the attacks last week on the United States. "I hope in my heart of hearts that out of this evil comes good," he said. As part of his effort to recruit Arab nations to his antiterror campaign, Mr. Bush has been seeking both Palestinian participation in the alliance and progress toward peace here. 
Each side in the conflict harshly questioned the other's commitment to a cease-fire, but, shaken by the violence in New York and Washington, each also seemed eager to demonstrate its own.
Under American and European pressure, Mr. Arafat has issued an escalating series of calls since Friday to halt the fighting. Today's statement was by far his strongest, and by late tonight, Israeli tanks were withdrawing from positions they had taken up in the last week around the West Bank towns of Jenin and Jericho.
In a speech on Sunday, Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister, demanded that 48 hours of "absolute quiet" precede any peace talks. Ranaan Gissin, Mr. Sharon's spokesman, said tonight that Mr. Arafat should be judged only by results. "Arafat made a cease-fire with CNN," he said. "That's the easiest thing. CNN will not fire back." 
On the first day of Rosh Hashana, the Jewish New Year, it was a day of relative but not absolute quiet. The Israeli Army reported that a hand grenade was thrown at troops in Hebron, and that firefights erupted there and on the Gaza Strip. No injuries were reported in those incidents.
For weeks now, Shimon Peres, the Israeli foreign minister, has been seeking to meet with Mr. Arafat. He had planned to do so last Sunday night, but Mr. Sharon blocked him, insisting that all violence cease first.
But also on Sunday, Israeli and Palestinian officials disclosed today, Mr. Sharon dispatched his son, Omri Sharon, and Avi Gil, the senior aide to Mr. Peres, to meet with Mr. Arafat. They worked out today's swap of statements and gestures and agreed that a meeting would follow promptly, Mr. Peres said on Israeli television tonight.
While today's developments may enhance the chances of a meeting, they do not guarantee a breakthrough if one takes place. Mr. Arafat and Mr. Peres met in June and July, without much effect on the yearlong conflict here.
Mr. Sharon has said any such meeting should be confined to measures intended to ease economic hardship for Palestinians while increasing Israel's security. But the Palestinians would like to negotiate a broad range of differences. 
Saeb Erekat, the Palestinians' chief negotiator, called on Washington to dispatch an envoy immediately to broker talks between the two sides. Between Israelis and Palestinians, he said in a telephone interview, "the confidence level is below zero." 
Terje Roed-Larsen, the United Nations special envoy to the Middle East, met for hours with Mr. Arafat in recent days, pressing him to make a strong statement against violence. In his statement today, Mr. Arafat reiterated previous assurances -- including recognizing Israel's right to exist within secure boundaries. But he had not previously urged his security forces to use "maximum self-restraint" even if attacked.
Mr. Roed-Larsen said tonight that the attack on the United States, and Mr. Bush's plans for a new coalition, have cracked the negotiating stalemate. "This has changed the whole equation in the Middle East," he said in an interview. "What Arafat is now seeing is that there is a new alliance here, and that he can be a part of it."
The last time a President Bush assembled an international coalition, Mr. Arafat backed the wrong horse, supporting Saddam Hussein of Iraq during the gulf war. Mr. Arafat's readiness to join this new alliance is also not without risk to him. Arab nations have reacted coolly to plans that might entail violence against Muslims. Also, Mr. Arafat could alienate the Palestinian extremist groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad. The Associated Press reported tonight that Muslim clergymen linked to Hamas had issued an edict branding as traitors those who side with America against Muslims.
It has been a week of intense violence, nasty words, and quiet backroom negotiation in the Middle East, as the antagonists in the conflict have tried to find their diplomatic footing after last week's upheaval. 
Mr. Arafat, who condemned the attacks on Washington and New York, has been working overtime to repair the damage done by images broadcast internationally of some Palestinians celebrating the violence. But even as those images set back his cause, he found new influence with the Americans intent on rallying Arab support.
For the Israelis, the results have also been mixed. In his speech on Sunday, Mr. Sharon also volunteered for duty in the coalition. But the United States has signaled Israel to keep a low profile, as it did during the gulf war.
In an interview on Monday with the Arabic language network al-Jazeera, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said he saw no role for Israel in any military response to last week's attack. At the same time, the United States is seeking the participation of Syria, which for years has been on the State Department list of nations which it considers foster terror and which Mr. Sharon said should not be a member of any antiterror coalition.
Mr. Erekat, the chief negotiator for the Palestinians, said, "This is the second time in the last 10 years when American interests were seriously threatened, and the second time in 10 years that Israel, the strategic ally of the United States, the country that gets more aid than any country on earth, is also being kept again on the sidelines. They can't be part of the alliance. Once again it's proving that the Arab countries are more needed in such an alliance."
But Israeli officials said they well understood the American interest in soft-pedaling any Israeli participation. "It's not the most important thing that we should be on the bandstand at the victory parade," said Zalman Shoval, a close adviser to Mr. Sharon. "We are not going to force ourselves upon anyone. And our practical role in helping the effort -- this is going to be there, with or without being official members of the coalition." 
Mr. Shoval said that Israel was "certainly not going to be in any way a hindrance to the efforts of the administration to set up the coalition. Not only that, but we see in this fight led by the United States and its ultimate victory, certainly a top interest of Israel, being victims of terrorism so many times." He said that Mr. Sharon's willingness to permit a meeting testified to his eagerness to help the Americans. 
Such a meeting, he said, would provide a clear test of whether Mr. Arafat had put violence behind him. "The onus will be on him," he said, "and the world will know exactly where he stands."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Israeli police officer checked the documents of an Arab in the Old City of Jerusalem yesterday. (James Hill/The New York Times)(pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (88%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TERRORISM (74%); HIJACKING (74%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (62%); ROSH HASHANAH (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR; BENNET, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%) ISRAEL; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



536 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: In This Section 

 BODY:
 Expanding Detention Powers
The Bush administration announced a major expansion of its power to detain immigrants suspected of crimes. The rules, prompted by the terror attacks last week, would allow legal immigrants to be detained indefinitely during a national emergency. The Justice Department said it would continue to hold 75 immigrants arrested in connection with the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. A1

Legal experts, noting that when the nation's security was threatened in the past the courts had effectively ceded vast powers to the government to limit freedoms, said that new measures to fight terrorism might not receive a rigorous court review. B7

Sikhs Put on the Defensive
Sikhs in the United States, alarmed by a wave of violence and harassment, are finding themselves pressed to explain that their turbans and beards do not signify that they are followers of the Taliban and that they are not responsible for the terror attacks. A1

Rethinking Attack Strategy
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld acknowledged that difficulty in identifying bombing targets in Afghanistan was leading the Pentagon toward a broader, more unconventional campaign -- leaving the door open to commando raids. A1

Conditions for Cooperation
The Bush administration experienced its first significant difficulties in building a broad international coalition to support the use of military power against the terrorists behind the attacks. China, in particular, urged other nations to press Washington on setting conditions. A1

No Decision in Afghanistan
The Taliban rulers of Afghanistan postponed a response to the American demand that they hand over Osama bin Laden and top lieutenants. B5

Tens of thousands of Afghans were on the move, fearing that a week of speculation would soon give way to actual events, with American bombs plunging from the skies. B6

Airline Layoffs Mount
The airline industry, warning that it might lay off 100,000 people because of the terror attacks, won assurances of billions of dollars in financial help from Congress and the Bush administration, though details and conditions remained to be set. A1

United Airlines is expected to announce the layoff of 20,000 employees, or 20 percent of its work force. American and Northwest airlines are expected to announce cuts tomorrow. B2

Attacks' Economic Shock Wave
New York's $25 billion tourism industry is reeling, with the effects being felt especially by hotels, restaurants and theaters. Some experts fear the slump will be prolonged. A1

State economies are beginning to experience adverse effects from the terror attacks as well. Some states, already struggling in a slowing national economy, are considering dipping further into rainy day funds or making deeper cuts in budgets already stripped to the bone. B1

A Wider Plot Investigated
The federal authorities said that they were investigating the possibility that terrorists might have plotted to commandeer two additional commercial flights, both departing from Newark, on the day that the four used in the attacks were hijacked. B1

The Pentagon issued its first detailed chronology of its response to the hijackings as they happened. B11

Terror-Proofing Airliners
Aviation experts are weighing changes in aircraft design to try to keep terrorists from turning passenger planes into suicide missiles. B3

A Father's Denial
The father of Mohammed al-Amir Atta, who is accused of helping crash a hijacked jet into the World Trade Center, said in an interview in Egypt that his son could not have taken part in the operation. B4

Hope Fades for Any Survivors
Mayor Giuliani and other officials acknowledged that it was unlikely that anyone still buried in the rubble that was the World Trade Center was alive. More than 5,000 people are listed as missing since the attack eight days ago. B1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (77%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ARRESTS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); LODGING (67%); RESTAURANTS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); TOURISM (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



537 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AIRLINES; 
U.S. WIDENS POLICY ON DETAINING SUSPECTS; TROUBLED AIRLINES GET FEDERAL AID PLEDGE

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
The airline industry, which has already indicated that it will lay off 44,000 people in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks, won assurances of billions of dollars in financial help today from Congress and the Bush administration. But lawmakers said they had not settled on details of the package and suggested that the aid would come with conditions.
 Executives from the major airlines shuttled from the Transportation Department to the White House to Capitol Hill to plead for help in coping with the economic impact of the attacks, saying they expected the layoffs to reach 100,000. And the Boeing Company, whose fortunes are tied to the industry, said tonight that it would lay off 20,000 to 30,000 workers by the end of 2002 because of fewer orders for aircraft. Page B2. 
 Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta said he hoped to have a package of assistance ready early next week. Congressional leaders also vowed to act quickly but said the industry would not get all it wanted. 
Industry executives started the day seeking up to $24 billion to get their companies through the next year. They said they were requesting outright grants -- including an immediate infusion of $5 billion -- plus tax breaks, loans, loan guarantees and protection against some claims stemming from the destruction caused by the hijacked airplanes.
The airlines are suffering a cash squeeze because their operations were suspended for days and because they are overhauling their security systems. 
The airlines told the government that some carriers could be forced into bankruptcy within days and that without help from Washington much of the industry would be financially crippled within months. 
United Airlines is expected to announce on Wednesday that it will lay off 20,000 workers. Continental Airlines and US Airways plan to lay off a total of 23,000 people, and Midway Airlines said last week that it was shutting down for good. Northwest and American Airlines said they would announce layoffs on Thursday. 
After their meeting with airline executives on Capitol Hill, lawmakers said the industry had pared its request, dropping its call for a repeal of the 4.3 cent-a-gallon federal tax on jet fuel and for airlines to be allowed to keep the proceeds from ticket taxes.
"They've given up on that," said Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, the assistant Senate minority leader. "That's now off the table." 
Help for the airlines -- a vital component of the transportation system and the economy -- has emerged as one of the most pressing issues arising from the attacks last Tuesday on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
The focus on airlines was one element of a broader debate emerging in Washington over what steps the government should take to keep the attacks from severely damaging the economy. 
Leaders from both parties in Congress plan to discuss the need for a stimulus package with Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, on Wednesday.
Robert E. Rubin, who was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, President Bush's chief economic adviser, were also expected to attend the meeting.
Republicans in the House have been pressing for steps like a cut in the capital gains tax, and Democrats said they were open to a number of actions to bolster consumer and business confidence. 
The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said Mr. Bush would be open-minded about the need for steps to stimulate the economy because "the president recognizes that this is not an era of normal economics."
In developing an aid package for the airlines, administration officials and members of Congress were grappling with how to separate the financial effect of the terrorist attacks from the economic woes the industry had before last week. 
They were also debating whether the government should be given a greater say over schedules and air fares in return for federal help, and the degree to which the industry should be shielded from liability claims stemming from the crashes of the hijacked jetliners.
Speaking to reporters outside the White House, Leo Mullin, the chairman of Delta Air Lines, said the package could be as much as the $24 billion the industry has requested, but depending on how the economy and air travel rebound in coming months, it could be "perhaps less, and we all hope it will be less."
Several participants in the lawmakers' meeting with the airlines said the federal assistance was likely to be close to the $2.5 billion in direct aid and $12.5 billion in loan guarantees that the House considered but failed to pass last Friday night. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic majority leader, called the $15 billion package "a very good starting point." A senior Congressional aide said the airlines might get as much as the $5 billion in direct aid that they were requesting.
Congressional aides said that in the session with lawmakers Mr. Nickles, the senior Republican in the room, sharply questioned the industry on its figures, warning that the government would not bail it out from problems that existed before last week's terror attacks. 
Aides said Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, the House minority leader, wanted assurances that an aid package would also be used to ensure that laid-off workers receive unemployment compensation.
Participants in the meeting said legislators warned that protecting the airlines from liability claims might be complicated and that the issue might have to be put off while the remainder of the financial aid package was rushed through. Executives from United and American, the airlines whose planes were hijacked, argued strongly that they needed a signal from Congress that liability protection might be forthcoming.
The briefing papers given to lawmakers by the airlines said the industry had $9 billion in cash as of Aug. 31. By November, the industry said, it will have run through all of that money and need $1.1 billion more. By next June 30, the industry said, it would need an additional $15 billion.
Mr. Mullin of Delta said the government and the industry needed to work together to make sure that airlines did not become "a major economic casualty of the war" and, by laying off workers and disrupting commerce, a drag on the overall economy.
For three or four days last week, Mr. Mullin said, the industry had almost no revenue because of the grounding of all flights. With many people choosing not to travel by air, revenue is now running at 40 percent to 50 percent of normal, he said, a level the industry cannot sustain.
Mr. Mineta said the industry as a whole could be losing $200 million to $300 million a day.
"What we have now gotten is the kind of essential data that we need from the aviation industry to put together a package," Mr. Mineta said. "We will then go to the Hill and work with the Republicans and the Democrats and come up with a timetable in trying to get this done as quickly as possible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Airline executives meeting yesterday with Jane F. Garvey, head of the Federal Aviation Administration, and Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta, at right, included, from left, Donald J. Carty, American Airlines; Carol Hallett, Air Transport Association; Gordon M. Bethune, Continental Airlines; Richard Anderson, Northwest Airlines; Frederick Smith, FedEx; and James E. Goodwin, United Airlines. (Associated Press)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); IMMIGRATION (79%); DEPORTATION (79%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REFUGEES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); JET FUEL (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); FUEL TAX (66%) TERRORISM; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DEPORTATION; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSTITUTIONS 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); BOEING CO (84%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (90%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%); RICHARD H ANDERSON (58%) SHENON, PHILIP; TONER, ROBIN; ASHCROFT, JOHN (ATTY GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



538 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DIPLOMACY; 
World Leaders List Conditions On Cooperation

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER and JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
After a week of unconditional support from abroad, the Bush administration confronted its first significant difficulties today in building a broad international coalition to support using military power and other means against a still-faceless terror network rooted in Afghanistan and elsewhere.
 A procession of world leaders was either on the way or on the phone to Washington seeking to convince the White House that only a multilateral approach based on consultation, hard evidence and United Nations support would justify the use of military power in response to the devastating attacks last week. 
 Today, President Jiang Zemin of China telephoned Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and President Jacques Chirac of France as each prepared for meetings with President Bush. He admonished his Western counterparts to tell Mr. Bush that "any military action against terrorism" should be based on "irrefutable evidence and should aim at clear targets so as to avoid casualties to innocent people," according to official news reports from China. 
Mr. Jiang also telephoned President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, and although the two leaders denounced "terrorism in all its forms," they spoke just of cooperating with each other and the United Nations to "develop a mechanism for fighting terrorism," the reports said.
As the Bush administration sought through White House consultations and overseas missions to strengthen the sinews of an antiterror effort whose scale and objective remain unknown, a number of countries began to calculate the potential cost of their taking part, and to try to exact a price for it from the United States.
For a number of Middle Eastern countries, the price was straightforward. The United States has to become more deeply involved in ending the violence and in reinvigorating the Israeli-Palestinian peace effort. 
But it was clear that a convulsion in Israel, the West Bank or Gaza could threaten Washington's efforts to maintain support in moderate Arab countries, a problem that Mr. Bush's father faced in the 1991 coalition that defeated Iraq in Kuwait. 
"The people that we expect to work with closely in combating terrorism," a spokesman for the State Department, Richard A. Boucher, said, are "interested in the Israel-Palestinian situation," and their attitudes toward America's war on terrorism are "linked in people's minds" to America's commitment to Arab-Israeli peace. 
Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal of Saudi Arabia, is due to arrive on Wednesday with a large contingent of Saudi intelligence officers and their files on Osama bin Laden and his Al Qaeda network. 
But other potential American allies raised urgent economic and political agendas that officials said Washington was beginning to address. Pakistan, in exchange for whatever bases or rights to fly in its air space that it provides, would like an agreement to end 11 years of sanctions, to restore the flow of American arms and to reduce a punishing debt load. 
Russia, if it is called on, has a clear set of grievances over NATO expansion toward its borders and criticism of its military campaign in Chechnya. Foreign Minister Igor D. Ivanov arrives on Wednesday. Administration officials said they were eager to establish Moscow's price to open the northern corridor to Afghanistan through Tajikistan, a former Soviet republic.
A number of Russian generals have questioned whether Russia could join an American-led antiterror campaign whose operational objectives remain unclear. One high-ranking military officer told a newspaper, Vremya Novestei, that "fighting terrorists is like trying to rid oneself of roaches in a block of flats."
"You do it in one flat," the officer said, "and they go to another."
Nowhere was the sense of alarm over American plans more apparent than in the warning of one of America's staunchest Middle East allies, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. In remarks broadcast on Monday night, he implored the United States not to undertake military action that might kill innocent civilians, divide Christians against Muslims and further inflame attitudes against American policy in the region.
Mr. Mubarak, like Mr. Jiang, urged that "hard evidence" be the basis for any military action and that "countries not be punished" for the actions of "individuals." He called on the United Nations to organize an international convention against terrorism that would develop a common program of action for all countries.
His remarks were echoed by other leaders in the region where Washington has yet to establish a firm diplomatic beachhead in dealing with intractable and volatile conflicts. 
While Egypt and Jordan were both crucial allies in the 1991 coalition against President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, diplomats from both countries said they did not expect to be called on to provide bases or other direct military support. Both said they were providing intelligence information on terrorist groups to the Central Intelligence Agency under longstanding agreements.
Beneath the veneer of solidarity and support in Europe, misgivings can be heard about how Mr. Bush plans to proceed. Germany has repeatedly called for a multilateral approach to the problem and warned against America's going it alone. 
Speaking at the White House today, Mr. Chirac pointedly declined to accept Mr. Bush's characterization of the fight against terrorism as a war. "I don't know whether we should use the word 'war,' " the French leader said.
Diplomats noted that Mr. Bush sent a high-level State Department envoy, John R. Bolton, to Moscow on Monday to push forward on American missile defense plans, even though a decision by Mr. Bush to withdraw unilaterally from the Antiballistic Missile Treaty of 1972 would raise questions of a return to a "go it alone" ethos in international affairs.
President Bush's father last week seemed to be the first to declare dead the sort of unilateralism that prevailed in the administration's early months. He told a Boston audience, "Just as Pearl Harbor awakened this country from the notion that we could somehow avoid the call to duty and defend freedom in Europe and Asia in World War II, so, too, should this most recent surprise attack erase the concept in some quarters that America can somehow go it alone in the fight against terrorism or in anything else for that matter." 
No one has suggested, least of all the former president, that his statement represented criticism of his son or the current administration. But it seemed an unmistakable effort by the father to assert that the son was breaking with the recent past.
If policy is changing, nobody seems quite sure where it is heading. Just what Mr. Bush, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Vice President Dick Cheney meant when they indicated that harboring terrorists would be a casus belli in the fight against terrorism remained unclear. 
In Moscow, an influential parliamentarian, Aleksei G. Arbatov, said although the consensus there was "total moral support" for the United States and the struggle against terrorism, there also existed a strong humanitarian concern "not to resort to massive strikes, to nonselective actions which are unjustified from the moral point of view, to avenge the death of thousands of innocent people with the deaths of tens of thousands of other innocent people."
Karl Kaiser, a foreign policy expert in Germany, said the "experience of the first months of the administration caused a great deal of concern in Europe about unilateralism."
"However," Mr. Kaiser said, "something rather extraordinary has happened, and the reaction of the administration thus far, contrary to some fears that existed, was so different, so cautious and stressing the need to act with others." As a result, Mr. Kaiser suggested that at least for now "the image of the cowboy shooting from the hip is gone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jacques Chirac of France at his meeting yesterday with President Bush in the Oval Office. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (86%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%); TONY BLAIR (54%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E; PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); KUWAIT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; CHINA; FRANCE; RUSSIA; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



539 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Both Sides Make Moves Toward Peace In Mideast
Yasir Arafat instructed his Palestinian security forces to hold their fire even in self-defense, and Israel forswore all offensive action and pulled its tanks and troops out of Palestinian-controlled territory, possibly setting the stage for the first truce talks since midsummer. Mr. Arafat also said he wanted to volunteer for the American-led anti-terror effort. A1

Denial of I.R.A. Role in Colombia
Sinn Fein, the political ally of the Irish Republican Army, turned aside fresh complaints from the Bush administration about the arrests of I.R.A. terror suspects in Colombia, saying the party "had no case to answer on this issue." A7

Bush to Meet Indonesia Leader
President Megawati Sukarnoputri, who leads the most populous Muslim nation, is to meet President Bush in Washington today. Both leaders share concern over the threat of violence by militant Islamic groups. Mrs. Megawati's visit has been criticized by Muslim extremists. A9

Mass Grave in Belgrade
Serbian investigators have found 269 bodies in the biggest of five mass graves discovered since the downfall of Slobodan Milosevic, the Belgrade District Court said. The graves are believed to contain victims of the Kosovo conflict. A5

Disarming in Macedonia
Ethnic Albanian rebels, reassured by plans for a Western security presence, have told NATO that they will turn in their remaining guns, even though Parliament has yet to strengthen civil rights. Both sides had agreed to a Sept. 28 deadline for amending the Constitution to give ethnic Albanians greater rights. A5

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A12-18

Democrats Ease Limits On Missile Shield Testing
Senate Democrats, seeking to avoid a partisan debate after last week's terror attacks, agreed to withdraw a budget provision that would have restricted certain kinds of spending on missile defense. One restriction would have required the administration to seek Congressional approval to spend money on activities that would violate the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. A12

Bush Nominee Withdraws
A Consumer Product Safety commissioner, Mary Sheila Gall, asked President Bush to withdraw her nomination to lead the agency. Democrats have said Ms. Gall, a Republican, too often favors business over consumer safety, and last month the Senate Commerce Committee voted, 12-11 along party lines, against her nomination. A18

A Belated Tax Break
Some taxpayers who did not qualify for a rebate check this summer will get 2001 tax relief when they file income tax returns next year, according to a letter from leading members of Congress to the I.R.S. (AP)

Mistrial in Lab Fraud Case
A mistrial was declared in Beckley, W.Va., after a jury deadlocked in the case of a former chemist in the state crime laboratory, who was accused of faking test results used in trials. The prosecutor said he wanted to retry the case against the chemist, Fred Zain. A18

SCIENCE/HEALTH

An Overlooked Artery Disease
Peripheral arterial disease, a narrowing of arteries in the legs and sometimes the arms that is strongly linked to heart attacks and strokes, is underdiagnosed and undertreated despite availability of a simple test for detecting it, a study said. A13

New Approach on Drug Costs
The Bush administration approved an innovative Florida program to lower prescription drug costs for people on Medicaid and Medicare. Among the provisions is one that requires drug makers to provide discounts on their products in exchange for placement on a list of preferred drugs for Medicaid recipients. A14

NEW YORK/REGION A20-23

Trash Transfer Plan Is Postponed
New York City's plan to move most of its residential trash out of the region by rail was postponed. New Jersey officials say Mayor John T. Gregorio of Linden might have broken state ethics rules when he helped broker a deal to build a facility in Linden where New York's trash would be moved from barges to rail cars. A20

Campaigns at a Standstill
From the mayor's race to the contests for City Council, what was once one of the most crowded, chaotic elections in New York's history has practically ground to a halt before Tuesday's primary. A20

Synagogues Are Packed
Rosh Hashana services for the Jewish New Year were held amid the ashes of the World Trade Center, as they were all over the city, where Jews sought to make some sense of a senseless week. A23

Crime Reports Drop
With New York City's attention fixed on the worst attack in its history, other crime news has fallen by the wayside. But it was nonetheless remarkable that a signed Picasso could be reported stolen in broad daylight. A20

EDUCATION A24

DINING F1-10

ARTS E1-8

Hard Times on Broadway
Many of Broadway's leading producers and union representatives were scrambling to make concessions and cut costs to help mend an industry imperiled by plunging ticket sales and a lack of tourist dollars after last week's terrorist attacks. E1

SPORTS D1-8

N.F.L. to Make Up Games
The league will play its full 16-game regular season schedule. But issues concerning locked-out officials and the playoffs remain unsettled. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Longer-Lasting Anemia Drug
Amgen said it had received approval from the Food and Drug Administration for a new longer-lasting version of its top-selling anemia drug that requires fewer injections. The approval opens new markets for Amgen. C9

Layoffs Loom for Honeywell
Honeywell International said it would not meet analysts' earnings estimates and planned to cut more jobs. It said it expected airlines to reduce purchases of avionics and cockpit control equipment. C13

Consumer Price Index Up
Inflation was muted in August, kept in check by falling energy prices, the government said in a report that could reassure the Federal Reserve Board that there is room for further interest rate cuts. C13

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES C14-15

Samuel Z. Arkoff
A low-budget-movie mogul who enticed two generations of teenagers into drive-ins with movies like "I Was a Teenage Werewolf" and "Wild in the Streets," he was 83. C14

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Wartime rhetoric; rescuing the airlines; a new Election Day.

Columnists: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E2
Weather D8
TV Listings E7

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); MISTRIAL (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); GENOCIDE (88%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (86%); TAX RELIEF (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); FORENSICS (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); TEST LABORATORIES (68%); RELIGION (68%); BUDGETS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); INCOME TAX (64%); APPROVALS (62%); PRODUCT SAFETY (61%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); SALES REBATES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); SINN FEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); SERBIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



540 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MULLAHS; 
Adding Demands, Afghan Leaders Show Little Willingness to Give Up bin Laden

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Hard-line Islamic clerics who control Afghanistan's Taliban government today postponed for at least another 24 hours a final response to the American demand that they hand over Osama bin Laden and top lieutenants in his terrorist organization, Al Qaeda.
 At the same time, they set new conditions for future American support to Taliban rule in Afghanistan that made a peaceful end to the crisis seem increasingly unlikely. Their demands included diplomatic recognition, a cutoff of all support for the Taliban's opponents and a resumption of economic aid. 
 After a second meeting with the Taliban's elusive leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, high-ranking military officers from Pakistan flew home from two days of negotiations in Kandahar and Kabul and told associates in Islamabad that there were conflicting attitudes that made the outcome somewhat uncertain. 
On balance, though, the officers said Taliban hard-liners seemed likely to prevail in their refusal to give up Mr. bin Laden, whatever the risk. According to an account relayed by the officers after their return, they bluntly warned Mullah Omar and other high-ranking clerics about the readiness of the United States to use its military power to settle the matter, if necessary. But the Taliban leaders remained obdurate, even serene.
"You want to please America, and I want only to please God," Mullah Omar, a one-eyed veteran of the Muslim guerrilla struggle against the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan in the 1980's, said as he bade farewell to the Pakistani officers, according to this account.
By stretching out the deliberations, the Taliban leaders appeared to be hoping that events outside Afghanistan would evolve in ways that would frustrate President Bush in his repeatedly stated intention of capturing or killing Mr. bin Laden for the part American investigators believe he played in the attacks on the United States last week. 
The Taliban's hopes seemed to rest mainly with Pakistan, identified by the Bush administration as a vital base for any American military operation. Events today brought new signs that Pakistan's involvement could set off a major domestic crisis.
Pakistan's military ruler, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, who has promised "full support" to an American military operation, faced a mounting challenge on two fronts. Along Pakistan's borders with Afghanistan, relief officials reported that fears of a military showdown had set off a "mass exodus" from Afghanistan's Taliban-controlled cities.
In another development that threatened the stability of this Muslim nation of 140 million people, a hard-line Islamic cleric in Karachi who condemned the terrorist attacks in the United States as "wrong" for killing innocent people changed tack abruptly and issued a religious decree, or fatwa, calling for a "holy war" against an American military operation from Pakistan and against General Musharraf.
"It is un-Islamic for any Muslim country or any Muslim armed forces to be part of any military expedition launched against the Islamic Emirate of Pakistan," Mufti Nizamuddin Shamzai said. Mr. Shamzai leads a powerful sect that propagates deobandism, a belief that has inspired modern revivals of Islamic fundamentalism.
But the Taliban are a complex movement that joins simple village clerics and lifelong students of the Koran like Mr. Omar with more worldly officials and military men, some of them people who served in the communist government that ruled Afghanistan under Soviet occupation in the 1980's. It is split into hard-line factions and others more inclined to compromise.
Members of Pakistan's delegation said they did not rule out a last-minute change of mind as these groups grappled with the decision before them. At least some Taliban officials, the officers said, seemed aware of the devastating price likely to be paid by Afghanistan, and by the Taliban leaders, if the crisis slides into a military showdown.
At no point in the discussions, it seems, did the Taliban suggest that they were not in a position to hand over Mr. bin Laden if they chose to do so. His whereabouts seems to be no secret to them.
The meetings with the Taliban's religious leaders began on Monday amid the high mud walls and battlements of Kandahar, in southern Afghanistan, then moved overnight to Kabul, 300 miles away by air, where the visiting officers met with the government's senior officials before resuming this afternoon with the meeting Mullah Omar in Kandahar.
In their travels, the visitors saw the Taliban's two faces.
In Kandahar, the Taliban's religious headquarters, Mullah Omar surrounds himself with scores of bushy-bearded clerics like himself, many of them wounded veterans of the Muslim guerrilla struggle against the Russians.
Kabul, fought over by foreign armies for 3,000 years, is a center of political intrigue. Top Taliban officials in Kabul, most of them Muslim clerics with a reputation for having a firmer grasp of realities outside Afghanistan than their counterparts in Kandahar, tend to be more pragmatic. Members of the Pakistan delegation, who went straight from Islamabad airport to report to General Musharraf, told associates in the Pakistan capital they had been told by the Taliban that the final decision on Mr. bin Laden remained with a shura, a council of high Muslim clerics, some from Kandahar and some from Kabul.
That meeting was to start today, but the Taliban announced that it had been set back to Wednesday and possibly later. A Wednesday meeting would leave the clerics one day to meet a 72-hour deadline for a decision that the Pakistan officers carried with them on Monday.
As outlined by the Taliban leaders, the concessions they seek would amount to the rest of the world, and especially the United States, ending all forms of isolation for the Taliban. Even then, the accounts given in Islamabad suggested, the Taliban's offer would not bring Mr. bin Laden to the United States, but to only another Islamic country, not necessarily Pakistan, that was unspecified in the Taliban demands.
Taken together, officials in Islamabad said, the conditions appeared intended less for serious negotiations than to gain time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Armed members of an elite Pakistani police unit stood watch in Rawalpindi yesterday as demonstrators denounced their government's cooperation with American anti-terrorism efforts. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); TALIBAN (92%); TERRORISM (92%); AL-QAEDA (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); MISSING PERSONS (62%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (95%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) ;OMAR, MOHAMMED (MULLAH); BIN LADEN, OSAMA; BURNS, JOHN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001 



541 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: CALENDAR 

 BODY:
Design in Four Centuries
Japan Society Gallery, 333 East 47th Street; (212) 832-1155.
 "Traditional Japanese Design: Five Tastes," an exhibition of 140 objects including lacquered items, ceramics, baskets and textiles, will be at the society from Wednesday through Jan. 6. The exhibition will look at antiquities for the origins of design in Japan, and will examine styles that developed in the 16th century. The exhibition includes simply designed bowls, coats and kimonos; tea ceremony bowls and utensils that reflect a natural, austere aesthetic; boldly decorated furniture and swords; elegant lacquered boxes; and clothing. 
 On Oct. 1 at 6:30 p.m., there will be a lecture by Michael Dunn, the curator of the exhibition. Fee, $10; members and those 60 and older, $8; students, $5.
Open Tuesday through Friday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is by contribution of $5; students and those 60 and older, $3.

Arts Open House
92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue; (212) 996-1100.
The art, music and dance schools will hold an open house on Sunday to introduce their education programs. Art and music instructors will be on hand from noon to 2 p.m., and sample dance classes will be offered from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Arts classes are offered for children, teenagers and adults. A brochure is available by calling.

Gardens and Landscapes
New York Botanical Garden; (718) 817-8747.
The annual landscape design lecture series will take place starting Oct. 1 at the Urban Center, 457 Madison Avenue (50th Street). This year's series will feature four landscape designers. Marc Peter Keane will speak about Japanese gardens on Oct. 1; Joe Brown will look at urban gardens on Oct. 15; Mary Riley Smith will talk about designing gardens for urban backyards and terraces as well as country sites on Oct. 22, and Thorbjorn Andersson will discuss gardens in Sweden on Oct. 29. Reservations are required for the series. The fee is $65; members, $59; single lectures, if available, $18; $16.

Highway for a Modern World
New Jersey Historical Society, 52 Park Place (across from Military Park), Newark; (973) 596-8500.
"What Exit? New Jersey and Its Turnpike," an exhibition of photographs, maps, models, souvenirs and even a table and chairs from the Howard Johnson's restaurant chain, which operated eateries at the original 11 rest stops, will be part of an exhibition about the 148-mile toll road. It will be at the society from Wednesday through Aug. 3, 2002.
The turnpike, which has shaped economic and cultural life in New Jersey for 50 years, was one of the first limited-access roads in the United States. It featured straightened curves, flattened hills and a sleek, functional design for its toll plazas and the restaurants and gas stations at the service areas. Open Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. No charge.

About the Calendar
In the aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Center, some events listed in the Calendar may have been canceled or postponed. Readers are advised to telephone the sponsors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); GARDENING (86%); RESTAURANTS (84%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (79%); HISTORY (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (77%); DANCE EDUCATION (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); TEXTILES (72%); DANCE (72%); CHILDREN (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); MUSIC (66%); HISTORIC SITES (66%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (55%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (52%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); SWEDEN (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



542 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE ART; 
Thinking About Gadgets For a More Sober World

BYLINE:  By David Pogue; E-mail: Pogue@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN the short term, last week's terrorist attacks had the same effect in the personal-technology business as they had in every other walk of life: they changed our priorities.
 Apple canceled its Expo 2001 in Paris next week. Business-as-usual evaporated as Oracle, Compaq, Sun and many others mourned the loss of employees who were aboard the hijacked planes or in the World Trade Center. These days, the few press releases still sent to technology reviewers typically begin: "If this is a painful time for you, please disregard this message and know that our thoughts are with you." 
 Of course, predicting the future of technology is a fool's game under the best of circumstances. But it seems safe to say that the changes in the technology landscape are likely to be long-lasting and profound. 
Suddenly, we live in a more serious world. As we shop for electronics in the coming months -- if we do so at all -- it is likely that we'll look for staples, not frills. We want utility in our gear, not flash. On a personal level, as we reconsider life's priorities, many of us may find less appeal in electronics designed to let us to keep working even when we're at home after hours.
Of course, as the most prominent victim of the last year's economic downturn, the tech industry had already sobered up quite a bit. But last week's events may have been the final chapter in the story of America's era of turbocharged innovation, the giddy, high-flying decade of technology for its own sake. Sony's $1,500 Aibo robot dog may be the last of its breed.
In the more pragmatic product lines that remain, the particulars of last week's events may reshape the technology industry in surprising ways. The role of cellphones is a prominent example. Calls made by the passengers on the hijacked planes provided the only insight we may ever have into what took place in the air. Those calls from the planes also afforded a few seconds to exchange last words with loved ones -- not much solace, but something closer to closure than they would have had otherwise. 
Cellphones played a starring role on the ground, too. In innumerable cases they were the link that allowed those who escaped the attacks to get word to family and colleagues. And while rescue workers have not located survivors under the rubble by tracing their cellphone signals, the possibility gave them hope in the first few days after the blast. 
Last week, we saw the cellphone in a new light, less a yuppie status symbol than a vital piece of personal-security equipment. For the foreseeable future, society will surely set aside some of its traditional resentment of cellphones and the people who use them in public. Don't be surprised if a national cellphone boomlet ensues, complete with a resurgence of low-cost plans designed for emergency use only. 
If you could buy shares in the Internet, its stock would surely be going up, too. In the hours after the plane crashes, it held up -- slowed but steady -- under a torrent of Web and e-mail traffic, serving as a national conduit for news, discussion and emotion. After the buildings were hit but before they collapsed, e-mail also carried the last words of several who worked inside. 
Last week's events established just how beautifully the Internet's underlying design holds up more than three decades after it was conceived. Still, the Internet is not invincible. First of all, most of us still connect to the Net over ordinary phone lines, a system that proved far more vulnerable last week, and the day when we all connect wirelessly is still years away. Second, the Internet remains exposed to software weapons like viruses and the malicious attacks known as denial of service, a wave of which crippled some e-commerce sites early last year. Last week's events should inspire renewed efforts to shore up this communications lifeline. 
As companies at the epicenter of the New York attacks struggled to restore operations, the Internet again proved crucial. Big businesses invariably transmit daily backups of their data files to secure locations in other parts of the country over the Internet. Their computer-system administrators follow such routines more from fear of small fires or sprinkler-system malfunctions than suicidal terrorists, but no matter: thanks to the backups, enterprises at the heart of the country's financial system are back in business.
Their stories may serve as a grim, worst-case reminder of the value of backups, especially the offsite variety, for individuals and smaller companies, too. Web-based companies that offer just such a service may soon see a spike in subscriptions. (Since the dot-com bubble burst, only a few free Web-based 20-megabyte personal backup "disks," like Apple's iDisk, are still operating. Most are fee-based, automatic-backup systems with much higher capacity limits, like @Backup (www.backup.com) and SystemSafe by NetMass (www.systemrestore.com). 
Americans' newfound fear of flying will have an impact on the technology world, too. Suddenly it may not always seem necessary to fly halfway across the country to close a deal or take a meeting. As more business people become infrequent flyers, videoconferencing equipment -- or even Web-based videoconferencing services like WebEx
.com, PlaceWare.com and Centra.com -- may become increasingly attractive substitutes. Such virtual meeting places are also far less expensive than flying, a point that will have growing importance if the tech industry's fortunes continue to shrivel.
Fear is likely to play a part, too, in a nationwide re-evaluation of the privacy debate. Before Sept. 11, the public outcry for privacy had become almost deafening. For many people, eavesdropping technologies like the government's Carnivore software for screening e-mail conjured images of snoopers in Washington reading our mail and tracking our movements online. Privacy advocates have also fought the E-911 program, proposed by the Federal Communications Commission, which would make it possible for emergency personnel to trace cellular 911 calls to within a few feet.
But everything is different now. Already Attorney General John Ashcroft is pressing Congress to adopt several proposals that would give law enforcement officials greater surveillance freedom. Security experts are even proposing that every American carry a secure ID card, complete with embedded computer chip. 
We may still resent the collection of personal information by companies and Web sites. But since last week, many Americans appear more willing, at least in the short term, to accept greater intrusions from government agencies in exchange for greater security. 
Even an E-911 system would not have saved many lives last week -- there were, alas, few survivors to locate, and short-lived cellphone batteries would have precluded such efforts after a few days anyway. But it's easy to see how valuable such a system might be. 
A new age began on Sept. 11, technologically and otherwise. No, the coming months and years probably won't bring us quite the same flood of over-the-top technological innovation. For some time to come, the industry won't have the money or the drive to develop the kinds of crazy devices -- underwater DVD players, combination phone-cameras, Internet-enabled microwaves -- that once spiced up our mail-order catalogs.
But that's all right. Most people figured out which technologies matter long ago. In these days of shifting priorities, what matters is the phone, the computer, the Internet. These are the machines that connect us rather than distract us, serve as tools instead of toys, and in the harrowing days since tragedy struck, have made it possible for the people in this country and others to watch, and grieve, together.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); HIJACKING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AIRLINES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MISSING PERSONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

PERSON: POGUE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (88%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



543 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Two Nations Cut Interest Rates 

 BODY:
Following the lead of the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, the central banks of England and Japan and others, the monetary authorities of South Korea and New Zealand lowered their benchmark short-term interest rates yesterday, joining in a worldwide effort to forestall recession and reassure financial markets after the terror attacks in the United States last week.
 The Bank of Korea, which never before reduced interest rates by more than a quarter-point in one move, reduced its overnight call rate by half a percentage point to 4 percent, the lowest in the bank's history. 
 The action came after an emergency meeting of the bank's monetary policy committee.
Chon Chol Hwan, the bank's governor, said the main motive for the reduction was to reduce the shock of last week's events on an economy already slowing drastically because of widening slumps in the two largest markets for Korean products, Japan and the United States.
In Wellington, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand also made a half-point move, reducing its benchmark overnight cash rate target to 5.25 percent, "primarily because of recent tragic events in the United States" and the threat that a global economic slowdown would worsen in their aftermath, according to the bank's governor, Don Brash.
The bank acted between regular policy meetings "as a precaution," Mr. Brash said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TRENDS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); BANK OF KOREA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%) BANK OF KOREA; RESERVE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (57%) NEW ZEALAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (88%) SOUTH KOREA; NEW ZEALAND

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



544 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Japan Learns Yet Again How Tied It Is to Trade 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Shock waves from the terror attacks in the United States are reverberating in unexpected ways through Japan, Asia's largest economy.
 After seeing the world air transportation system thrown into disruption and confusion after hijackers turned four American jetliners into missiles, Japan is rapidly realizing just how heavily its economy depends on airplanes. 
 For electronics exporters, hopes for a good end to a bad year are foundering on gloomy predictions of a tight-walleted American Christmas. And in the political sphere, the sense of a world in crisis is pumping new life into Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's faltering program for free-market economic restructuring. 
Surrounded by the sea, Japan has for decades had an acute awareness of its dependence on shipborne commerce, especially the lifeline of oil and liquefied gas tankers that bring the country nearly all its energy from abroad. But the country woke up last week to the fact that aircraft, not ships, carried 40 percent of the country's trade last year with the United States -- 11,000 parcels and 360,000 pieces of mail daily, or $76 billion worth of goods a year.
Belying the image of Japan as a self-sufficient trading fortress, the nation now imports 30 percent of its medicines and 60 percent of its food. Much of it travels by air.
When service across the Pacific was suspended for up to five days, consumers saw immediate effects: the wholesale price of Boston tuna doubled, for example, and California strawberries vanished from supermarkets.
Japanese industry, whose early adoption of just-in-time inventory methods gave it a big edge in efficiency in the 1980's, also found itself immediately smarting from the air shutdown. With no semiconductors or car parts crossing the ocean by air, factories on both sides of the Pacific had to halt production lines. 
Japan's two leading carriers, Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways, each derive about one third of their income from trans-Pacific routes. Both companies' stocks fell sharply after the attacks, as did airline stocks around the world. All Nippon said it lost $2.5 million in the five days of disruption. 
Even going on vacation tends to put the Japanese, more than most nationalities, on international flights. For every American who visits Japan, four Japanese visit America, and the flow of traffic to Southeast Asia and other regions can be even more lopsided. Those tourists are turning skittish and staying home, if sharp falls in airline and tour bookings are any guide, and the economic pain will be felt as much in destinations like Hawaii and San Francisco as it will in Japan.
For Japanese exporters, the big question is whether Americans will react to the threat of war and terrorist reprisals by snapping shut their pocketbooks. 
"We still don't know if people will be having a happy Christmas or not," said Yoshiko Furukawa, spokesman for Sony Computer Entertainment, which is shipping PlayStation 2 units to the United States for holiday sales. Matsushita Electric Industrial, which like many consumer electronics companies derives two-thirds of its American sales between Thanksgiving and Christmas, voiced similar concerns. 
Last week, Japanese automakers suffered sporadic production slowdowns, but the real fear is that the American consumer will hunker down for the fall. "We will probably have to revise U.S. plans, but I don't know when or how at the moment," Hiroyuki Yoshino, president of Honda Motor, said at a news conference Tuesday. "There are fewer people visiting our dealers in New York and the Washington, D.C., area."
The timing of these blows to Japan's economy could hardly be worse, coming as the country had already slipped into recession. In a dreary drum roll of statistics, Japanese industrial production in July dropped to 1994 levels. Industrial electricity use was down 4.5 percent in August from August of last year, and steel production was down 5.4 percent.
"If the U.S. recovery is now delayed until the first half of next year, that means that Japan's recovery will also be delayed," Toyoo Gyoten, president of the Institute for International Affairs, a private research group, predicted today. "There is now a broadly shared sense of urgency and crisis about the medium and long-term future of the economy."
In July 2001, Japan's trade surplus was half the size it was in July 2000, and though its surplus with the United States grew in July, it was mainly because Japan's shrinking economy bought 14 percent fewer goods from America than before. Mamoru Yamazaki, an economist at Barclays Capital Securities, predicts that because of the attacks Japanese exports will fall at least 10 percent in the fourth quarter. Private economists foresee a 1 percent contraction in the Japanese economy this year.
Harder on the public psyche has been the plunge of the Nikkei 225 stock index below 10,000 for the first time in 18 years. The bombings "pushed the Japanese stock index into a scary place psychologically," said Paul Sheard, chief Asia economist at Lehman Brothers. The index closed up 2.7 percent today, to 9,939.60.
But though the crisis diverted the Bush administration's attention from Japan's immense mountain of bad loans, Japanese leaders seem finally to be focusing on the issue. 
The official estimate of the amount banks are owed by debtors who cannot pay has risen to $150 billion, and the value of the collateral underlying many of the loans -- stocks and real estate -- has been dwindling. Commercial land in Tokyo now sells for about one-sixth what it was worth at the peak in 1990, and is still falling -- down 6.6 percent in July from a year earlier. 
For years, Japan has tried to prop up the economy with public works projects, to the point that 10 percent of the labor force works in construction. But Mr. Koizumi seems to be resisting pressure to throw more money into infrastructure projects. Similarly, his resolve to avoid bailing out the banks by buying bad loans from them at book value has grown.
In a wide-ranging meeting with foreign reporters, Mr. Koizumi vowed to hold the line on public spending, to move ahead with deregulation and to try to cut the bad- loan overhang significantly during the next three years.
"Just the fact that we are restraining the public budget is reform," he said. "Unless this symptom of addiction to debt is cured, we cannot hope for revitalization of the Japanese economy."
With a sense of crisis already gripping Japan's parliament because of the sudden war footing in the United States, Mr. Koizumi's ministers have sharpened the picture, warning of more unemployment and more hardship before the economy turns around.
Mr. Koizumi hopes to use the new air of urgency to push through privatization and deregulation bills that special interest groups have blocked.
"Some people believe that the terrorist incident will have the effect of delaying structural reform in Japan," Mr. Koizumi said at the news conference. "That will never be the case. There is no change in our basic policy that there cannot be economic growth without reform."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nikkei index in Japan rose 2.7 percent yesterday, but is still down more than 3 percent from where it was before last week's terrorism. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); HIJACKING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AIRLINES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BULK SHIPPING (77%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (74%); MARINE TANKERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); TRENDS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTRONICS; SALES; CHRISTMAS 

COMPANY: ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO LTD (53%)

TICKER: ANA (LSE) (53%); 9202 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%)

PERSON: ;KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) JAPAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



545 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Primary Voters Reject Seattle Mayor After One Term 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
For the first time in 65 years, voters here have thrown out an incumbent mayor in a primary election, ousting the one-term mayor, Paul Schell, on Tuesday after a turbulent four years in which the city's image took a battering and its economy stumbled. 
 Two veteran city leaders will now face each other in the November election. 
 One is City Attorney Mark Sidran, whose family is from Brooklyn and who embraced the political style of New York's Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani even before the terrorist attacks. The other is Greg Nickels, a member of the King County Council. Both are Democrats, though the race is officially nonpartisan. 
The election could foreshadow a new kind of municipal politics nationwide, in which people focus on security and public safety concerns and are less supportive of bold urban visions.
Mr. Schell's collapse was overwhelming. Nearly four of five voters in Tuesday's primary selected someone other than Mr. Schell, who came to office when Seattle was held up as a model for new American cities and who will leave in a year when the city seems to have lost some of its self-confidence.
Mr. Schell, 63, is a former developer and architecture school dean known for his intellect and urban vision. Under his watch, the city decided to build a new City Hall, justice center and library and to invest nearly $500 million in neighborhood and community centers while building two of the costliest sports stadiums in the world. Tax revenues soared, elite architects were chosen to sketch new monuments, and the city was flush with dot-com millionaires.
But the mayor was plagued by a combination of bad luck and bad management decisions, his critics and supporters said.
The 1999 World Trade Organization meeting, which was supposed to show off the city's embrace of the global economy, turned into a melee with tear gas and violence. An annual Mardi Gras festival ended in a riot, with police timidity and the death of a man who tried to save an injured woman. And the city's home-grown corporate giant, Boeing, moved its headquarters to Chicago.
The latest blow, layoffs of up to 30,000 Boeing workers, was announced just as the polls were closing on Tuesday night. 
"Paul Schell will be viewed almost as a Shakespearean tragic figure," said Mr. Sidran, who criticized him during the campaign as a weak leader. "He is a man of great vision and heart whose tragic flaw is the lack of political skills and lack of judgment."
The mayor's race now will turn on traffic congestion and an economy that has been gut-punched by Boeing layoffs and dot-com woes. A larger issue will be whether the city's tradition of process politics, in which all sides are consulted through innumerable hearings, will be replaced by more unilateral mayoral decision-making. 
Mr. Sidran, 50, was born and raised in Seattle, and makes a point of celebrating his Jewish and New York roots. As city attorney for 12 years, he championed a series of so-called civility laws that cracked down on urination on the streets, aggressive panhandling and rowdy behavior at night clubs. For several years, he has been compared to Mr. Giuliani, sometimes scornfully. 
The city's two daily newspapers endorsed Mr. Sidran. He may also have benefited from public safety concerns after the terrorist attacks. 
Mr. Nickels, who finished slightly ahead of Mr. Sidran, has been active in Seattle politics his entire adult life, serving once as aide to Norm Rice, a popular two-term mayor before Mr. Schell.
"We have a choice between someone who listens to all sides and someone who is divisive," Mr. Nickels said.
Where Mr. Sidran has an aggressive political style, Mr. Nickels says he reflects the traditional Seattle of minimal confrontation. 
"Nickels has embraced the Seattle we all know and love," said Jim Compton, a former newsman for NBC who is now a member of the City Council. "The question is whether that Seattle is still there."
With traffic congestion, voters have been frustrated by the slow pace in constructing a light rail system. The project is years behind schedule and faces huge cost overruns, even though not a shovel of dirt has been turned. Mr. Sidran has vowed to scrap the light rail plan, risking the loss of up to $500 million in federal financing. He says he will concentrate on improved bus and monorail service. 
Mr. Nickels has stuck by the light rail plan. "We've got to build this thing and end a 30-year debate," he said. 
In a city that is heavily Democratic, Mr. Nickels has the endorsement of most party leaders. Mr. Sidran calls himself "a Lieberman Democrat," after Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut. 
"I think we're at a real turning point with this election," Mr. Compton said. "The city that was politically correct and affluent is suddenly facing an uncertain future."
Mayor Schell, in conceding the loss today, expressed no bitterness over his rough ride in office.
"We have no regrets," he said. "I wouldn't trade the past four years for anything."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Sidran applauding primary returns on Tuesday in Seattle. He will face Greg Nickels in the mayoral election in November. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (93%); MAYORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); CITIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); POLITICS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COUNTIES (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); RIOTS (67%); TRENDS (67%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); MARDI GRAS (50%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (50%) PRIMARIES; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (52%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) EGAN, TIMOTHY; SCHELL, PAUL (MAYOR); SIDRAN, MARK; NICKELS, GREG (COUNCILMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) SEATTLE (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



546 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: In the Gaza Strip, Anger at the U.S. Still Smolders 

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: GAZA, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Two symbols of Palestinians' anger against the United States hovered over Gaza City shortly after noon on Saturday. The city went to the streets, all heads craned up. The two black dots above were American-made Apache helicopters, searching for targets.
 A boy on a bicycle, his eyes more on the sky than the road, struck a cab. Children ran out of school. Five rockets from the helicopters crashed into a military intelligence headquarters of the Palestinian Authority -- one of three official buildings struck that day in the Gaza Strip. 
 A cease-fire has now taken tenuous hold, but the mood remains dark. 
"We are against terrorism," said Abd al-Raof Abu Daka, a captain with the Palestinian police force in the southern town of Rafah, who watched as his headquarters was hit. "We don't like Americans to die. But the Israelis are hitting us with American weapons."
Anger, even hatred, of the United States as the perceived best friend of Israel is strong in the Gaza Strip. 
Few Palestinians in the strip, whose unresolved status fuels conflict in the Middle East, go so far as to say they feel the joy of other Palestinians filmed celebrating after the terror attacks last week in New York and Washington.
But they look at the misery of their lives and cannot help feeling that the United States has a hand in it. The two sides are killing each other, but nearly every day for the last year, young Palestinians have died in intensified clashes with Israeli soldiers and, increasingly, in Israeli assaults on Palestinian areas.
Here in the isolated territory of Gaza, the Israelis have sealed off the border for almost a year. 
That has made Israelis feel safer, but it has made Palestinians feel that they live in a giant prison of poverty and despair, which makes a ripe breeding ground for fanatics and suicide bombers.
Baram al-Faramawy, 17, shrieked away with giggles from Israeli soldiers who were firing back bullets at youths like him throwing stones near Rafah last weekend. Out of breath but full of bravado, he stopped amid shops eroded by bullet holes and said he would happily do worse, and to Americans if he had the chance.
"I am willing to go and explode myself," he said.
Eyad Sarraj, a psychiatrist and human rights activist in Gaza, said most Palestinians, like most people around the world, were horrified at the enormous loss of civilian life in New York and Washington. But he added that United States support of Israel, particularly during the yearlong surge in fighting, had earned America few friends here.
"Many people around the world," he added, "including this place, are expressing a kind of evil spirit of joy: that the Americans, at last, are tasting from the same cup. We are backward and ignorant, but this has been helped by the American policies in the Middle East."
As with most of the military strikes, Israeli officials said the attacks on Saturday had been retribution for Palestinian violence, in this case grenades thrown at the main crossing from Israel into Gaza, at Erez, wounding two Israeli soldiers.
Israel's prime minister, Ariel Sharon, has drawn parallels between the attack on the United States and Israel's long experience with violence. All suicide bombers are terrorists, he says, whether in Jerusalem or Manhattan. He has called Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, "our bin Laden."
There is some debate in Gaza -- home to the radical Islamic groups Hamas and Islamic Holy War -- over whether the attacks in the United States should force a change in tactics.
Ziad Abu-Amr, a prominent Palestinian politician, said most Palestinian leaders had agreed in recent days that suicide bombings inside Israel should be suspended.
"This would be helping Israel," he said of further bombings now. "And unless you are ignorant and stupid, you wouldn't do these things under the circumstances."
One who disagrees is Sheik Abdallah al-Shami, spokesman for Islamic Holy War, a group founded in the 1970's that has carried out so many suicide bombings that he said he could not count them.
"There is a big difference between what is going on inside occupied Palestine and what is going on inside the United States," he said, strongly disavowing any connection between his group and the men who carried out the attacks in the United States. "We don't have the weapons that Israel has."
Here he drew a connection to the United States and the fighter jets it sells to Israel. "They have F-16's," he said of the Israeli military. "We have F-16's that are our bodies, and that's what we use by exploding."
Public opinion polls show that since the so-called second intifada, or uprising, began last September, extremist groups like Islamic Holy War and Hamas have gained more support.
Even before the new fighting, the Gaza Strip, where some 700,000 of the Palestinian residents live as refugees, was exceptionally poor and a hotbed for extremism. But since last September, almost none of the 40,000 Gazans who worked in Israel have been able to cross the border. The United Nations estimates that the unemployment rate has shot up to about 50 percent from 25 percent. The poverty rate, defined as those living on less than $2 a day, has risen.
Hamed al-Batnijy, 74, a farmer, is letting some of his fields lie fallow because trucks cannot take his tomatoes and cucumbers to their usual markets in Israel and Jordan.
Nazir Ghabir, 43, said he had succumbed recently to the despair of not having enough money for his 12 children by pouring about five gallons of gasoline on himself and threatening to light a match. His neighbors stopped him.
Last week, Muhammad al-Madhon, 13, dyed his hair to cover up gray growing in, which his mother insists is from the stress of constantly hearing Israeli warplanes over Gaza.
"Our husbands are sitting at home," said his mother, Mariam, 52, whose husband, for years a construction worker in Israel, has not worked for a year. Like nearly every Palestinian interviewed in Gaza, she said she felt bad for the people who had died in New York. But she added that the attack was, in the end, America's own fault.
"America is the one who caused it, because of what it is doing," she said. "America is a superpower. They are the strongest. They should stand beside us. Why do we get all this pressure? This pressure is generating a volcano."
In Gaza, death has become routine. "This is normal," said Raed al-Balawi, 18, as yet another funeral for a young man shot while throwing stones passed by. Flags waved, and men fired guns in the air and hauled the body through the streets on a green army cot. "Sometimes it's even more crazy," he said.
The dead boy's father, Khalil Hasona, said his son, Ramzy, 17, had been shot while throwing stones on three occasions in the last six months, twice in the same leg and then, on Friday, through the heart.
"The first time he was shot, he promised he wouldn't go anymore," Mr. Hasona said. "But he was shot again, so I knew he was going again. I beat him up."
Still, he was proud of his son -- proud, he explained, that Ramzy was a martyr.
"But," he added, "I hope he is the last martyr."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Palestinian boys in Gaza throwing stones at an Israeli checkpoint near Rafah. One youth declared, "I am willing to go and explode myself." (James Hill/The New York Times) Map of Israel highlighting Gaza: A cease-fire has taken hold in Gaza, but the mood is dark.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HELICOPTERS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) ISRAEL; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GAZA STRIP

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



547 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED; 
Trade Deficit Ebbs Amid Shrinking Demand

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit shrank slightly in July, reflecting a slump in both exports and imports amid slower economic growth at home and abroad, the Commerce Department reported today.
 In a separate report, the Federal Reserve, in its regional survey known as the beige book, said that the economy remained sluggish in August and early September -- before the terrorist attacks. 
 The trade deficit narrowed to $28.8 billion in July, the last month for which official figures are available, from $29.1 billion in June. Weaker foreign demand for a broad range of goods reduced United States exports by $2.2 billion in July from June, the Commerce Department said. It was the largest month-to-month decline since at least January 1992, when the government began keeping the current series of monthly statistics. 
Imports dropped $2.4 billion in July amid shrinking domestic demand, to $112.6 billion, a fourth consecutive month of decline.
Economists said the data made it more likely that the economy would show a contraction in the third quarter. But a downward revision in the trade deficit in June could allow second-quarter figures to remain in positive territory at next week's final revision.
Jay Bryson, global economist at First Union Bank, remarked that "it's all consistent with an economy that's teetering on the brink of a recession, if not headed into one." With the shock from last week's attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, he said, it is "highly probable" that the overall economy this quarter will show a contraction.
The beige book survey, based on anecdotal reports gathered before Sept. 10, the day before the attacks, said that consumer spending was "flat to down" in the survey period. Spending was weak despite back-to-school shopping, and the Fed said there had been little help from the income tax rebates mailed in the last several weeks.
"Reports from Federal Reserve districts generally indicated that overall economic activity remained sluggish in August and early September," the report said, "with several suggesting that activity slowed further."
The downturn in exports, to $83.7 billion in July from $85.9 billion in June, was broad based, with capital goods, industrial material and supplies, and automobiles and parts showing the largest declines.
Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, said that hopes that the contraction in world trade would stabilize later this year were undermined last week. "As result of the terrorist attacks," he said, "international trade in both directions will shrink," adding that the global economy would worsen.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Economic Slowdown Continues Across the Nation"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. Minneapolis: Business activity in the region remained slow. Job cuts increased. Home construction grew slightly. Chicago: Consumer spending weakened. Home construction remained strong.Farmers faced low crop prices. Cleveland: Weakness in manufacturing ed to plant closings and job cuts. Prices and wages showed little change. Boston: Economic activity remained slow. Sales and orders were below levels from the previous year. New York: The economy weakened further. Retail prices were unchanged while inventories were at satisfactory levels. Philadelphia: Business activity was subdued. Manufactures reported fewer shipments and orders. Auto sales were also lower. Richmond, Va.: Manufacturing stayed firm while retail sales weakened. Housing remained at a high level. Atlanta: Growth continued to be sluggish. Retail sales improved but inventories were high. Manufacturers reported high wage costs. St. Louis: Manufacturing led the slowdown in the region. Retail sales remained weak. Sales of new autos fell. Home sales continued to be strong. Kansas City, Mo.: Retail sales were flat and residential construction grew slightly. Commercial real estate deteriorated. Dallas: The economy in the region weakened further as manufacturing, construction and real estate activity declined. Retail sales remained weak. San Francisco: The economy continued to slow. Consumer spending cooled and bank lending slowed. Residential real estate remained strong. Map of United States highlighting above cities.(Source: Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (62%); FIRST UNION BANK OF CONNECTICUT (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



548 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE REGULATORS; 
<HD L>S.E.C. Plans An Extension Of Its Waiver Of Some Rules

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Federal officials are preparing to extend an order waiving certain trading regulations to permit companies and executives to help prop up the price of their shares.
 Officials at the Securities and Exchange Commission said today that the order, which was to have lapsed on Friday, would be extended at least a week to allow companies more time to take advantage of it. 
 The agency has also begun to seek records from several investment firms to see if terrorists may have tried to profit financially from the attack. Law enforcement officials described the request as the beginning of an inquiry that had so far yielded no direct evidence of such activity. 
The waiver, first issued last Friday, is the first instance of the agency's having invoked its emergency powers. It enables publicly traded companies to buy their own shares in the stock market without the normal restrictions on the volume and timing of those trades.
The officials emphasized that the extension of the waiver was not motivated by any problems that have arisen since the exchanges resumed trading on Monday.
"We have not seen any liquidity problems as of this moment," said Harvey L. Pitt, the chairman of the S.E.C. "The extension is not based on anything we've seen or because we've seen any problems. A number of issuers want to repurchase their shares and there's no harm in extending the order. It's useful to give the markets a sense of continuity."
Mr. Pitt said that the last three days of trading suggested that the exchanges were able to operate normally despite the extraordinary circumstances.
"The sense we've had is that the markets are responding on the fundamentals and not on emotions," he said. "That's what we hoped to achieve. I have a reasonably good feeling. Yesterday's market was uplifting. And the finish line today wasn't all that terrible. It's not our business to control the markets. I'd obviously be happier with a bull market."
In a separate development, the commission recently requested trading records from several major investment houses to determine whether any of the terrorists may have tried to profit from the attack.
Law enforcement officials said that they did not have direct evidence of short-selling or trading in put options, two common methods of profiting from a decline in a stock's price. But shortly before the attacks, there was unusually heavy trading in put options in several airline and insurance companies, including AMR, the parent of American Airlines; UAL, the parent of United Airlines; and Citigroup, the parent of Travelers insurance as well as Citibank and Salomon Smith Barney. There was also unusually heavy option trading in Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the largest tenant at 2 World Trade Center, which was destroyed.
German officials are conducting a similar review of moves related to three large reinsurance companies.
But American and European officials also emphasized that there could be innocent explanations for the trading patterns, particularly since many investors had already been betting that the world economy would weaken further.
People close to the inquiry said that the S.E.C. had asked Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers for trading records.
Law enforcement officials today emphasized that the inquiry was only in its preliminary stages and that they did not have any direct evidence that terrorists were involved in trading.
"We are vigorously pursuing all credible leads, but, at this time, we have drawn no conclusions," said Stephen M. Cutler, the acting director of enforcement at the commission. "We are working closely with other federal law enforcement authorities, as well as the self-regulatory organizations and our foreign regulatory counterparts, to provide all possible assistance." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); AIRLINES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HIJACKING (76%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); AVIATION INSURANCE (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: ;LABATON, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



549 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Administration Seeks to Shift Farm Policy From Subsidies 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The Bush administration called today for a major shift away from the current farm policy, arguing for more conservation and international trade over an existing approach that it said was too generous to wealthy grain and cotton farmers.
 "A new farm policy must be tailored to reflect the wide difference in farms today," said Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman as she unveiled the new program. 
 After months of debate in Congress over the shape of farm policy in the next decade, the 120-page platform unveiled today was a blow to several farm-state lawmakers who had argued for increased commodity subsidies and an unexpected boost to those from both parties who had argued for greater conservation efforts. Such efforts would include maintaining wetlands. 
The policy statement was a general idea of the direction the administration would like for legislation to take.
While Ms. Veneman stopped short of choosing between rival programs being considered in Congress, the report showed precisely how the current $20 billion annual subsidy program distorted the market, pushed land prices to artificially high levels and jeopardized current as well as future trade agreements.
The administration's policy argues that all farmers would benefit if federal farm aid shifted from its singular focus on commodity subsidies and instead helped underwrite greater access to foreign markets, more conservation programs, expanded research into pest and disease control and better infrastructure.
That will require an overhaul of today's Depression-era policy that largely rewards only farmers of cotton, wheat, corn, soybeans and rice. Eight percent of American farmers receive almost half of the federal subsidies. Those subsidies, according to the report, have helped big farmers to expand their acreage and increase production without losing any benefits because subsidies are not based on need. Indeed, their average household income was $135,000, the report said.
"We want to reorient programs to help not just big wheat or corn farmers but all farmers," said J. B. Penn, the undersecretary of agriculture. 
Administration officials said it was uncertain whether Congress would spend $171 billion for a new 10-year farm bill given the increased military and economic demands on the budget.
In what is shaping up to be a battle in the Republican Party, the administration's critique of the current farm policy undercut much of the House farm bill sponsored by Rep. Larry Combest, Republican of Texas and chairman of the Agriculture Committee.
Under Mr. Combest's measure, current subsidies would be increased and new ones added. But in a statement today, he said the administration's policy goals were consistent with his bill.
A Senate bill being drafted by Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa and Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the senior Democrat and Republican on the Agriculture Committee respectively, is much closer to the administration's plan and places greater emphasis on conservation. 
Other supporters of the administration's policy include moderate Republicans and urban lawmakers who want farm aid spread to their constituencies, as well as conservative Republicans who have always considered these subsidies misguided welfare.
Conservation and environmental groups praised the administration's new policy.
"We're all very pleasantly surprised," said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit organization promoting conservation in agriculture. "This could be a watershed in agriculture policy if the administration follows through with specific proposals for the new farm bill."
Agriculture Department officials said they were not advocating an abrupt end to subsidies. They said they recognized a need for a safety net, or cash subsidies, to help farmers and ranchers during "unexpected events beyond their control." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WETLANDS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); BUDGETS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%) AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: TOM HARKIN (58%); DICK LUGAR (58%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); VENEMAN, ANN M (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



550 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MEDIA; 
Draping Newscasts With the Flag

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG and BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
On the Fox News Channel Tuesday, the anchor Jon Scott told Wolfgang Ischinger, the German ambassador to the United States, "We look forward to working with your country in wiping out these terrorists."
 Reporting from the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, the CNN financial news anchor Lou Dobbs said, "This country is blessed with a very strong economy and the greatest democracy in the world." 
 On "Late Show With David Letterman" on Tuesday the CBS anchor Dan Rather said, "George Bush is the president, he makes the decisions, and, you know, as just one American, he wants me to line up, just tell me where."
Coverage of crisis or war has always put the American media in an ambiguous position, raising the question: Should it be an unbiased broker of information or unapologetically patriotic in style and substance? 
Empathy with victims is a staple of news coverage, but television has draped its coverage with the flag in the last week. In between presenting straightforward reports -- or even, like Mr. Rather, in interviews away from their news programs -- anchors and correspondents have not hesitated to conduct the postattack coverage primarily through the viewpoint of the United States. Use of the pronouns "our" and "us" have been commonplace.
CNN, Fox News Channel and MSNBC have incorporated screen images of American flags. And red, white and blue ribbons and flag pins have at times adorned the lapels of news anchors, like Brit Hume on the Fox News Channel -- often simulcast on the Fox broadcast network -- and Tim Russert of NBC.
Critics say that such actions undermine the anchors' position as disinterested conveyors of news and can intensify public opinion in a way that could help push America into a war footing.
The news broadcasters are clearly feeling the same pain from the attacks as the viewers are. In addition to the emotions the attacks aroused because of the sheer numbers of presumed dead, they also took place close to the offices of the news organizations in New York and Washington that are now on the front lines of the coverage, and this is influencing the situation, news executives said.
John Moody, a senior vice president at the Fox News Channel, said his network was doing the right thing in showing a waving American flag on its screen.
"I'd sure prefer that to a hammer and sickle, I'll tell you that," Mr. Moody said. "I think that there's some patriotism on camera now, and I think inasmuch as TV news often reflects America's mood at any given moment, that's what it's doing now."
Alex S. Jones, the director of the Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard, said the showing of some emotion now was understandable. 
But, he said, as the government prepares for war, television news is going to have to be vigilant in maintaining a critical and analytic eye and not falling to boosterism, especially when it has to cover foreign governments that might not fall right in line with the United States.
"There may be differences of opinion," Mr. Jones said. "And part of the responsibility of the media will be to not seem to adopt the style and the language and the sort of symbols of one particular group."
Nonetheless, John R. MacArthur, the publisher of Harper's Magazine, who wrote "Second Front: Censorship and Propaganda in the Gulf War" (Hill & Wang, 1992), said the television networks already seemed to be "preparing the nation for war" without asking many tough questions of the administration. 
And, he said, the news networks that are adorning their screens with the flag are sending "signals to the viewers to some extent that the media are acting as an arm of the government, as opposed to an independent, objective purveyor of information, which is what we're supposed to be."
But news executives said their staffs are seasoned and could manage to protect their coverage from their own feelings. 
"We do feel connected to our audience, to the people of this country, to the people of New York and the people of Washington," said Sid Bedingfield, executive vice president of CNN. "But we would never let that compromise our core journalistic mission, which is to report the news without bias."
On "Late Show," Mr. Rather struck a critical note about the government's intelligence efforts.
Still, Mr. Moody of Fox News said he was going to be careful not to let Fox play a role in which it would help drive public opinion toward war. 
"I'm aware that there is a fine line," he said.
Then again, he added, it might not take the media to influence the public to support war. "I don't think the American public needs to be hopped up right now," he said, adding that it already is.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lou Dobbs of CNN called the United States "the greatest democracy in the world." (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ;CABLE NEWS NETWORK; FOX BROADCASTING CO; MSNBC (CABLE CHANNEL) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); DAVID LETTERMAN (55%); TIM RUSSERT (51%) RUTENBERG, JIM; CARTER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



551 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Late-Afternoon Rally Stems Steep Losses; Dow Declines 1.6%

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Stocks plunged most of yesterday, then recovered sharply in the final hour of trading as investors struggled to reconcile a raft of ugly profit reports with the hope that the economy might recover strongly next year.
 At their afternoon nadirs, the Nasdaq composite index and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index hovered just above the lows they reached in the fall of 1998, when Wall Street worried that a financial crisis that had begun in Asia and was spreading to Russia would turn into a worldwide recession. 
 By 2:45 p.m., the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen more than 400 points, or nearly 5 percent, on fears that the terrorist attacks of last week might depress consumer spending and corporate profits for many months. The possibility of further terrorist attacks on the United States, or of a widening conflict, added to the gloom. 
The economy appeared headed for recession even before last week's attacks, with corporate profits skidding and unemployment rising to 4.9 percent in August from 3.9 percent in November. Now, with travel disrupted and some consumers postponing big purchases, like homes and cars, analysts expect the economy to struggle for at least several months.
Contributing to the bearish mood were profit warnings from several big companies, including Eastman Kodak, Viacom and the Ford Motor Company, as well as Boeing's announcement on Tuesday that it would lay off up to 30,000 of its employees. American Airlines and United Airlines said yesterday that they would each lay off 20,000 workers.
The wave of layoffs could further undermine consumer confidence and spending.
Selling by individual investors appeared to account for most of the drop yesterday morning and early afternoon, according to Biryini Associates, which tracks the flow of money in and out of stocks.
Other market strategists suggested that some investors had been forced to sell to pay off loans.
After moving down in tandem, the Nasdaq and the S.& P. 500 began a strong rally about 2:45 p.m. The surge was fueled by both large and small investors, according to Biryini.
By the close of trading, the Dow was off only 144.27 points, or 1.6 percent, at 8,759.13. The Nasdaq, which fell more than 100 points during the day, ended the day down just 27.28 points, or 1.8 percent, at 1,527.80. The S.& P. 500, which was down almost 50 points at its low, closed down 16.64 points, or 1.6 percent, at 1,016.10.
Douglas R. Cliggott, the chief equity strategist at J. P. Morgan, said he thought the sharp sell-off was largely a result of margin calls on individual investors by brokerage firms. 
Some investors take out loans, called margin, from their brokers so they can buy stock. The stock provides the collateral for the loan, so if its value drops, the investor has to put up more money or the brokerage firm will sell his stock and use the proceeds to repay the loan.
Margin calls are most likely to occur in the days after a sharp decline like Monday's.
"The timing suggests that a part of the sell-off midday was margin calls, and a big part of the rebound was institutional buying," Mr. Cliggott said. "The margin calls created some opportunities that some big institutions came in and took advantage of."
Analysts said the rally provided some reason for optimism even though the short-term outlook for the economy was bleak.
"At some point, market valuations get squeezed down enough so that the U. S. stock market is more attractive than alternative places to put your money," said Chris Kaufman, the lead manager of the $1.9 billion BlackRock Large Cap Value mutual fund.
Rick Peterson, 57, of Houston, said he was "keeping some cash around because there may be a chance to start buying into quality."
He mentioned Home Depot, Intel and General Electric as possibilities. "If it had held this morning, I would've eased into some of those. Now I'll wait until Monday and see how the market reacts."
Despite this week's market losses, Richard Linowes, an assistant professor at the Kogod School of Business at American University, said he was "basically very optimistic about how we pull through."
Mr. Linowes added that the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq stock market and the Wall Street firms deserved credit for the smooth resumption of trading despite the severe disruption in Lower Manhattan.
"It's almost miraculous that everything is up and running," he said.
Still, the economy will probably struggle, said Charles L. Hill, the research director at Thomson Financial/First Call. More bad economic news and the risk of more terrorist attacks may weigh on the markets for several months, he said.
Before last week's attacks, Wall Street analysts expected profits to decline 15 percent in the third quarter from the year-earlier period. Now profits will probably fall more than 20 percent in the third quarter, and 15 percent to 20 percent in the fourth quarter, Mr. Hill said. Profits will probably not recover until at least the second quarter of 2002, he said.
"We're going to continue to have a drag on the earnings front that's going to be horrendous for a month or so and going to make it difficult, even ex-political things, to have a sustained rally," he said.
Over all, the United States might be headed for the deepest recession it has faced in a generation, Mr. Hill said.
Even so, he expects that by the second half of next year, the United States will be recovering strongly, thanks to increased federal spending and the Fed's rate cuts.
Some individual investors said they did not plan to buy or sell, at least for the moment.
"Sell? No, absolutely not," said Rick Negri, who is 36 and a salesman at a finance firm. "In fact, I might start buying -- not because I'm looking for bargains but because it's the right and important thing to do."
More investors than usual called to check on their mutual funds, several fund companies said. But most of those who called did not sell their fund shares, and the number of transactions was not unusually high, they said.
"For most part, investors were standing pat," said John Woerth, a spokesman for the Vanguard Group, the huge fund company.
He said the company received about 30 percent more calls than usual on Monday and Tuesday, but only 15 percent more yesterday. 
Bill Garcia, a computer consultant from Wayne, N.J., said: "I don't intend to touch anything for a while. It's kind of sad to look at it on a day-to-day basis, so I try not to."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10) Chart: "THE DOW THIS WEEK"The Dow Jones industrial average lost ground sharply again yesterday, but a strong rally late in the day helped trim the losses. For the week, the Dow is down 8.8 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 500 is off 7 percent. The Nasdaq has fared even worse, down 9.9 percent. PREVIOUS CLOSE (SEPT. 10): 9,605.51 MONDAY'S CLOSE: 8,920.70TUESDAY'S CLOSE: 8,903.40YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 8,759.13 YESTERDAY'S LOW: 8,480.21 Monday: -684.81Tuesday: -17.30Yesterday: -144.27(Source: Bridge Information Systems)(pg. C1) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks 15 and 30 year interest rates from May through September.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%); VIACOM INC (55%); BOEING CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



552 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Mayoral Candidates Discuss Plans for a Transformed City 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Struggling to adjust to what has become an entirely different agenda for New York's next mayor, the six major mayoral candidates offered a troubled view of New York's future yesterday, as they began discussing ways the city could rebuild, guard against an exodus by business, and ensure the safety of its citizens from future terrorist attacks.
 In a series of interviews with The New York Times, the four major Democrats and two Republicans discussed in some detail their proposals to respond to the crisis that they agreed had completely rewritten the demands and mission of the job they are seeking. 
 Their responses -- the first discussion the candidates have had, publicly and at length, on how they would lead New York City out of this crisis -- signaled the extent to which the attack has shifted the issues that are likely to frame the primary, originally scheduled on the day of the World Trade Center attack and now reset for Tuesday.
Talk about opening up the plaza in front of City Hall, which had been blocked by Rudolph W. Giuliani, the outgoing Republican mayor, as an antiterrorism measure, has been replaced with a strong advocacy for toughened security, from the use of surveillance cameras with digital facial recognition technology to random checkpoints for vehicles on the street and for people carrying luggage. 
What had been mild disagreements about the degree that New York might suffer in a national recession has now been replaced by a consensus that the city is heading into potentially perilous economic times, faced with a loss of jobs, tax revenue and tourism. What had been the predominant subject of discussion before last Tuesday -- how to rebuild the city's school system -- has been replaced with a discussion about how to rebuild Lower Manhattan itself.
The candidates agreed to the interviews at a time when all six have halted campaigning, in response to the crisis that began unfolding when the first of two hijacked jetliners crashed into one of the trade center towers three hours after the polls opened on the morning of Sept. 11. Since then, the candidates have not agreed to any group forums where they might be drawn into discussions or quarrels. But they have agreed to give six back-to-back nine-minute speeches on the subject to be broadcast on WNBC-TV this Sunday.
All the candidates said they would draw on the expertise of business and civic leaders as they worked through a reconstruction plan for New York. Nonetheless, all the candidates said they had been thinking increasingly about the challenges that would face them as mayor as the extent of the destruction became clear -- and each offered ideas about how to deal with it.
Among the Democrats, Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, said New York should replace the office space that was lost by dispersing construction across the city, eliminating the centralization of commerce and communications that Mr. Ferrer warned might invite another devastating attack. Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller and another Democrat, said New York should give tax forgiveness of as much as 10 years to companies whose offices were destroyed, as a way of encouraging companies not to flee New York.
Mark Green, the public advocate, called for the creation of a consortium of state, city, labor and business leaders with the authority to lay out reconstruction plans, along with how to use bonds, business tax breaks and federal subsidies to finance it. Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, said New Yorkers had to adjust to a stringent new era of tightened security. "The priorities in every case are going to be security now: it's a new war," he said. 
Among the Republicans, Michael R. Bloomberg said the city should embark on a huge housing construction project, to make it attractive to corporations that might otherwise be tempted to leave. "You can make the case that we need housing more than we need office space," he said.
His opponent, Herman Badillo, said that he would ask every member of Mayor Giuliani's cabinet to stay on in office to ensure as much continuity as possible in the change of administrations.
To varying degrees, the candidates said that the attack had forced them to reconsider the promises they made to New Yorkers before the primary. In the most obvious example, most of the candidates had proposed using revenue the city derived from the World Trade Center for housing, while Mr. Green said he would use it to help pay for a Second Avenue subway line. 
"Clearly, our first priority is to maintain safety and security, and the second is to rebuild our infrastructure," Mr. Green said. "I don't doubt that local goals I had will have to yield in time to these first two goals, to meet these first two urgent demands." 
Mr. Vallone argued that the influx of federal aid -- "This is a federal responsibility; this was an attack on the United States," he said -- would give the next mayor a chance to rebuild New York. "We have a tremendous opportunity here, to do whatever has to be done with this city," he said. 
Mr. Ferrer said that while the attack had led him to change some priorities, it was not at the expense of his theme to deal with neglected New Yorkers. "This has become an urgent priority," he said. "But while we're addressing these urgent issues, are we going to ignore the other important issues in the city? They are the issues that made me run for mayor in the first damn place."
The candidates all said the trade center should be reconstructed in some form, along with some sort of memorial. Mr. Hevesi said he would support a replacement that was larger in total size, but not height, than the destroyed complex, to demonstrate that New York City "could not be beaten."
Mr. Bloomberg said, "You have to put something up on that site for emotional and patriotic reasons," though he said large-scale public construction should be done instead near the Javits Center.
Mr. Hevesi said the city should move quickly to putting together a plan to discourage businesses from fleeing. "If we are smart and we quickly develop and create a redevelopment program for downtown, and a very serious business-friendly program -- to encourage businesses to stay here and to come here with massive tax breaks and energy breaks and subsidies, we can turn this around," he said.
Mr. Badillo said the city should build on the model of its response to the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, enlisting "businesses of all kinds, bankers, insurance companies, and labor."
Mr. Bloomberg, though, asserted that the attack had dimmed the hopes of the project's being built anytime soon. "I don't want to be the one to say it's not going to happen, but it's clearly going to be harder now than it was before," he said.
The candidates, with varying degrees of enthusiasm, said they expected -- and supported -- increased security measures in the city. Mr. Green, for example, said that he was prepared for random checks of people in public places like Grand Central Terminal.
Mr. Vallone said the most important consideration was that "people have to feel comfortable." Mr. Ferrer, though, said he was worried that there would be too much of an infringement on civil liberties. "We don't do this by tossing our values out the window," he said. "Look -- if we abandon our values, the people behind these attacks will have won." 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the New York mayoral candidates' views on rebuilding the city omitted a reference in some copies to the project that Michael R. Bloomberg said would be harder to carry out in the aftermath of the World Trade Center attack. It is the proposed subway line under Second Avenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); BIOMETRICS (71%); RECESSION (70%); TRENDS (68%); AIRLINES (68%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (66%); RELOCATIONS (60%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (51%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTION ISSUES; MAYORS; ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL; BADILLO, HERMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



553 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE BORDERS; 
New Security Clogs U.S. Borders

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. with BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex., Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Traffic congestion at border crossings with Mexico and Canada began to ease a bit today as the United States brought in off-duty Customs agents and National Guard troops to relieve delays caused when security was tightened after terrorists attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon last week.
 But shoppers from Mexico and truckers from Canada could still face waits of more than an hour to cross the border, and that was enough to discourage many from trying. The effect on local economies was apparent, especially here in this booming border city in South Texas. 
 Since the attacks, the number of cars crossing into the United States at the McAllen-Hidalgo International Bridge here has dropped by one-third, to about 12,000 a day, as drivers choose not to endure delays from increased searches and other security measures. "A lot of people evidently have decided they don't want to cross and put up with the hassle," said George Ramon, the bridge director. "That seems to be the case up and down the border." 
In some places this would be a big inconvenience, though little else. But in McAllen and some other Texas border towns, it is much more because their economies depend on the business of Mexicans who travel to Texas, often with extended families, to shop.
The slowdown at border crossings has crimped the flow of shoppers not only from Reynosa across the Rio Grande, but from places in the interior like Saltillo and Monterrey, a big northern city that is prosperous in Mexican terms and is by some measures the country's industrial capital. Those customers contribute a big part of the local economy at stores and malls in Texas. This type of trade -- and the anxiety of local economic leaders who worry that it could be diminished for some time -- underlines just how much the Texas border economy is tied to Mexico.
It is hard to overstate what the spending by Mexican shoppers means to Texas retailers. In 1998, for example, almost a quarter of McAllen's retail sales -- or $901 million -- was to Mexicans who took their purchases back home, according to calculations published by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. In Laredo, Tex., another important crossing, more than a third of retail sales were to visiting Mexican shoppers.
"We support our country, we support the president, and we understand the need to protect borders and search everyone who comes in," said Mike Allen, president of the McAllen Economic Development Corporation, "but if this continues I see a tremendous financial crisis on the border. You have to understand: the Mexican people are our customers."
Many of those customers work in factories, or maquilas, just inside Mexico. Ray Perryman, head of an economic consulting firm in Waco, Tex., calculates that every $1 earned in the maquila plants translates into $1.06 in spending in border towns on the other side of the Rio Grande.
"You shut down those border crossings and a lot of that retail spending is going to go away," he said. If the border points remain clogged, Mr. Perryman said, the region "doesn't have as much slack to absorb things as other areas."
Federal officials have tried to ease the bottlenecks, and city officials said traffic was moving faster today after Customs officials authorized overtime pay for inspectors, allowing more lanes to be opened on the McAllen-Hidalgo bridge. That, in turn, helped shorten the wait.
Along the Canadian border, shippers reported waiting times of one or two hours at most after National Guard troops were brought in on the American side to supplement Customs agents. Immediately after the terrorist attacks, some truckers said they waited as long as 15 hours to cross the Ambassador Bridge from Windsor, Ontario, to Detroit.
Gerald Fedchun, president of the Automotive Parts Manufacturers Association of Canada, whose members supply assembly plants in both countries, said the current delays are "something everybody can handle."
Texas business owners are not so sanguine. Here, retailers are awaiting the weekend's crowds as a barometer of how things will evolve. "The big test is going to be this weekend, that's when we see a lot of them come down," said Al Serrano, district manager for nine Wal-Mart stores in south Texas. The branches with the biggest impact from the border delays, Mr. Serrano said, are in Eagle Pass, Laredo and McAllen. He said he saw signs of business returning today, but the number of customers is still down.
Just 4 of 12 northbound lanes had been open on the bridge here, but Customs officials authorized overtime pay for inspectors so they could open three more lanes for periods of eight hours a day.
Mr. Ramon, the bridge director, said that was likely to reduce delays. But he called paying overtime a "Band-aid solution" to a problem that could be resolved only by the allocation of more federal money to hire inspectors. "Our economies are so interdependent," he said, "and this bridge is the link."
As in other Texas border cities, McAllen's job growth and population have soared -- more than 106,000 within city limits, according to the 2000 census. But unemployment runs roughly twice the national level and incomes are less than half that -- a continuing source of frustration for local leaders trying to attract jobs that pay better-than-typical retail wages. The loss now of significant retail traffic could really hurt, they say, as the region tries to deal with an economy that was softening even before last week. 
Mike Perez, McAllen's city manager, said that the impact from Mexicans' not being able to buy goods and products here would be substantial and that the tightening of borders had made the situation harder.
But a Customs spokesman said that delays were inevitable now, and he added, "We're doing everything we possibly can to move traffic and move commerce."
The border-crossing slowdown disrupted the flow of cargo including shipments of raw materials to the maquila plants in Mexico and shipments back as finished products.
Auto parts makers and other manufacturers face similar problems along the Canadian frontier. Some companies there have switched from road to rail movement in the last 10 days to try to minimize delays. "We expect shippers will consider rail where it is feasible," said Dawneen MacKenzie, director of communications at Livingston International, a big Customs broker based in Toronto.
Shippers and government officials alike say that, for now, security will be as high a priority as efficiency at border posts. "We're on a high state of alert," said Michel Proulx, a spokesman for the Canada Customs and Revenue Agency. "We expect things are going to change, but which direction they're going to go in is too early to predict."
That is something of a turnabout from the state of things earlier this month. Before the attacks on Sept. 11, the highest priority of business people and bureaucrats involved in United States-Canada trade had been to speed up and simplify procedures at the 3,000-mile border, not necessarily to make movement more secure. "We never thought the border was a security problem," said Mr. Fedchun of the auto parts makers association.
Customs officials are now verifying the identity of every person who crosses the border between the United States and Canada, the world's biggest trading partners, and inspecting most of the cargo. Systems put in place over the last few years to speed low-risk travelers through border formalities have been set aside, and the future of proposed Canadian legislation to streamline Customs procedures is uncertain.
There are hundreds of points of contact between the two economies: 147 land border crossings, 187 airports of various sizes with cross-border flights, 76 ports and 15 rail crossings through which people and cargo move, according to Canada Customs' tally.
In the long term, Mr. Fedchun said, border authorities will need "more sophisticated and complicated solutions" than just adding people -- perhaps using huge X-ray machines that can examine an entire truck and its contents at once, or sealing trucks before they leave their points of origin.
But extra security and longer delays at the border are sure to push up costs, and shippers, carriers and brokers are increasingly asking: Who will pay?

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the crossing point for Hidalgo, Tex., many choose to walk rather than try to drive from Reynosa, Mexico. Waiting times recently have often exceeded two hours. (Brad Doherty for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Trucks backed up last week at a bridge from Windsor, Ontario, to Detroit. Help from National Guard troops is gradually speeding movement. (Associated Press)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); FAMILY (70%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (68%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MCALLEN-HIDALGO INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE; SEARCH AND SEIZURE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ;CUSTOMS SERVICE (US); NATIONAL GUARD (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); CANADA; MEXICO; MCALLEN (TEX); TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



554 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Bond Investors Show Signs of Optimism

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Bond investors are known as the financial market's worriers, but yesterday they became the optimists on the economy. 
 Usually, stock investors are the true believers, upbeat about their companies' future earnings and operations. Bond investors, by contrast, think every cloud on the horizon is a Force 5 gale headed their way. 
 They switched colors yesterday. Investors jettisoned stocks as too risky in a world where terrorism may become commonplace, even though stocks came back at the end of the day. Bond investors, meanwhile, apparently grew more confident that lower interest rates and renewed spending by the United States government would reinvigorate the economy in the not-too-distant future. 
"I'm not saying the market's omniscient," said Stan Jonas, managing director at Fimat USA, a broker dealer in New York. "But people are making plans and convincing themselves that sometime in the next four months, this economic weakness is going to pass, and we're going to be on a healthy road." 
Based on the action in the futures markets, bond investors expect the Federal Reserve policy makers to cut rates one-half point more when they meet on Oct. 2. Looking further out, these investors see short-term rates falling to 2 percent by the end of the year. On Monday, the Fed cut the target rate on overnight loans among banks to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, the eighth time it has reduced rates this year.
Yields on short-term Treasuries have plummeted in recent days and fell to new lows yesterday. Yields fall when investors bid up prices, usually in search of the safety of securities backed by the United States government. The two-year Treasury yielded 2.82 percent, down from 3.5 percent before the terrorist attacks. And the five-year Treasury note yielded 3.8 percent, down from 4.3 percent before the disasters.
The yields on 30-year bonds, meanwhile, have risen to 5.55 percent, from 5.44 percent before the attacks. 
These yields are telling, bond strategists say. Short-term rates reflect economic prospects in the near term, while long-term rates give the longer view. The widening spread between them shows that investors' views are diverging. If investors felt the economy was going to be weak indefinitely, securities with longer maturities would do better than those that mature in the near future. 
Along with the brightening long-term pictures, bond market participants were heartened to see that transactions agreed to in recent days actually settled yesterday for the first time. Fears of problems eased as few glitches were reported. Trading remained light, and most of the transactions came from managers who felt they had to exit positions, traders said.
"People are still concerned about the immediate outlook, so there's a heightened desire to stay safe and liquid and short," said Robert DiClemente, chief United States economist at Citigroup. "People are willing to pay a high price for safety, and that's what is really driving these short-end yields into the ground."
Another reason that the prices of long-term bonds slipped yesterday was a growing awareness that the government's plan to buy back Treasuries is ending. In the days of budget surpluses, attention had turned to a day when there would be little government debt outstanding. Treasury bonds had become a hot commodity among insurance companies and other investors looking to lock in income over long periods. Now, the government will probably issue additional bonds. And people who had been willing to pay more for something scarce are anticipating days of plenty. 
The Japanese were said to be big sellers of long-term Treasuries yesterday. Some traders also speculated that insurance companies, as a group the largest holders of long-term government issues, were selling to raise money needed to cover losses created by the World Trade Center implosion.
Some traders said they were perplexed that consumers had not rushed to refinance their mortgages at new, low rates. Refinancings, which allow people to take cash out against their home equity or to make smaller monthly payments, are considered crucial to keeping the consumer confident and spending. The rates on 30-year mortages have fallen to 6.63 percent.
"Once people sit down and reflect, there's bound to be a surge," Mr. DiClemente said. "That is going to stabilize the economy."
If short-term rates fall to 2 percent, as investors are betting, and the economy does not restart, what then? Such is the problem facing Japanese policy makers. But few see much likelihood of that here. 
"The market seems to be saying they believe three to five months down the road, things won't be as bad," Mr. Jonas said. "Let's hope they're right." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); FUTURES (79%); BOND MARKETS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



555 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Gross domestic product vs. gross domestic well-being.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.com.

 BODY:
SHORTLY after the planes slammed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon last week, a reporter called to ask, "What effect will the terrorist attacks have on the economy?"
 "That's the least of it," I replied. How can one even begin to consider the economic costs before the human toll is known? The reporter sheepishly confessed that his assignment was to cover "the least of it." Indeed, he himself was supposed to have been covering a conference in the World Trade Center that fateful morning and was lucky to have overslept and missed it. In the aftermath of the tragedies of Sept. 11, I find myself compelled to address "the least of it" as well. 
 Economists try to answer questions like this by looking at past experiences and relying on theoretical reasoning. Though there is nothing like these monstrous attacks to draw on, experiences with natural disasters might provide clues.
Most research finds that natural disasters like earthquakes and hurricanes have a relatively small impact on the economy. George Horwitch, a Purdue economist, provides a striking example in a recent study of the earthquake that struck Kobe, Japan, in January 1995, the most destructive ever in a modern city. Some 100,000 buildings were destroyed, and 250,000 damaged. More than 300,000 people became homeless, and 6,500 lost their lives.
Yet within 15 months manufacturing output returned to 98 percent of its pre-earthquake trend level. By July 1996, all department stores and 79 percent of small shops had reopened. Investment boomed. Similar stories can be told about Hurricanes Andrew and Hugo and other natural disasters.
Even the severe bombing of German cities in World War II did not deter growth after the bombing stopped. German output grew 148 percent from 1947 to 1955, and well surpassed its prewar level.
Some disasters, however, have caused lasting economic damage. For example, Newark never fully recovered from the riots of the 1960's. The rioting and the looting are believed to have undermined faith in the government and market there; by contrast, the terrorist attacks seem to have strengthened Americans' resolve to work together and trust their system and public servants.
The conventional wisdom is that disasters, natural and otherwise, typically have only a modest effect on economic activity because human capital -- the knowledge and skills embodied in the citizenry -- survives intact. In modern economies, human capital accounts for as much as 70 percent of national income.
Buildings and machines can be rebuilt, debris can be swept up; the key to production is people and human knowledge and skill, and a system that allows resources to be put to maximal use.
The economic costs are also dampened because output, including services, can be produced using different combinations of resources. Financial firms, for example, are cleverly finding new sources of office space, including hotels.
Some economists have predicted that the tragic events in New York and Washington could possibly do some economic good by stimulating investment and unlocking the Social Security lockbox. But there is something profoundly wrong with the way we measure economic well-being if this tragedy leads to the conclusion that some economic good was achieved. Pain and suffering do not enter into national income statistics; destroyed buildings do not subtract from the gross domestic product; and the option of tapping the budget surplus was always available.
If the conventional wisdom is correct, the terrorist attacks -- horrific as they were -- are unlikely to knock economic production far off track a year from now.
The conventional wisdom might not be the end of the story, however. James R. Hines Jr. and Christian Jaramillo of the University of Michigan are studying the effects on economic growth of 728 earthquakes in 97 countries in the postwar period. Their results suggest that although severe natural disasters do not affect short-term growth, they do reduce G.D.P. around 2 percent three years later.
The reason is that after the investment boom subsides, the capital stock is still less than it otherwise would have been. In addition, disorganization and government missteps in reaction to disasters can curb longer-term growth.
Of course, the economy was already teetering on the brink of recession before the attacks. G.D.P. grew at a 0.2 percent annual rate in the second quarter of 2001, down from 5.7 percent a year earlier.
But focusing on whether the economy crosses a line into a recession -- which is just an arbitrary threshold -- misses the point that the reaction to the tragedy could affect the longer-term level of economic activity more than the direct effect of the destruction wrought by the attacks, and ignores the fact that economic well-being depends on much more than the G.D.P.
There is a limit to how much one can extrapolate from past disasters to the current situation. The impact of this tragedy would seem to depend on repercussions from at least three factors that cannot be predicted with any confidence.
The first is consumer behavior. Frankly, economists were already puzzled why consumer spending was so strong in recent months despite the stock market decline. Consumer confidence could plummet, dragging consumer spending down with it. Because consumer spending represents two-thirds of G.D.P., just a 3 percent drop in consumption this quarter would cause growth to contract at an 8 percent annual rate.
Second, the government's response is unknown, and the response to the government's response is also unknown. A war, if it occurs, could raise the price of oil and weaken the economy, as it did during the Persian Gulf war. Even without a war, a large call-up of reserves could disrupt civilian production.
It is also possible that the United States would turn inward and restrict trade and immigration.
Third, failures in leading industries, like finance and transportation, could impair the economy. These industries are critical because they facilitate trade and investment in other sectors. Although the financial markets are functioning and most financial firms are back on their feet, many airlines face the risk of insolvency.
The concrete forecasts of economic recovery or decline proffered by pundits stand in sharp contrast to the cautious and deliberate approach exercised by public officials in determining the casualties and perpetrators of this heinous crime. For now, the economic watchword should be uncertainty. And uncertainty itself is usually not good for the economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rescue workers in Lower Manhattan walk by the statue of a bull, the symbol of a strong market. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RIOTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (74%); WEATHER (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AIRLINES (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); RETAILERS (64%); WORLD WAR II (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; DISASTERS 

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ;ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



556 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: GERMAN SECURITY; 
The Frankfurt Airport Steps Up Its Scrutiny

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Among the 63,500 employees at Frankfurt's giant airport there are almost as many nationalities as there are among the millions of passengers who pass through the airport each year.
 Nobody can say exactly how many of the employees are not German. But roughly 13,000 people are employed by Fraport A.G., the big company that runs Europe's second-largest airport, after Heathrow Airport in London. 
 Klaus J. Busch, Fraport's senior vice president for communications, estimates that roughly one-third to one-half -- or more than 4,000 people -- are not German. They come from about 40 countries, he said. 
But before anyone is hired for a permanent job, or a plumber is sent in to repair a broken sink, the names are run through computers of the state police in Hesse (Frankfurt is its biggest city) and at Germany's domestic intelligence service. The background of every employee is checked.
Thomas Uber, the spokesman for the Economic and Transport Ministry in Hesse State, which is responsible for the checks, said about 1,200 such checks are done every month. About 10 percent to 20 percent of applicants are turned down, he said.
"Except for minor things, like theft, we have never had a security problem involving an employee," Mr. Uber said. 
Still, air-travel security in Germany, already rated among the best in the world after Israel, is about to be tightened. In the wake of the terrorist attacks in the United States, the German government today approved a $1.4 billion package of measures to tighten security, including at airports.
Kurt Bodewig, the federal minister of transport, said the measures would include wider security checks for prospective airport employees, whose names will now additionally be run through computers at Germany's military intelligence service; at the B.N.D., the German equivalent of the C.I.A., and the files of the former East German intelligence service, the Stasi.
"The extent of the checks and the criteria we apply will be broadened," Mr. Bodewig told a news conference in Berlin called to announce the measures. But security checks, though crucial to safety at Frankfurt, do not exhaust its arsenal for assuring safety for the more than 50 million visitors who pass through the airport each year.
Passengers boarding the roughly 600 flights that leave Frankfurt daily, domestic and international, pass through metal detectors and undergo personal searches. Their luggage, including carry-on bags, is examined. 
This week, security officials began subjecting passengers boarding flights to North America to a second search and to security questioning, Mr. Busch, the Fraport employee, said, to comply with a request from the F.A.A. in the United States.
Security measures prevent Mr. Busch from receiving visitors in his office, so he meets them in a nearby hotel, where he explained that one reason for the widespread use of non-Germans is that immigrants often take manual labor like baggage handling and packing cargo on pallets. At American airports, such jobs are contracted out to specialized companies. Here, they are done by Fraport. 
The roughly 500 companies in addition to Fraport that employ people at the airport, from airlines to travel agencies to duty-free shop operators, must submit the names of any new permanent employees for security checks. Construction and maintenance companies that intend to employ workers temporarily at the airport must do likewise and the employees are then issued temporary clearances, Mr. Uber said.
Mr. Busch said the German drive for greater airport security got its first major push in the late 1970's in reaction to the wave of urban terrorism that swept West Germany. German sensitivity to issues of flight safety was also a product of the cold war, he added, in which West Germany was a front-line state. 
In 1977, for instance, German and Palestinian hijackers, who often enjoyed the backing of East Germany, seized a Lufthansa jet that left Frankfurt for Majorca. After crisscrossing the Mediterranean, the plane landed in Somalia where it was stormed by German antiterrorist troopers. Three hijackers and the pilot were killed.
But tight security introduced after the 1977 hijacking has not spared Frankfurt violence. In 1985, a bomb exploded in one terminal, killing several members of a family from Australia. No one claimed responsibility, and the case remains unsolved. 
In 1988, it was baggage checked through Frankfurt to London and onward to the United States that concealed a tape-recorder bomb that destroyed Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland.
In 1993, a jetliner taking off from Frankfurt was hijacked by a German passenger who smuggled a gun through security controls. But the plane landed in Hanover with no loss of life. The hijacker, who was taken into custody unharmed, was found to be mentally unbalanced.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A federal guard armed with an assault rifle watching the crowds at Frankfurt Airport, where the highly rated security is being tightened further. (Arne Dedert/DPA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (72%); TERRORISM (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%); APPROVALS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); MISSING PERSONS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; AIRPORTS; LABOR 

COMPANY: FRAPORT AG (85%)

TICKER: FRA (FRA) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488111 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (85%); SIC4789 TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (85%)

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); HESSE, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GERMANY; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



557 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE TRAVEL INDUSTRY; 
America's Fear of Flying Has Devastating Effect On Tourist Businesses

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK and LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
With millions of people around the country putting off vacations, canceling convention plans and halting all but the most essential business trips, the nation's normally busy travel rhythms have abruptly ground down to virtual slow motion.
 The downturn in travel has most severely affected the $100-billion-a-year airline industry, but the innumerable individual decisions by Americans not to fly have had a devastating ripple effect on other businesses, including hotels, resorts and independent taxi drivers, whose livelihoods depend on airport travelers. 
 Many travel agents report that bookings have fallen off by half or more. While New York and Washington, the sites of the terrorist attacks, have had especially precipitous drops in bookings, the effects of the falloff in travel are being felt across the country and beyond. 
In Las Vegas, cancellations are pouring in. The International Vision Expo, a trade show for the optical equipment industry that was to have 18,000 participants this weekend, has been called off; so have more than 240 other conventions, trade shows and meetings scheduled in the city in coming weeks. 
Miriam Morris, a talent manager from Los Angeles, who was to attend a wedding this weekend at the Monte Carlo hotel and casino, will not be in Las Vegas either. "I think everyone has canceled besides the bride and groom," Ms. Morris said. "It was just not the right time to be going to Vegas to celebrate." 
People are also staying away from other convention cities, like Orlando, Fla., and San Francisco. On the streets of New Orleans, it is easy to find parking space, easy to find a restaurant table, easy to walk down streets that are usually humming with tourists.
Beaches, hotels and restaurants in Hawaii are eerily quiet. "It hasn't been this bad since the gulf war, when we just sat here all day," said Tom Cameron, a beach boy in flowered board shorts who had no customers for his surf lessons. Dennis Sambrano, another beach boy, said: "I've never seen the beach this empty except when there's a big storm."
No one knows how long the rate of cancellations and delayed trips will last, though some in the industry are expressing optimism that some normalcy will return as people discover that such trips are not as much of a logistical inconvenience as first feared -- or as they are lured back by the bargains that airlines and hotels will offer to get back business. 
Nicki E. Grossman, president of the Greater Fort Lauderdale Convention and Visitors Bureau, said that hotel cancellations and other lost business had been staggering, but that she hoped they would be short term. 
"We're not seeing any cancellations after Oct. 1, and that may be a good sign," Ms. Grossman said. "This is America. This can't last. We've got hotels willing to come up with package deals to keep business going. In the long term, we're going to pull out of this and be fine. It's not going to be business as usual, but we're hoping it will be business."
There is no one reason people are not traveling. Some express a new fear of flying in general or hijacking in particular; many more say they fear the logistical problems. Others say their own economic situation seems much more precarious, leading them to cancel plans for vacations. 
And many simply say this: They do not feel like taking a trip anymore. 
At Sol Duc, a resort on Washington State's Olympic Peninsula, about as far as it is possible to be in the continental United States from the sites of the attacks last week, two-thirds of the guest rooms are empty. 
"People are calling in and saying they just don't want to come, they don't want to leave their homes, they don't want to leave their families," said Keli O'Hara, a reservations clerk at the hot springs resort. 
At least for the short term, the impact of the drop in travel is swift and widespread, leading to hundreds of millions of dollars of lost revenue and tens of thousands of layoffs. The industry was already being pinched by the effects of a recession; but this, officials says, is like being hit by a sledgehammer. 
"Airlines are the vehicle, for the most part, for delivering guests and business travelers to our doors and if people are not flying, they are not staying in our hotels," said Jonathan Tisch, chairman and chief executive officer of Loew's Hotels and chairman of the Travel Business Roundtable, an organization of executives from 60 of the largest travel companies in the United States.
"If they are not in hotels," he added, "then they are not eating in our restaurants or shopping in retail." 
In Central Florida, where at least one in every five jobs is directly dependent on tourism, many hotels are at less than 25 percent capacity, much less than half the usual rate, said Richard Maladecki, president of the Central Florida Hotel and Lodging Association. 
"This will be the worst month in the history of Central Florida," Mr. Maladecki said. Some hotels look like ghost towns. 
"We are not getting any calls for reservations," he added. "It's quite the opposite. We're the ones calling them. Our hotels are calling those who have reservations, to see if they are still coming." 
Some businesses that operate on tight margins to begin with are especially worried about surviving, and say that no one in Congress seems to be talking about a bailout package for them. Independent taxi drivers who rely on airport pickups seem particularly vulnerable. 
"Basically, the airport is our business," said Patricia Stephens, president of Stita, the Seattle owner-operated cab company that has an exclusive contract to pick up passengers at the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, to which the company pays $2 per trip. "We have a lot of cabs that are sitting around a long time." 
Although the short-term damage is severe, the travel industry hopes for at least some relief from the road warriors of American business. While some companies are telling employees to stay put for cost or security reasons, plenty of others emphasized in interviews yesterday that they were continuing to visit and support clients in person. 
"Flying isn't an option for us -- we have to take care of our customers," said Gary Nelson, president of Advanced Financial Solutions, an Oklahoma City developer of check-processing software, sounding the mantra of many service-based company. 
Leisure travel could be more resilient than business travel, said Rolfe Shellenberger, the senior travel consultant for Runzheimer International, a management consulting concern in Rochester, Wis. Once the fear factor fades, Mr. Shellenberger said, leisure travelers, who make up 60 percent to 70 percent of airline passengers, will come back when there are lots of bargain fares to tempt them. 
In Hawaii, where many hotels that normally have 80 percent to 85 percent occupancy rates were at 40 percent or lower.
Some of the canceled trips, of course, represent revenue that is lost forever to airlines, hotels, restaurants and other service companies. Others could be rescheduled.
Anna Costantino, a marketing professional in Houston, said she postponed a business trip to Moscow that was scheduled to begin last weekend. 
"It was more my personal comfort level," Ms. Costantino said yesterday. But, she added, she had tentatively rescheduled the trip for October. 
"Somehow life will be normal again," she said, but second-guessed herself, as if anything would ever feel normal for Americans again, then concluded: "Eventually everybody will get back to business. You just have to do it." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Las Vegas Strip, normally bustling with pedestrians and automobile traffic, was quiet yesterday. (Associated Press); Ilir Gega and his son, Genti, 2, had Disney World's Main Street U.S.A. virtually to themselves yesterday. (Gregg Matthews for The New York Times); Waikiki Beach in front of the Hilton Hawaiian Village in Honolulu was nearly deserted at 11 a.m. yesterday. (Cory Lum for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (93%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); TERRORISM (74%); RESORTS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); MISSING PERSONS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); TOURISM (69%); BEACHES (68%); SURFING (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; TRAVEL AGENCIES AND AGENTS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

PERSON: ;VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



558 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Software: Adobe Warns On Outlook 

BYLINE:  By Chris Gaither (NYT) (Compiled by Alan Krauss) 

 BODY:
 Shares of Adobe Systems Inc. slid 13.3 percent after the graphic design software maker warned that it would miss its earnings and sales forecasts this quarter. Adobe, based in San Jose, Calif., reported third-quarter earnings, excluding special items, of 28 cents a share, matching Wall Street's expectations despite a revenue shortfall. 
But the company lowered its fourth-quarter prediction to 27 or 28 cents a share, from 31 cents, because of rapidly declining sales in Japan and weak demand among American "creative professionals." Bruce Chizen, chief executive of Adobe, said the forecast did not take into account the potential impact of last week's terror attacks, which he said would hurt Adobe's business if they pushed the economy deeper into its malaise. In light of that risk, Mr. Chizen said, "anything I say today would be nothing more than a guess." Adobe's shares fell $4, to $26.10. Chris Gaither (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (88%); EXECUTIVES (54%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC 

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (96%); ADB (FRA) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



559 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
BERRY, JOSEPH JOHN

 BODY:
 BERRY-Joseph John. Of Saddle River, N.J. Joe was a victim of the World Trade Center tragedy. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Cherished father of Joseph Scott, Todd Patrick and Kimberly Ann. 
Our family and community have lost a person of great integrity, generosity and unbridled love for his fellow man. His children have lost their mentor, best friend and guiding light in all things. His wife has lost her partner, her best friend, her love. Joe was a man that always had a smile on his face and his family was his first priority. We are grateful to have had such a man in our lives and his spirit and philosophies will live through us and guide us always. Joe grew up in Woodhaven, Queens, attended Molloy High School, received his BA in Economics and Math from Queens College and his MBA from St. John's University. He was Chairman and Co-CEO of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., an investment banking firm headquartered in the World Trade Center. For the last two years, Joe was honored as one of the top fifty Irishmen on Wall Street by Irish America Magazine. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated at 12:30pm on Saturday, September 22 at St. Gabriel's Church, 88 East Saddle River Road, Saddle River, NJ. No flowers please. Donations are requested to the Joseph J. Berry Scholarship Fund, Archbishop Molloy High School, 83-53 Maton Street, Briarwood, NY, 11435, attention Brother Richard. 718-441-2100 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); RELIGION (65%); EXECUTIVES (53%) 

COMPANY: KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%)

PERSON: BERRY, JOSEPH JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



560 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. Has Failed to Trace Bin Laden's Money Trail
A six-year struggle to uncover Osama bin Laden's financial network failed because American officials did not skillfully use the legal tools they had, did not realize they needed stronger weapons, and faced resistance at home and abroad, officials say.
 Officials say they have not persuaded foreign banks to open their books to investigators and that a law that would have allowed the United States to penalize foreign banks that did not cooperate was blocked. Page A1. 

Business Goes On, With Grief
When Didier Varlet, the chief executive of the global trading firm Carr Futures, ran through disaster drills, they always involved computer back-ups, new phone lines and ways to get his employees up and running. But nothing prepared the firm for the World Trade Center disaster. "We never had a contingency review for when the people are missing," he said. Nearly half of Carr's New York workers, who had been on the 92nd floor of 1 World Trade Center, are missing. Business is continuing, but with obvious strains. C4.

Stimulus Plans Under Consideration
President Bush and the leaders of both parties in Congress began considering plans to bolster the faltering economy. B1.

S.E.C. Requests Trading Records
Federal officials are preparing to extend the order waiving certain trading rules, and the Securities and Exchange Commission has requested trading records from investment houses to determine whether terrorists may have tried to profit from the attack. C6.

Insurers Speed the Claims Process
With emotions high and the reputations of insurers on the line, many companies say they have decided to pay claims swiftly without insisting on the usual documentation. C4.

Automakers Urged to Aid Economy
Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao visited Detroit to urge the auto industry to do what it can to help stimulate the economy. C4.

Patriotism Surges on TV News
Empathy with victims is a staple of news coverage, but television news has become unmistakably patriotic in the last week. C8.

Economic Effect Far From Certain
The conventional wisdom is that disasters have only a modest effect on the economy because human capital -- the knowledge and skills of the citizenry -- survives. But conventional wisdom might not be the end of the story, and the watchword should be uncertainty. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

Trade Deficit Narrowed in July
The United States trade deficit shrank to $28.8 billion in July from $29.1 billion in June, reflecting a slump in exports and imports amid slower economic growth at home and abroad. In a separate report, the Federal Reserve's regional survey, known as the beige book, said the economy remained sluggish in August and early September. C8.

Microsoft to Open Web ID System
Microsoft will announce today that it plans to open up its online identification system, which stores personal information like account names and passwords, so that it can share information with rival products that are being developed by other companies. C10.

Typhoon Hampers Cargo Shipments
Just as the world's air cargo traffic was beginning to flow again, a deadly typhoon has disrupted production in Taiwan, one of the most important suppliers of computers, semiconductors and other electronics to the United States. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks Balance of Trade, measured in billions of dollars, from February to July. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,759.13 down 144.27Nasdaq composite -- 1,527.80 down 27.2810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.70% down 0.02The euro -- $0.9306 up 0.0038The dollar -- 117.48 yen up 0.25 Graph: "TODAY" shows Housing Construction figures.August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -2.5%Graph tracks figures from February to July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DISASTER PLANNING (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); INSURANCE (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (72%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ELAINE CHAO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



561 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: La Rumorosa Journal; 
To Risk Death in the Desert: An Inalienable Right?

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: LA RUMOROSA, Mexico 

 BODY:
In recent years, more than 650 immigrants have died trying to cross the barren territory that stretches from here into southern California. Crossing it on foot, say Mexican immigration agents who patrol the area, is only slightly easier than scaling Mount Everest, requiring training and special gear.
 Still, the mountainous area between Tecate and Mexicali -- called La Rumorosa for the whispering sounds made when the winds blow through the canyons -- has become a favorite crossing area for illegal immigrants from around the world. Its jagged landscape provides ample cover from law enforcement agents on both sides of the border, but also makes it easy for disoriented travelers to get lost. 
 A few months ago, immigration agents found a group of more than a dozen men and women from the Mexican state of Oaxaca huddled under a few umbrellas. Last month, a 25-year-old woman from Guanajuato, traveling across the border with her two brothers, broke her leg climbing the canyons. She was rescued only after her brothers escaped the desert to seek help.
Nature forged this desert along the United States-Mexico border into a no man's land. Extreme temperatures turn the jagged canyons into summer ovens and winter freezers. The sand on the desert floor is rippled by footsteps and littered with haunting signs of life and death. There are Styrofoam coolers and tattered shoestrings; soda bottles and sandwich bags; driver's licenses and pocket knives. On their worst days, immigration agents find human remains. 
Now, in an effort being watched from Tijuana to Laredo, Mexican officials have decided to try to close this death trap. Starting next month, the government of the state of Baja California intends to station agents along the highway at the edge of the desert that stretches to the east and west of the city of Mexicali. The agents will prohibit trucks and buses from dropping off immigrants in isolated areas, and intercept others immigrants making their way across the sandy dunes.
Alfredo Escobedo, the director of the state civil protection agency and the author of the plan, said that the 45-mile stretch of desert had been declared a "high-risk area," much like the ridges around the Mexican volcano Popocatepetl.
Political analysts say the plan is part of Mexico's efforts to prove its willingness to be more aggressive against the tide of immigrants at a time when President Vicente Fox has pressed for new immigration agreements with the United States, including expanded guest worker programs and the legalization of some three million Mexican workers.
Critics of the plan, including human rights advocates and political opponents, charge that it violates the Mexican Constitution, which prohibits the government from impeding the free movement of its citizens. 
Mr. Escobedo confessed that he was unsure about the legalities of the effort, which is sure to be challenged in court. His job, he said, is to save lives.
"For a long time there have been protests because immigrants are dying and the government was not doing enough," he said. "We have decided we have to try to do something, and there are still protests.
"Maybe it won't work," he said of his plan. "But we have to try something."
Patrols made up of state law enforcement officers, civil protection officials and federal immigration agents will not be empowered to detain immigrants headed across the desert. However, Mr. Escobedo said, the agents will warn immigrants about the risks of crossing the border in an attempt to persuade them to turn back.
New radio towers will be installed across the desert so stranded immigrants can call for help, and officials intend to conduct regular patrols of the area by helicopter. The towers will also help agents monitor the movements of immigrants.
Critics worry that if Baja California is allowed to establish no-go zones, state governments across the 2,000-mile border will follow suit. Any plan that gives Mexican law enforcement and immigration officers more control over the movements of immigrants only puts the immigrants at greater risk of extortion, the critics charge.
Moreover, they say, such plans could shift the focus of Mexico's immigration efforts toward law enforcement, and away from complicated economic initiatives to address the poverty that propels the steady Mexican exodus.
"The government's claims in support of this plan are shallow," said Raul Ramirez Bahena, the state attorney for human rights in Baja California. "The only thing that is going to happen is that migrants will find new areas to cross. They will keep crossing and keep dying everywhere else along the border."
Photographs of some of the desert's most recent victims are kept in a scrapbook at the office of Felipe Flores, an immigration agent in Tecate. 
One photograph shows the bodies of two Dominican men who were found lying almost naked in the desert at the end of August. The two are stretched out on the desert floor as if napping in a hammock. One had propped a hand behind his head.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The desert at La Rumorosa, a fearsome route to the United States, is named for the whispering of the wind as it blows through the canyons. (Arturo Fuentes for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting La Rumorosa: Hundreds of immigrants have died in the desert at La Rumorosa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLITICS (84%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); WEATHER (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); DESERTS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONS 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (77%) THOMPSON, GINGER; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HIMALAYAS (90%); MOUNT EVEREST (88%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) MEXICO; LA RUMOROSA (MEX); CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



562 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Mideast Cease-Fire Holds In Push to Restart Talks
Israelis and Palestinians largely held their fire. Though both sides reported some violence, neither rushed to abandon the attempt to halt the clashes for 48 hours, the condition that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon had set for allowing a meeting between Shimon Peres, the Israeli foreign minister, and Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. That meeting could take place as early as today, officials said. A4

I.R.A. Reopens Contact
The Irish Republican Army offered to renew contact with the international panel charged with supervising the disarming of Northern Ireland's paramilitary groups. But it made no mention of any disarmament move of its own, a step considered essential to keep the peace accord from ending this weekend. A9

Tightening Britain's Borders
Britain said it would tighten border controls to reduce the number of people seeking asylum and to deter terrorists after the attacks in New York and near Washington. New controls would include scanners to be installed on both sides of the English Channel that could detect people hidden in vehicles. A10

Europe Considers Terror Laws
The European Commission proposed drastic changes to law enforcement because of last week's terror attacks on the United States. The proposed measures include a common definition of "terror crimes," as well as arrest and search warrants that could be enforced across the Continent and the streamlining of extradition procedures. A11

New American at the U.N.
John D. Negroponte, the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, presented his credentials to Secretary General Kofi Annan, ending a hiatus of eight months without a senior American representative. Mr. Negroponte, President Ronald Reagan's ambassador to Honduras from 1981 to 1985, was confirmed with unexpected ease after a Senate confirmation hearing held on the day after the terror attacks. A7

World Briefing A6

OBITUARIES A28-29

George Ireland
The coach who led Loyola University of Chicago to the 1963 national basketball championship while taking a visible stride toward integration in college athletics, he was 88. A28

NATIONAL A12-18

Bush Seeks Major Shift In Agricultural Policy
The Bush administration called for more conservation and international trade over the existing approach to farm policy that it said was too generous to wealthy grain and cotton farmers. The 120-page plan was a blow to several farm state lawmakers who had argued for increased commodity subsidies. A12

Seattle Mayor Unseated
Mayor Paul Schell, left, lost his bid for a second term on Tuesday, finishing third in a nonpartisan primary after a turbulent four years in which the city's image took a battering and its economy stumbled. Two veteran local leaders, City Attorney Mark Sidran and Greg Nickels of the King County Council, will face each other in November. Both are Democrats. A12

New Voting Systems Ordered
California officials told nine counties containing more than half of the state's voters to dump their punch-card voting systems and convert to more reliable methods by 2006. A18

Judges Move to Guard Privacy
The federal courts agreed to adopt relaxed guidelines for monitoring the Internet use of judges and other employees, a move that could lead to greater privacy protection for workers nationwide. The rejected language said court employees have no right to privacy when they send e-mail messages or surf the Web. A15

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Kidney Disease Treatment
A widely used class of blood pressure drugs, angiotensin-receptor-blockers, can sharply slow the progress of kidney disease in people with the most common form of diabetes, delaying by two to three years the need for dialysis or a transplant. A15

Long-Distance Surgery
Surgeons in New York performed a gallbladder operation on a patient in France by sending high-speed signals to robotic surgical tools A6

NEW YORK/REGION A20-26

Mayoral Rivals Discuss Keeping New Yorkers Safe
The six major mayoral candidates offered a mostly troubled view of New York's future as they began discussing ways the city could rebuild, prevent an exodus of business and ensure the safety of residents from future terrorist attacks. A20

The Board of Elections faces big challenges with less than a week to go before the primaries on Tuesday. Poll workers are still to be informed of the new schedule and decisions made on using paper ballots in possible runoffs. A20

Ambivalence About War
While much of the country clamors for martial retribution, with polls showing nearly 90 percent supporting a military response, many New Yorkers said in interviews that they remain ambivalent about President Bush's promised war against terrorism. Many expressed fear that any strike would spark another wave of mayhem in New York. A20

CIRCUITS G1-6

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS D1-7

Mets Give Up a Day's Pay
The Mets decided to donate a day's salary to a charity headed by the former Met Rusty Staub. The combined day's pay of 41 Mets -- 34 active players, 6 coaches and Manager Bobby Valentine -- will provide almost $450,000 to the New York Police and Fire Widows' and Children's Benefit Fund. D3

Delay for New Stadiums
Last week's terrorist attacks are expected to delay any planning for new Yankees and Mets stadiums for the near future, say sports finance experts and current and former state and city government officials. A24

And They're Off Again
As horse racing at Belmont Park officially got back to business, jockeys and bettors shared their stories. D2

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Cash Aid for Airlines
The Bush administration sent a proposal to Congress for a quick $5 billion in cash for the airlines, House aides said. C1

Border Congestion Eases
Traffic congestion at border crossings with Mexico and Canada began to ease a bit as the United States brought in off-duty customs agents and National Guard troops to relieve delays caused when security was tightened last week. C1

A Plea to Automakers
Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary, and Elaine L. Chao, the secretary of labor, made an unscheduled visit to Detroit to urge the auto industry to help stimulate the economy. C4

A Topsy-Turvy Market
Stocks plunged, then recovered sharply in the final hour of trading. The Dow closed down 144.27 points, or 1.6 percent, at 8.759.13. The Nasdaq fell 27.28 points, or 1.8 percent, to 1,527.80. The S.& P. 500 was off 16.64 points, or 1.6 percent, at 1,016.10. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Politics is adjourned; the view from Wall Street; Philip Taubman on Afghanistan.

Columnists: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E7
TV Listings E9
Crossword E7
Weather C20

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ARRESTS (75%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); COUNTIES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LAWYERS (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (66%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (65%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (65%); AGRICULTURE (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (61%); BASKETBALL (61%); COTTON FARMING (60%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); SHIMON PERES (58%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRELAND (79%); ENGLAND (79%); HONDURAS (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



563 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AIRLINES; 
White House to Seek $5 Billion As Part of Airline Rescue Plan

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ with LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The White House, working quickly to try to bolster the nation's ailing airlines, is proposing to give airline companies $5 billion in cash immediately and to help protect them from liability in last week's attacks, according to White House advisers and lawmakers.
 The plan, which was sent to Congress tonight, would not grant the airlines the $12.5 billion in loan guarantees they had requested, at least not now, despite the pleas of airline executives who said the money was needed to stay afloat. 
 President Bush will immediately direct $3 billion of the $40 billion he received from Congress last week to pay for airplane and airport security, aides said. The money and liability protections are needed for the "immediate safety and stability of the airlines," an administration official said. 
Just today, American Airlines and United Airlines announced that they would each lay off at least 20,000 workers, bringing the total of industry layoffs to 100,000.
But lawmakers and Capitol Hill aides cautioned tonight that the deal was far from done and that Congress might decide to extend the loan guarantees and ignore the liability provisions for now. Or it may wind up doing both, including offering $5 billion in cash. Some lawmakers want to ensure that laid-off workers also receive help and benefits. The House, which is working feverishly on a bill, is hoping to move legislation as early as Friday.
"Not one chip of that is set in stone," Representative Roy Blunt, the Missouri Republican who is heading the legislative effort in the House, said of the White House proposal.
Under the White House proposal, airlines would be partly shielded from lawsuits related to damages on the ground caused by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Mr. Bush would bar punitive damages. He would also funnel all lawsuits to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Compensation costs that exceeded those covered by insurance would be borne by the federal government, the official said.
The government would also extend to the airlines temporary war-risk insurance that would cover domestic flights for 180 days. Such insurance is typically available only on international flights.
Earlier in the day, airline executives told a House committee that their companies needed $5 billion in cash and $12.5 billion in loan guarantees, plus protection from liability for damages and deaths that occurred on the ground, to avert bankruptcy. Airlines executives said they would continue to assume responsibility for passenger deaths.
Painting a bleak forecast for the industry, the executives said at least three companies, including America West, would be forced to declare bankruptcy if a financial relief package was not approved. The announced layoffs today only added to the economic fallout from the terror attack. US Airways, Continental Airlines and the aircraft manufacturer Boeing have also announced big layoffs, and Delta Air Lines is expected to join them.
"This is, without a doubt, the most difficult thing I have had to do in my two decades at American," Donald J. Carty, chairman of AMR, the parent of American Airlines, said in a letter to employees.
Airlines executives testified at a hearing of the House Transportation Committee that with fewer passengers flying on airplanes and the cost of security and insurance rising, their companies could lose $18 billion to $33 billion by next summer.
Legislators of both parties, led by the House Speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, expressed strong support for the industry, and members of the House committee appeared satisfied that the airlines needed the money to keep operating. Still, members peppered the executives with questions about who would pay for airline security, how laid-off employees would be treated and whether the executives were willing to take pay cuts. Some also questioned the need for the loan guarantees.
Committee members, for the most part, did not try to exact commitments for improved service from the airlines. Instead, they emphasized the need to lift consumer confidence by making sure that people feel safe in the air. And they made clear that they wanted the government to closely oversee how any federal money was spent.
"We have to get this done as soon as possible or we will not have an air transportation system," said Representative Don Young, the Alaska Republican who heads the panel and is helping write the legislation.
Wall Street delivered another blow to the airline companies today. Moody's Investors Service, the bond rating agency, said it had downgraded the corporate debt of several airlines, including American; United, a unit of UAL; and Delta, to speculative, or junk bond, status.
Doug Parker, the chairman of America West, said his company would face bankruptcy if Congress did not approve the federal aid package, and executives warned that two other major airlines would face the same situation.
Analysts and industry executives have said that US Airways and Continental are also leading candidates for bankruptcy, without government assistance.
Hoping to begin resuscitating consumer confidence in air travel, Southwest Airlines today became the first major carrier to resume advertising since the attacks last week in Manhattan and Washington. Southwest is running television commercials resonating with patriotic music and featuring the faces of Southwest employees; print advertisements will follow on Thursday.
In their testimony to Congress today, airline executives said their companies needed not just immediate financial aid but also relief from liability concerns. American and United, whose hijacked planes were used in the suicide terror attacks, do not want to be held liable for property damage on the ground or the deaths of people who were not on their airplanes.
The airlines now have two different kinds of war-risk insurance, a policy for the plane itself and a policy covering overall liability. In both cases, the insurers can either cancel the policy or renegotiate terms in as little as a week.
Some major airlines have already received such notice. In particular, insurers have told airline executives that overall liability coverage for passengers could cost an additional $1.25 a person, or an additional $1 billion industrywide. Insurers, too, are considering severely limiting the money paid out for damages on the ground, including ruined buildings.
"Capital markets fear an avalanche of lawsuits," said Thomas W. Horton, chief financial officer of American Airlines.
Leo F. Mullin, chairman of Delta, told the House panel that the industry wanted Congress to expand an existing government insurance program that insures international flights against wartime risks to include domestic flights. The federal government's position is to provide wartime insurance coverage for international flights if appropriate, but not domestic flights, one insurance specialist said.
John F. Kelly, chief executive of Alaska Airlines, told lawmakers that his carrier had received a notice of cancellation from its insurance company and would have to renegotiate its coverage, at presumably a much higher cost.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Airline executives testified yesterday before the House Transportation Committee, including, from left, Frederick Smith, FedEx; Richard Anderson, Northwest Airlines; Leo F. Mullins, Delta Air Lines; John F. Kelly, Alaska Airlines; Douglas Parker, America West; and Thomas W. Horton of American Airlines. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); LAYOFFS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); DAMAGES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (74%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (68%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (68%); LITIGATION (68%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (68%); APPROVALS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (74%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); BOEING CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ;AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (74%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); FREDERICK W SMITH (79%); WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (75%); RICHARD H ANDERSON (58%); ROY BLUNT (56%) ALVAREZ, LIZETTE; HOLSON, LAURA M; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



564 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: CONGRESS; 
Bush and Leaders Confer on Way To Bolster Weakened Economy

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
President Bush and the leaders of both parties in Congress began considering plans today to boost the faltering economy, but they signaled that they would take time to assess the spreading damage from the terrorist attacks before deciding on a package.
 Administration officials said there were divisions within the White House about how to proceed; in Congress, the proposal by some Republicans to build a stimulus plan around a cut in the capital gains tax seemed to be losing steam. 
 Before joining Mr. Bush in the Oval Office, the Congressional leaders met on Capitol Hill with a group of current and former economic policy makers, including Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. Mr. Greenspan told lawmakers that it was important to bolster economic confidence but that Washington should not adopt a plan before the extent of the damage to the economy became clearer, participants said. 
But with layoffs mounting in the airline industry, the stock market skittish and the world economy weakening, the president and Democratic and Republican leaders made clear that the government was moving toward some concrete response -- beyond a multibillion-dollar bailout for the airlines that could be passed this week.
"Not only has someone conducted an act of war on us," Mr. Bush told reporters before meeting with the Congressional leaders, "our economy has slowed way down, and this is an emergency." 
"I'm going to work with Congress," he said, "to send a clear message to America, American workers, American business people, that this government will respond to this emergency."
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, an Illinois Republican, said after the White House meeting that the leaders wanted to "make sure anything we lay out there is bipartisan, is something that meets the needs of the American economy and isn't just a quick fix."
Mr. Hastert attended the White House meeting with Senators Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic majority leader, and Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican minority leader, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader.
Congress and the White House are looking at various tax and spending proposals to give the economy a lift. 
Some members of each party are interested in another immediate tax cut, perhaps a rebate that would include low-income people who did not qualify for the rebates sent out this summer. Republicans have talked about speeding the income tax rate reductions in the tax bill Mr. Bush signed into law in June.
Republicans have also floated the idea of tax breaks for business, like speeding up the schedule under which companies can deduct the costs of investing in new factories and equipment. Democrats are interested in large-scale public works programs and expanding and extending unemployment insurance.
There is still interest among Republicans in cutting the capital gains tax. But some Republican advisers said the idea was no longer at the top of their list. 
Although Vice President Dick Cheney has supported the proposal within the administration, they said, Mr. Bush and his advisers have been cool to a capital gains cut, in part because Democrats would attack it as a giveaway to the rich.
The commitment to an economic recovery package, however vague at this point, underscored how much budget politics have changed since the attack. 
Although many Democrats say the nation has to be careful not to abandon fiscal caution and miss the chance to pay down the national debt in the next decade, the fight over spending the Social Security surplus has been suspended.
Lawmakers increasingly appear to view the entire surplus, even the part from Social Security payroll taxes, to be available if necessary for military needs, reconstruction and relief efforts, and steps to keep the economy from deteriorating. 
The total surplus in the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1 is projected by the Congressional Budget Office to be $176 billion, giving Congress and the White House room to increase spending without creating a deficit.
Mr. Bush has already signed into law a $40 billion emergency spending package. Congress and the administration continued to work today on a bailout package for the airline industry that could reach $17.5 billion. Pentagon spending is expected to rise sharply.
Asked today how much of the surplus he would consider spending, Mr. Bush said that members of Congress were "mindful about government money" but that the nation was facing an emergency "the likes of which it has not seen in a long time."
One senior administration official said after the day's meetings that the president and Congressional leaders came away determined to take time to explore "what is necessary, if anything," and to move carefully.
The official said a lot of people were floating ideas and acknowledged that there were differences of opinion even in the White House about what needed to be done. 
He said the president had a lot of questions that needed to be answered. One of them, he said, is whether what has been done so far in tax cuts and spending has had time to have its full effect on the economy.
Indeed, a Republican who speaks frequently to administration officials said there had been a heated debate within the White House over how to address the economy. 
Some administration officials, he said, believe that the existing package of emergency spending, plus additional money that is all but certain to be appropriated for military spending, should be enough to jump-start the economy, especially since the Federal Reserve has been aggressive in cutting interest rates.
He said that another camp, which includes Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, was pressing for as aggressive a course as possible of additional tax cuts and spending. Mr. Lindsey made that case to the Congressional leadership today during the meeting with Mr. Greenspan, people who had been briefed on the session said.
Mr. Greenspan's "go-slow" message today matched what members of Congress had been hearing in recent days from economists.
Participants in the meeting said Mr. Greenspan counseled strongly that more would be known in two weeks about the direction of the economy and that while the economy had suffered a huge disruption in terms of business and consumer confidence, it would take time to know how permanent it was.
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, said the Fed chairman felt "we need to get a better assessment of the overall impact" of last week's terrorist attacks, but that at the same time he understood "how important psychology is for one's confidence."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney met yesterday at the White House with Democratic and Republican leaders from Congress. The officials, often at odds politically, have been finding ways to cooperate since last week's attacks on New York and the Pentagon. Mr. Bush has declared, "I'm going to work with Congress." (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); AIRLINES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HIJACKING (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); DICK CHENEY (79%); TRENT LOTT (59%); TOM DASCHLE (57%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); MITCHELL, ALISON; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



565 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: GLOBAL DOLLARS; 
I.M.F. Bankers Get Ready To Give Pakistan a Loan

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund is prepared to go ahead with a sizable loan for Pakistan and is closely monitoring the financial situation in Turkey as it seeks to counter a world economic slowdown and support front-line states in the battle against terrorism, officials said today. 
 "We have reviewed the situation and agreed" with the United States "that we need to closely monitor the situation and discuss what could be done if things get worse," said Horst Kohler, the managing director of the Washington-based lending agency. 
 Fund officials often resist providing aid for political reasons, and Mr. Kohler said today that the decision was not a response to last week's terrorist attacks. But the United States is the fund's single largest shareholder, with Europe and Japan close behind, so the fund tends to make loans to support their top diplomatic priorities. 
Along with its sister agency, the World Bank, the I.M.F. has far more money available -- about $93 billion -- than the United States or other wealthy countries to lend to poor countries and help finance its aid programs. 
Pakistan has become crucial to the American campaign to root out Osama bin Laden, the leading suspect is the terrorist attacks. Turkey is a NATO ally that straddles Europe and the Middle East and joined the United States during the Persian Gulf war. 
I.M.F. officials acknowledge that Pakistan, which has had unstable governments and a deep-rooted corruption problem, has often failed to meet goals set when the I.M.F. lends it money. Poor performance often causes the fund to reject a new round of aid.
But Mr. Kohler said today that Pakistan had recently begun performing better under an existing loan package, making it likely that discussion about a new antipoverty loan would prove fruitful. A Pakistani delegation is expected to visit Washington to discuss the matter shortly.
Officials said it was too early to say how much money Pakistan might receive. But in 1997 Pakistan received a multiyear loan designed to alleviate poverty that totaled nearly $900 million. 
In recent months, Turkey has received emergency aid packages from the I.M.F. to shore up its troubled economy. Mr. Kohler said that he still hoped that aid would prove sufficient, but that a recent spike in interest rates there "signals that the problem is not yet solved." He said a mission to that country would assess whether new aid was necessary.
More broadly, Mr. Kohler said that the fund, which will release its detailed World Economic Outlook next week, still expects the United States economy will turn up by the end of this year. He also said he expects that the world economy will avoid slipping into recession. The fund considers overall world growth of 2.5 percent or less to be a recession.
His forecast is far more optimistic than that of many private-sector economists, many of whom say they believe that the United States has already slipped into recession and that output will decline sharply in the fourth quarter. 
Allen Sinai of Decision Economics said he did not see "how you avoid the conclusion that both the United States and the world are headed for -- and area probably already in -- a full recession." 
While he declined to provide specific projections, Mr. Kohler said his optimistic forecast was based on his conclusion that the economic fundamentals in the United States and many other nations are more resilient than they have been in past crises.
Few leading economies now have large budget deficits or high inflation, for example, while most world currencies float freely, all of which the I.M.F. considers vital to sustaining economic growth.
He warned, however, that both Europe and Japan should take fresh steps to stimulate their economies and not wait for the United States to pull them out of their downturns.
Japan, Mr. Kohler said, must be more aggressive about combating deflation by buying back government debt and injecting more money into the economy. He said the Japanese authorities also must demonstrate that they intend to tackle their nonperforming loan problem aggressively. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); DESERT STORM (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); CORRUPTION (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%) KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



566 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE POLITICAL PARTIES; 
Disaster Forges a Spirit of Cooperation in a Usually Contentious Congress

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
There is something different about Washington when the Web site of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has not only stopped bashing Republicans but also quotes their speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, saying, "As a united people, we must show our colors."
 This is but the single-most striking example of a disaster-driven level of bipartisan civility not seen here in decades. Other indicators are a cessation of direct-mail fund-raising by both parties and their efforts on Capitol Hill to work together where they can, as on last week's resolution on using force against terrorists, and to postpone action and confrontation where they cannot, including the withdrawal of some Bush nominees who could not be confirmed without a fight. 
 Republicans have also moved to reach out to Democrats inside and outside Congress, not just for support against Osama bin Laden, but to seek their ideas. The most public example was the appearance today of Robert E. Rubin, secretary of the treasury under President Bill Clinton, before leaders from both parties to discuss what the government should do to stimulate the economy. 
No one knows how long these variations from the recent Washington norm will last. Democrats worry that the price of their good will may be to sacrifice their agenda for this year or longer, and that may make them restive. Even today, Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, proposed an approach to antiterrorism legislation that contradicted the administration's at some points. 
There is an election next year, with both House and Senate up for grabs, and public concern over the results and inconveniences of the antiterrorism effort could embolden Democrats, just as similar unhappiness with World War II and its domestic difficulties were seized on by Republicans for major gains in 1942.
But there is at least some hope that this spirit can be maintained. Robert S. Strauss, the former ambassador and Democratic Party chairman and a fixture here for three decades, said, "These fellows who simply despise each other are being forced to work together, and they will find out there are more good qualities in the people on the other side than they ever expected to see."
Nicholas E. Calio, President Bush's chief Congressional lobbyist, said he was gratified by cooperation.
"The president has told us we need to consult, consult and consult some more and find consensus," Mr. Calio said.
In terms of concrete actions, Congressional Republicans responded quickly to Democratic concerns about the administration's resolution on using force as being too open-ended and worked to narrow it. Both parties collaborated in resisting the idea of an emergency spending bill without a precise dollar limit. And though Mitch Daniels, Mr. Bush's budget director, said $20 billion was the limit for such a measure, the administration gave in when Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, urged another $20 billion to deal with devastation in New York and Northern Virginia.
This week Senate Democrats abandoned an effort to curb testing of an antimissile defense system, a fight they would probably have lost in the postbombing atmosphere. They also agreed to forgo a fight against John D. Negroponte, confirming him last Friday as delegate to the United Nations.
The names of two Bush administration nominees, Mary Sheila Gall to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission and Donald Schregardus to be the Environmental Protection Agency's chief enforcement officer, were withdrawn this week after the attacks last Tuesday.
Beyond those items, Senate Democrats have been putting off, on a week-to-week basis, issues they had intended to push this fall.
Anita Dunn, spokeswoman Mr. Daschle, insisted, "The Democratic agenda continues to be very important, but there is also a limited amount of time and very pressing needs that have to be addressed."
"No one is looking for a collision now, for certain," Ms. Dunn said.
Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who heads the Senate Budget Committee, said he doubted that many key Democratic bills would be acted on this year. But, Mr. Conrad said, "I don't think that changes the fundamental agenda of Democrats or of the country," which, he said, still needed prescription drug coverage and a patients' bill of rights and improved education.
Another issue on the back burner is the effort to force House action on campaign finance overhaul. Supporters have 209 of the necessary 218 signatures to bring the bill up, but Representative Christopher Shays, the Connecticut Republican who is a leader on the measure, said, "We are not focusing on that right now."
But Mr. Shays said the issue was "not going to go away" and would come front and center again when the moratorium on fund-raising ended -- a moratorium that is not airtight even now, as Mr. Hastert traveled to Georgia on Monday to raise money for Representative Johnny Isakson. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about interparty civility in Congress after the terror attacks, and an editorial the same day, misstated the timing of the Bush administration's withdrawal of two nominations. The choice of Mary Sheila Gall to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission was withdrawn before the attacks, but the action was announced later. The name of Donald Schregardus for chief enforcement officer of the Environmental Protection Agency was withdrawn shortly after the attack, but the decision was made earlier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); HIJACKING (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); BUDGETS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); WORLD WAR II (63%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%) CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (69%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) CLYMER, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



567 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Politics Is Adjourned 

 BODY:
In the second week of post-complacency America, the need for President Bush and the leaders of Congress to assemble a bipartisan package to rescue the faltering economy is becoming clearer each day. It was a particularly reassuring sign yesterday that House Speaker Dennis Hastert and other Republicans reached out to consult not only with Alan Greenspan but also former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin for ideas on what such a package might entail. Mr. Bush now has the opportunity to deliver on his longstanding pledge of a cooperative relationship with Democrats on the economy.
 Washington is a very different place now than it was two weeks ago. The Social Security "lockbox" is open, and there is universal agreement that at least $40 billion is to be spent to rebuild and prepare for new terrorist threats. Another equally large stimulus package is being considered by the White House, even though Mr. Bush had said earlier that the tax cut enacted earlier this year would by itself probably be enough to turn the economy around. 
 Wartime fervor has always, and should always, sideline narrow partisan considerations. "Politics is adjourned," Woodrow Wilson declared in 1918 as he first led Americans out of their isolationism and into a frightening new world of global responsibilities. But cooperation on details should not mean the surrender of basic principles, such as fairness in the way sacrifice is demanded. 
It also does not mean abdicating common sense. Until a few days ago, Representative Bill Thomas of California, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, had been talking about ramming through a cut in the capital gains tax, a step that would lavish 80 percent of its benefits on the top 2 percent of the wealthiest Americans. Fortunately Speaker Hastert, apparently with White House encouragement, has gotten the fire-breathing Republicans to back off what would certainly have been seen as an attempt to exploit the current crisis on behalf of the regressive G.O.P. economic agenda.
Shoring up American confidence will require smart budget policies. In terms of giving a boost to the economy, spending is more likely to have an impact than tax cuts. The plans going forward to upgrade military defenses, overhaul airport and transportation security systems and rebuild a shattered New York may themselves go far in stimulating the economy. But Congress and the administration must avoid allowing these expenditures to become excuses for cutbacks in other vital programs for children, health care and the environment, as some in Washington have suggested.
In this moment of bipartisanship, Democrats have also begun to signal that they may not fight the administration -- at least for now -- on some of its priorities, including missile defense. The White House, in turn, agreed to withdraw two controversial appointments, to the Environmental Protection Agency and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, when Democrats signaled that these would not be approved without a fight. That was a smart gesture on the part of the administration. 
But to secure true bipartisanship, Congress needs to do something far more difficult -- reconsider the gigantic tax cut enacted earlier this year. The world in which that tax cut was approved seems very distant now. At a time of military mobilization and demands for sacrifice from all Americans, Mr. Bush and Congress ought to be willing, in effect, to conscript that portion of the tax cut that takes effect a few years from now and lowers taxes on the wealthiest Americans. In terms of fairness and economic stability, it makes no sense to cut taxes for the future when the need for action now is paramount.
Mr. Bush and the Democrats are promising to lay aside their partisan squabbling. They cannot do that if either side tries to exploit the current atmosphere to push Congress into supporting an agenda from an earlier period. Congress wants to rally around. If it does so in a real spirit of cooperation, the American people will follow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (84%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); AIRPORTS (74%); HIJACKING (73%); TERRORISM (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (67%); APPROVALS (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%); AIRLINES (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); PRODUCT SAFETY (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDITORIALS; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%) ;BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



568 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: New Stadiums Slip Far Down On the List Of Priorities 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
Last week's terrorist attacks are expected to delay any planning for new Yankees and Mets stadiums for the foreseeable future, according to sports finance experts and current and former government officials.
 Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had been the driving force in seeking local aid for the stadiums, but he has not completed a plan to finance the city's estimated half-share of the estimated $1.6 billion in construction costs. 
 Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, would not directly say that the stadium plans would be sidetracked indefinitely. But he said the terror attack had pushed the stadium project to a back burner of development priorities. 
"We will focus on the most important needs," he said. "It's not that we want to forget the stadiums, but for the immediate future we're focused on the disaster downtown, because it can have such a huge impact on our economy."
Mr. Gargano's state agency had been discussing with the teams and with city officials $300 million in highway, subway and parking improvements that would go along with new stadiums, but no agreement had been reached.
Those who have been critical of the plans for new stadiums before the terrorist attacks were even more outspoken now. Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough president who is one of four major Democratic candidates in next Tuesday's mayoral primary, was blunt.
"I don't think stadiums are even in our vocabulary at this point," Mr. Ferrer said. "Not when there's a place where thousands of people who work and contribute to the economy is crumbling and needs immediate attention."
The Yankees were seeking a new stadium in Macombs Dam Park, on the north side of Yankee Stadium, and the Mets wanted a new home in the parking lot next to Shea Stadium.
"I don't know if the new stadiums are doomed, but major delays are appropriate," said John Moag, a managing director and head of the sports practice at Legg Mason Wood Walker, the investment bank, in Baltimore. "Certain things, by their nature, have to go on the back burner."
Still, some said a delay would not necessarily mean that the stadiums would never be built. "Will the disaster make things more difficult? Yes," said Salvatore Galatioto, who runs the sports practice at Lehman Brothers. "But I absolutely think these stadiums have to be built. They'll be good for the city's pride. It will be risky for any politician who brings it up now, but the projects will need someone to take that risk."
Financing two new baseball stadiums -- and possibly a football stadium for the Jets -- will be nearly impossible while 20 million square feet of office space need to be built to replace what was destroyed when the twin towers collapsed.
"These projects had the same priorities problems that stadiums always face, but never in a city that's just been attacked by terrorists," said Sam Katz, a sports finance expert. "You can't say, 'Let's spend a big chunk of money on stadiums.' "
Mets and Yankees officials would not comment. Sunny Mindel, a spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani, said, "The mayor is focusing on seeing New York City through this."
Even before the World Trade Center attacks, the candidates for the Democratic and Republican nominations for mayor were less enthusiastic than Mr. Giuliani about a large public subsidy for the stadiums, especially with the city facing a budget deficit estimated at $3 billion.
"I never heard anyone but Giuliani say it was doable," said Edward I. Koch, the former mayor. "It was dead before, and what happens only puts more nails in its coffin. It can't be done. There'll be a need for local money for more important things than stadiums."
Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor, who was the first to propose using the Long Island Rail Road storage yards on the west side of Manhattan for a Yankee ball park, added, "The argument to use government money now becomes more difficult for Mr. Wilpon and Mr. Steinbrenner as you get into this kind of calamity." 
Fred Wilpon is a co-owner of the Mets, and George Steinbrenner is the principal owner of the Yankees. 
Some of the experts said that Mr. Giuliani, or his successor, should push for renovations to Yankee and Shea Stadiums, or let the projects fade into the municipal woodwork. How long the stadium issue remains unresolved hinges on factors like the city's future financial condition.
"New York will bounce back unless we're mired in a war," said Mark S. Rosentraub, dean of the college of urban affairs at Cleveland State University. "The debate may be postponed for a year. In that context, Wilpon and Steinbrenner will talk about new stadiums and we'll play the same old game." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (95%); TERRORISM (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BASEBALL (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); AIRLINES (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BASEBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (71%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%) ;NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (72%) SANDOMIR, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



569 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MAYOR; 
In Crisis, Giuliani's Popularity Overflows City

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Perhaps it was yesterday, when the president of France proclaimed that the French had begun praising the "Maire-heros" -- which he called the French equivalent of "Rudy the Rock." Or maybe it was a few days before, when Barbara Walters promised the nation that she would reveal the mayor of New York as he had never been seen before. And surely the clues were already there last week when the president of the United States came to visit the site of terrorist devastation and the rescue workers there saved their loudest exaltation for the mayor.
 While it was unlikely just two weeks ago that many people outside the five boroughs were terribly interested in glimpsing the soul of Rudolph W. Giuliani, it is now undeniable that the mayor has become an international celebrity. 
 While Mr. Giuliani's popularity has understandably swelled in New York City, it also appears to be expanding nationwide and even to the world, as he presides over the cleanup after the worst terrorist attack in the history of this country. In the last week, Mr. Giuliani has been on every network morning news program; sat across from Ms. Walters, the queen of the televised emotional exploration; and was button-holed by Tom Brokaw, who spoke later of the interview with glowing terms for the mayor. 
Newspapers from Australia to England sing his praises. Here is the news from The Ottawa Citizen: "It has been a week since a terrorist attack leveled the World Trade Center and, thanks largely to his uncanny ability to appear to be everywhere during this grim period, New York's mayor has risen from the ashes of the tragedy as an unequivocal hero of the moment."
Yesterday, the mayor's makeshift pressroom at the command center was jammed with European journalists, many of them traveling with President Jacques Chirac of France, all taking furious notes on the mayor's remarks, which included imploring Mr. Chirac to lend support in the fight against terrorism. And today, the British are coming, including Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
All this attention to the man whose press aides were needling reporters a month ago to write a few lines on his latest health care initiative during a news conference in a sporting goods store.
Indeed, Mr. Giuliani, whose most recent spate of national attention centered on the very public nature of his messy divorce and his relationship with Judith Nathan, has now risen to national hero and political comer. "I had no opinion of the mayor of New York," said Elizabeth Lach, a marketing director in Chicago. "What I knew about him was that he had problems with his wife, had cancer and pulled out of a Senate race. But now, he strikes me as someone who has a good mix of compassion and is yet really strong. He seems very natural in his role."
In New York City, these feelings have manifested themselves in frequent suggestions by voters that they defy the city's term limit laws and elect the mayor for a third term. For his part, the mayor subtly shifted from a complete rejection of that idea yesterday to saying: "This is not the time to talk about that. Yes, those are things to talk about and discuss, but it almost doesn't seem right to be talking about that right now." 
It is a question the mayor has been asked over and over again in the past week, as a chant of "Four more years!" follows him around. He has dismissed it at times, and early on said he would not want terrorists to think they could disrupt democracy.
As this week progressed, though, some close to him have said there is growing concern in the administration over a successful transition to a new mayoral team, which may be leading to his vaguer choice of words. 
Overturning the term limits law would require state legislation. 
Others have suggested that the mayor would be perfect to oversee the new city commission being created to revitalize New York's devastated downtown or a terrorism task force, or should serve in some other role that would keep his hands in city affairs. Some citizens see him rising to a national level, although there are no job openings at present. 
"People not only in New York City, but people in Chicago and all over the country have been talking about Mayor Giuliani," said Chris Chiappetta, 29, a construction worker in Chicago. "The way he has been doing things, I'd have no problem seeing him in a capacity on a national level."
At the moment, the mayor plays grim tour guide for national leaders and foreign officials. Yesterday, he and Mr. Chirac viewed the site by air. Today, the mayor will lead a Congressional delegation through the area. He has said he finds these tours an unpleasant but necessary tool in securing support for the recovery, including federal financing. 
The mayor has had to carefully balance tough talk, bullish optimism and comfort and empathy. During his press briefing yesterday, the mayor sought to explain why he and his aides had decided to scrap a large memorial service this weekend in Central Park, saying that the city was not emotionally ready and that it would be a drain on the police force.
Instead, the city will hold what the mayor called a prayer service, not a memorial service, in Yankee Stadium, distributing tickets chiefly to relatives of the victims and the missing. The service is to be televised at the minor league stadiums in Brooklyn and Staten Island, two of the mayor's pet projects.
He had to deliver some bad news. Asked about the faltering economy and the volatile stock market, Mayor Giuliani predicted that the city would lose a lot of tax revenue in the next fiscal quarter. He quickly added that people should go on with their lives and that there "was no reason that anyone had to lose their job."
Then he resumed his role as lead cheerleader and morale booster. "I really do think that people should start thinking much more optimistically than they are," he said. "By that I mean, there's no question everybody is sad. We're mourning, we hurt and we're going to hurt tomorrow, the next day, for a month, a year, and maybe forever. I think we are going to hurt forever. But we have to be optimistic. There's no reason for us not to be optimistic. All the same things about our economy are there that were there before. We have a big problem to overcome. But overcoming the economic problems are the least of it. I mean I have no doubt the city is going to be economically stronger six months and a year from now."
It is that attempt to balance empathy with a caring push that has impressed many Americans, and foreigners, who have noted that President Bush has not always mastered it. "I'm very impressed with him, even though I'm a Democrat," said Michele Hubbs, a photo studio manager in Los Angeles. 
"I was upset with his perspective on the arts and the way he went after the Brooklyn Museum," she said. "I think he's done a wonderful job in holding New York together, and quite possibly making the rest of the country feel like New Yorkers at this time. I heard someone say he looks like our next president. As a Democrat, frankly I don't know about that. I wonder how Bush feels."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about the growing international reputation of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani referred incompletely to the source of an article about him in The Ottawa Citizen. It was reprinted from The Record of Hackensack, N.J.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, left, with President Jacques Chirac of France on an aerial tour of the trade center site yesterday. (Pool Photograph by Patrick Kovarik, via Associated Press)(pg. A1); Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani with Gov. George E. Pataki, left, and Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, at the site on Tuesday. Today, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain is to visit New York. (Pool Photograph by Timothy A. Clary, via Associated Press)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MAYORS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (75%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); CELEBRITIES (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); WRITERS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS 

COMPANY: OTTAWA CITIZEN (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (93%); JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); BARBARA WALTERS (71%); TONY BLAIR (50%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); HANOVER, DONNA; NATHAN, JUDITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); FRANCE; AUSTRALIA; EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



570 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AUTOMAKERS; 
Detroit, With Its Sales Falling, Is Urged to Help Spur Economy

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Two top Bush administration officials made an unscheduled visit to Detroit today to urge the auto industry to do what it can to help stimulate an economy on the brink of recession.
 Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary, and Elaine L. Chao, the secretary of labor, met with top executives of the Big Three automakers -- General Motors, Ford Motor and the Chrysler Group -- which had already lost market share this year to foreign manufacturers before the terrorist attacks last week on New York and Washington. 
 Since then, the automakers have reported stagnant sales, as well as some production troubles and parts shortages because of transportation problems. Now their quandary is how best to cope with new sales declines: by increasing incentives to make vehicles cheaper or by cutting production. 
Most analysts say that the Big Three have the most to lose as auto sales slump over all. 
"They are expected to bear the brunt of any sales weakness," Stephen J. Girsky, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report this week. He added that companies like Honda and Nissan were still more attractive investments. 
Investors seem to agree. Shares of G.M. are down 18.9 percent since the attack, while Ford is off 15.3 percent and DaimlerChrysler, the parent of Chrysler, is down 21 percent. 
Ford said last week that it would cut production by 110,000 to 120,000 vehicles. The company had problems as parts made in Canada and Europe were hindered from reaching plants in the United States because of border closings and air transportation curtailments.
But the Bush administration would prefer that automakers, instead of making fewer vehicles, address weakening demand by making vehicles cheaper to buy, even if such a step cuts into profits. After the meeting today, G.M. said it would offer interest-free loans over three, four or five years to buyers of all its 2001 model cars -- an offer it has not made before -- and offered three-year interest-free loans for its 2001 trucks and 2002 cars and trucks. The plan, Keep America Rolling, had been in the works since last week. 
"We don't think this is the time to make your numbers by retrenching, by cutting back or by being like a turtle crawling into its shell," said William J. Lovejoy, G.M.'s group vice president for vehicle sales, service and marketing. 
"We have faith in America," he added. 
Dieter Zetsche, the chief executive of Chrysler, said, "It's important not to overreact and not try to pre-empt shortfalls on the demand side with production cutbacks."
Mr. Zetsche attended the meeting today along with G. Richard Wagoner Jr., the chief executive of G.M., and William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman of Ford. Gov. John Engler of Michigan and Senator Debbie Stabenow were also at the session, as were Stephen P. Yokich, president of the United Auto Workers, and John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
Government officials and economists are closely watching auto sales because they account for a significant part of the nation's economic output and are a barometer of American consumer confidence. 
"There's every reason to have confidence in this economy," said Mr. Evans, the commerce secretary. 
But auto analysts find many reasons to worry. This week they cut their estimates for vehicle sales for 2001 and warned of increased hurdles for Ford, G.M. and Chrysler, which have lost ground this year as foreign automakers like Toyota aggressively enter the market for sport utility vehicles. Last week, auto dealers around the country said that sales had fallen sharply, and that was confirmed by a report from J. D. Power & Associates that showed a steep drop in sales since the attacks on Sept. 11. 
"Last week's tragic events are causing consumers to postpone purchases of new light vehicles and may drive the economy into a short-term mild recession," W. Van Bussman, senior vice president at J. D. Power, said in a statement. 
The rate of vehicle sales in September is expected to fall by half a million, from 15.8 million vehicles to 15.3 million vehicles, said Haig Stoddard, the manager of industry analysis for Ward's Automotive, an auto industry data service in Southfield, Mich.
"I'm expecting October to remain subdued, and maybe November as well," said Mr. Stoddard, adding that he believed the seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales for cars and light trucks in the fourth quarter would be 15.5 million to 16 million. Last year, the auto industry sold 17.8 million cars and light trucks, a record.
Over all, sales were surprisingly strong in the first half of the year, but the annual rate slowed to 16.2 million vehicles in July and 16.4 million in August. The slowdown prompted by the terrorist attacks will cut the year's auto sales to 16.5 million from 17 million, according to analysts at Deutsche Bank. 
"Our confidence in the earnings outlook for G.M. and Ford is quite low," Deutsche Bank analysts said Tuesday in a report. 
The report was titled "No Need to Rush Into Auto Stocks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yesterday in Detroit, Stephen P. Yokich of the United Auto Workers, left, chatted with William Clay Ford Jr., chairman of Ford Motor, and Dieter Zetsche, chief executive of Chrysler. At rear were Representative David E. Bonior and Lt. Gov. Dick Posthumus of Michigan. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); INTEREST RATES (62%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (51%) AUTOMOBILES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT; GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (73%); DIETER ZETSCHE (69%); RICK WAGONER (56%) HAKIM, DANNY; EVANS, DONALD L (SEC); CHAO, ELAINE L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



571 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OVERVIEW; 
BUSH ORDERS HEAVY BOMBERS NEAR AFGHANS; DEMANDS BIN LADEN NOW, NOT NEGOTIATIONS

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
President Bush ordered heavy bombers and other aircraft to within easy striking distance of Afghanistan today and insisted that its ruling Taliban turn over Osama bin Laden and other suspected leaders of a terrorist organization believed to be behind last week's attacks in New York and Washington.
 The White House also announced that Mr. Bush would address a joint meeting of Congress on Thursday evening to lay out his aims for what he has called a global war on terrorism and to detail the sacrifices that might be asked of the American public. 
 The military deployments ordered today involved about two dozen bombers, tankers and support aircraft. In addition today, the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt and its accompanying battle group left Virginia and headed eastward to an undisclosed location. 
With the carrier's air wing of about 70 attack aircraft, the United States was moving nearly 100 aircraft to a region where there is already a robust American military presence.
Today's deployments form the first wave of a Pentagon campaign that the president has described as a broad and sustained war on those behind the last week's terror strikes.
Mr. Bush told world leaders in meetings and telephone calls today that the coalition he hopes to build bore little resemblance to the one assembled for the Persian Gulf war in 1991 or any other American war. He has repeatedly said the United States also reserves the right to act alone in self-defense.
To prepare the political ground for the coming conflict, in whatever form it might take, Mr. Bush will use his speech in the well of the House of Representatives on Thursday to "make the case of why we are entering this long struggle," his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, said today. He will argue, she said, that unless the United States takes the battle to the countries that terrorists use as their base of operations, the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon last week are certain to be the first of many on American soil.
Ms. Rice went to some lengths to discourage comparisons to Franklin D. Roosevelt's "date which will live in infamy" speech that was delivered from the same lectern almost 60 years ago. 
"This is not Pearl Harbor," Ms. Rice said, noting that after the 1941 attack the American military had a clear target -- Tokyo -- and a way to measure victory. Repeating Mr. Bush's statements that in the coming battle "there are no beaches to storm and islands to take," she said this would be "a war of will and the mind," in which intelligence would be the most important asset. "So we are asking a lot of countries for information," she said, rather than for troops or other military assets.
Without a clear target, Ms. Rice did not appear to resolve the question of what would constitute victory for the Bush administration in a struggle it describes as a war.
Mr. Bush's speech will undoubtedly touch on the economic costs of the terrorist attacks at a time of economic slowdown, and White House officials said again today that they were looking at proposals for economic stimulus, beyond just a bailout for airlines. The president, asked at a meeting with Congressional leaders about his promise last month to use the Social Security surplus only in time of recession, war or other emergency, said current conditions had more than met his test.
"Not only has someone conducted an act of war on us, our economy has slowed way down, and this is an emergency," Mr. Bush said. "We've had all three, it seems like to me."
It is convenient for the administration to characterize the coalition it is building as a flexible one, as Ms. Rice did today. That is the only way to embrace the handful of countries likely to commit troops and equipment, those like Pakistan that are now committed to sharing intelligence and allowing flights over their territory and others, including Russia and China, that seem unlikely to offer more than quiet encouragement and perhaps some covert aid.
Mr. Bush acknowledged as much today as he sat in the Oval Office with President Megawati Sukarnoputri, the new president of Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim country. 
"We fully understand that some nations will be comfortable supporting overt activities," he said. "Some nations will be comfortable supporting covert activities; some nations will only be comfortable in providing information; others will be helpful and only feel comfortable helping on financial matters. I understand that."
Mrs. Megawati is a case study in the political anguish some nations endure by endorsing Mr. Bush's effort. While she is the daughter of Indonesia's founding leader, Sukarno, her own hold on power is tenuous as she tries to keep Islamic radicals at bay and contain a host of separatist movements that threaten to split the Indonesian archipelago apart. Today, she expressed sympathy with Mr. Bush's cause but stopped well short of committing her country to aiding the American effort, just as President Jacques Chirac of France made no commitment of forces when he saw Mr. Bush on Tuesday. 
Mr. Bush also met with Igor S. Ivanov, the Russian foreign minister, whose country's long effort to tame Afghanistan in the 1980's ended in failure. A senior administration official said that in meetings with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Mr. Ivanov made it clear that "they don't want to be engaged on two fronts at the same time," a reference to the continuing war in Chechnya. "Politically they want to use this to get closer to us," the official said.
In background conversations with reporters, White House officials have begun talking about the unspoken deal with Pakistan: a relatively swift lifting of economic sanctions and a resumption of the country's desperately needed loans from the International Monetary Fund. They made no mention of the fact that Pakistan continues to develop nuclear weapons -- which prompted the sanctions -- or that it has never satisfied the economic reform demands of the I.M.F.
Underscoring the secrecy -- and urgency -- surrounding any possible military retaliation, the Pentagon declined to identify the aircraft they deployed today, their home bases or their destinations.
Senior defense officials said the deployments today were only the beginning of an American military buildup in the region. The exact size and scope of that buildup is still unfolding.
"There are movements, and you will see more movements," Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D. Wolfowitz said at the Pentagon after meeting with Germany's foreign minister, Joschka Fischer.
"And I hope everyone understands -- I'm sure the American people understand -- why we do not want to reveal the details of those movements to people who may be trying to figure out what we're about to do next," he said.
The United States Central Command, the military headquarters that oversees a region from the Horn of Africa to Pakistan, has maintained a force of roughly 20,000 troops, about 175 aircraft and 14 ships, anchored by an aircraft carrier.
When the attacks occurred, the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson and its fleet of support ships were just replacing the carrier Enterprise, which has now been ordered to remain in the region, doubling the naval firepower normally there.
A third carrier, the Theodore Roosevelt, left Norfolk, Va., today with its own armada of nearly a dozen combat and support ships, including attack submarines and guided-missile cruisers and destroyers. While its departure was previously scheduled, nothing about its deployment was now routine, officials said. It had been headed to the Mediterranean Sea, but now officials declined to discuss its destination.
On Thursday, a Bataan Amphibious Ready Group will leave from a port near Camp Lejeune, N.C., enroute to the Mediterranean. The group is carrying the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit, a force of 2,100 marines equipped with helicopters, amphibious assault vehicles and artillery for speedy, small-scale attacks. 
One military official said the aerial deployment was limited -- for now -- to bombers and the aerial refueling tankers needed to support them over long distances.
In previous campaigns, including attacks on Iraq, the United States has based a number of B-52 bombers at an airfield on Diego Garcia, a British island in the Indian Ocean. Each B-52 is now equipped with cruise missiles able to travel more than 600 miles. The stealthy B-2 bomber, used in Kosovo, could reach Afghanistan from bases in Missouri with in-flight refueling, and then return to American soil.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush met in the Oval Office yesterday with President Megawati Sukarnoputri of Indonesia, above; Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of Germany, below left; and Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov of Russia. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); WORLD WAR II (78%); AIRLINES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DESERT STORM (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (70%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; MEGAWATI SUKARNOPUTRI (PRES); FISCHER, JOSCHKA (MIN); IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); INDONESIA (92%); GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; INDONESIA; GERMANY; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



572 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: In This Section 

 BODY:
 U.S. FORCES ON THE MOVE
President Bush ordered heavy bombers and other aircraft to move to within easy striking distance of Afghanistan. He repeated his demand that the Taliban rulers there turn over Osama bin Laden and other suspected leaders of the terror group believed to be behind the attacks on New York and Washington last week. Mr. Bush will address Congress tonight. A1

THE MOOD IN WASHINGTON
The Bush administration is experiencing high-level quarrels over the scope and timing of its military response to the terror attack. A1

The Senate Judiciary Committee chairman opposed administration plans to broaden government power to detain and deport immigrants suspected of terrorism, and he offered his own antiterror proposals. B6

THE RESPONSE OVERSEAS
Pakistan's military ruler, Pervez Musharraf, went on nationwide television to offer a tense, sometimes emotional defense of his decision to join the United States in the hunt for Osama bin Laden. He made no mention of the possibility of American forces using bases in Pakistan. A1

The International Monetary Fund is set to proceed with a sizable loan for Pakistan and is closely monitoring the financial situation in Turkey. B4

Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said Japan's armed forces would actively support any American reprisals for the terror attacks. B4

THE INVESTIGATION
A six-year struggle to uncover Osama bin Laden's financial network failed because American officials did not skillfully use the legal tools they had, did not realize they needed stronger weapons and faced resistance at home and abroad, officials involved in the effort say. A1

Federal agents searching for a suspected operative of Osama Bin Laden have arrested three men in Detroit after a search of their house uncovered airport identification badges and a date book with hand-drawn diagrams of aircraft and runways. B2

ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES
President Bush and Congressional leaders from both parties worked on plans to assist the faltering economy, but they signaled that they would take time to assess the spreading damage from the terror attacks before deciding on a package. B1

The nation's normally busy travel rhythms have abruptly ground down to virtual slow motion, hitting the $100-billion-a-year airline industry directly and causing a devastating ripple effect on other businesses. B3

ASSESSING THE DAMAGE
Engineers who inspected buildings near the World Trade Center said that while many showed evidence of damage, like blown-out windows or gashes on their facades, none appeared to be slumping, leaning or subsiding, and none was in danger of imminent collapse. B1

A LANDSCAPE OF LOSS
Although financial relief for survivors of those who died in the World Trade Center attacks may total in the hundreds of millions of dollars, some families now stand to receive no more than $30,000 in direct aid, according to officials involved in government and private relief efforts. A1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DEPORTATION (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); JAPAN (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



573 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PAPER TRAIL; 
Roadblocks Cited In Efforts to Trace Bin Laden's Money

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER and DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
A six-year struggle to uncover Osama bin Laden's financial network failed because American officials did not skillfully use the legal tools they had, did not realize they needed stronger weapons, and faced resistance at home and abroad, officials involved in the effort say. 
 Federal officials say they have not persuaded foreign banks to open their books to investigators and that in this country, a law that would have allowed the United States to penalize foreign banks that did not cooperate was blocked last year by a single United States senator. 
 Current laws and regulations give the government less authority to seize the assets of terrorists than of drug cartels, one federal investigator said; it may seize only assets that are the direct proceeds of terrorist violence. For drug cartels or organized crime gangs, it can seize any assets used to support their activities.
Investigators also attribute their inability to pierce Mr. bin Laden's financial network to an ancient system of cash transfers based on trust, not detailed records, that they say has spread from countries like Pakistan into the United States. 
Since last week's attacks, proposals to curb money laundering by terrorists have suddenly gained support among old opponents -- including the Bush administration -- after languishing for two years. The White House says it now wants an aggressive attack on money laundering, including stepped-up seizure of assets.
The bin Laden organization operates in 35 countries and needs to move money to its members, American intelligence officials say. Tracing the money could reveal not only terrorists' sources of support, but their intentions. 
But present and former government officials say that since the mid-1990's, they did not fully use the legal tools they had to wage this difficult fight. "We could have starved the organization if we put our minds to it," said Richard Palmer, who gained experience in money laundering as the Central Intelligence Agency's station chief in Moscow during the 1990's. "The government has had the ability to track these accounts for some time."
Congress is now reviving a proposal killed last year by Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican who was then chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. The bill, introduced by the Clinton administration, would give the Treasury secretary broad power to bar foreign countries and banks from access to the American financial market unless they cooperated with money-laundering investigations. It was strongly opposed by the banking industry and Mr. Gramm.
"I was right then and I am right now" in opposing the bill, Mr. Gramm said yesterday. He called the bill "totalitarian" and added, "The way to deal with terrorists is to hunt them down and kill them."
But the bill is gathering support from both parties. "I would be amazed if there is not a sea change," said Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat, who is sponsoring the bill with Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa. He said the opposition was based on "ridiculously phony" arguments.
Even after the attacks last week, the banking industry continues to doubt the need for new rules to combat money laundering, a lobbyist said.
Most experts say the funds used to finance the attacks here probably came into this country in small amounts either through wire transfers or through the use of brokers that belong to a paperless underground banking system. 
That system of brokers is often referred to by its Hindi name, "hawala," meaning "in trust." It enables individuals to transfer sizable sums of cash from their country to recipients in another country without the funds ever crossing borders. The system, which has spread to the United States, is particularly popular in countries like Pakistan and India where people want to avoid paying taxes or bribes to officials when transferring money across borders, experts said.
"Somebody will come into the office of a hawala broker in Pakistan and say, 'I want $100,000 to get to somebody in Vero Beach who is going to come in and identify themselves as Cupid,' " said Jonathan M. Winer, who led the State Department's international law enforcement efforts from 1994 to 1999 and now practices law in Washington. 
The Pakistani broker, Mr. Winer explained, will contact a counterpart in the United States, often using the Internet, then mail him a chit or agree on a code word to complete the transaction.
Mr. Winer said such brokers might have been used to transfer sizable sums of money destined for terrorists in this country because carrying large amounts of cash posed too many risks. 
"The two brokers have absolute trust in each other," said Rowan Bosworth-Davies, an expert on money laundering at the Control Risks Group. "They often come from the same clan and that is why nothing is written down or records kept."
Congress passed a law in 1993 requiring check-cashing businesses and informal financial enterprises like hawalas to register with the government and report transactions over $3,000. But the Clinton administration did not publish all the regulations until 1999. The Bush administration ordered a further delay until June 30, 2002. Jimmy Gurule, the Treasury under secretary for enforcement, said yesterday that the administration, in light of last week's attack, might move up the date.
The effort to track the bin Laden group's money began in earnest when President Bill Clinton signed a classified presidential order on Oct. 21, 1995. The secret order, Presidential Decision Directive 42, ordered the Departments of Justice, State and Treasury, the National Security Council, the C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies to increase and integrate their efforts against international money laundering by terrorists and criminals.
The government agencies joined together to try to penetrate the bin Laden network of businesses, charities, banks and front companies. They failed.
The ball was handed to people who were generally incompetent to handle the intricate task, said one Clinton administration official directly involved in the effort to drain or divert the money flowing in and out of the bin Laden organization.
The government agencies given the job suffered from "a lack of institutional knowledge, a lack of expertise," said William Wechsler, a National Security Council staff member under Mr. Clinton. "We could have been doing much more earlier. It didn't happen." 
Then attackers blew up two American embassies in Africa in August 1998. Richard A. Clarke, the government's counterterrorism coordinator, set up a new government team. He ordered it to find out how much money the bin Laden organization had, where it came from, how it moved around the world -- and to stop it.
"We had only marginal successes," said Mr. Wechsler, who led the new team in 1998 and 1999. The United Arab Emirates imposed money laundering laws and China banned flights by the Afghan state airline, Ariana, at the United States' urging, officials said.
The lack of great success was "mostly due to the limited assistance we received from key countries abroad," Mr. Wechsler said. He blamed "their lack of political will or weaknesses in their laws which fail to effectively regulate their financial institutions and charities." 
Until last week's attacks, the Bush administration was not much more enthusiastic about new money laundering laws than Mr. Gramm. Led by its chief economic adviser, Lawrence B. Lindsey, the administration did not want to pressure international banks in the United States and elsewhere to open their books.
Now the White House is setting up a new agency, called the Foreign Terrorist Asset Tracking Center, run by the Treasury Department with help from law enforcement and intelligence services, to try anew to track bin Laden's finances.
The financial architecture of the bin Laden organization has not changed radically since he set up operations near the Khyber Pass in the mid-1980's and worked side by side with the C.I.A. to support the rebels fighting Soviet forces in Afghanistan, United States officials said. 
"The money movement and fund-raising system is the same," Mr. Wechsler said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about unsuccessful efforts to trace Osama bin Laden's financial network gave a misspelled surname in some copies for the Massachusetts Democratic senator who is co-sponsor of a bill on money-laundering investigations. He is John Kerry, not Kerrey.
Articles on Wednesday and on Sept. 20 about an underground system of transferring money internationally mistranslated the term "hawala," by which it is known. (The error also appeared on Wednesday in the daily capsule summary of the terrorism investigations.) The word, originally Arabic and now used in several languages in Southwest Asia, means a bill of exchange or promissory note, not trust or in trust.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ASSET FORFEITURE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CARTELS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); HIJACKING (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); MISSING PERSONS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MONEY LAUNDERING; BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%); PHIL GRAMM (83%); JOHN KERRY (79%) WEINER, TIM; JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BIN LADEN, OSAMA; GRAMM, PHIL (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES ; 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001 



574 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1870 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
How Reality Affects a Play

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
Context is crucial in the theater, which only pretends to exist in a world of its own creation. Most mundanely and tangibly though not insignificantly, a show cannot escape its physical environment. It generally takes place on some kind of stage in some kind of building, the properties of which (size, location, condition) have a palpable effect on the show's artistic strategies and intent, not to mention the expectations of an audience.
 Exploring that idea was the spur for my revisit this week to "Urinetown," the marvelously self-conscious satire of the musical theater's social conscience, which focuses equally on human rights and body waste and has steadily gnawed its way from the theater's sardonic, scofflaw fringe into its most challenging mainstream marketplace. 
 The show, which remains a zesty and full-bodied original, began life in fact as a participant in the New York Fringe Festival, and given its toilet-centric plot, it was a reasonable level of entry. It became a surprise Off Broadway hit last spring, when I first saw it. And it opened last night as a full-fledged Broadway show in a sporadically used and somewhat dilapidated theater (the Henry Miller on West 43rd Street), which has been modified (but with atmosphere in mind, not really spiffed up) for the purpose. 
Even in its previous incarnation, "Urinetown" was a show that resisted easy description, both a homage to and an outlandish spoof of the Brechtian theater of outrage and provocation. The title is emblematic, so thumb-in-the-eye unpleasant that it elicits an automatic question: Are you kidding? To which the answer is yes and no.
On the one hand, with a plot that defends the human right to void one's bladder without monetary charge, the show makes a mockery of the drama of social conscience and especially the grandiose musicals that take advantage of its easy sentiment. (To that end, "Les Miserables," in particular, takes several pointed jabs.) It concerns a grass-roots revolution in a city desiccated by drought; private toilets have been outlawed and public ones are controlled by a corrupt alliance between the government and a corporation whose sloganeering propaganda is delineated in an early song, both waggish and menacing, called "It's a Privilege to Pee."
On the other hand, as in all good satire, there's a sober point lurking in its heart, in this case amounting to a kind of admonishment of American wastefulness. It's a fair, allegorical point -- we don't adequately appreciate what we have -- if delivered gently and under a tsunami of show-biz good cheer. For any theatergoer until now, what has been most serious about "Urinetown" is its unseriousness. From the opening curtain, it goes out of its way to defuse any encroaching earnestness with self-mockery.
"Well, hello there and welcome to Urinetown," a character greets us after the overture. "Not the place, of course. The musical."
It's only a show, we're told again and again, and isn't it swell?
In its former home Off Broadway, the American Theater of Actors, a warehouse-like room on the second floor of a midtown building with 135 seats on risers, I found "Urinetown" audacious and exhilarating, riotously and intelligently arch. And my intention was to assess how well the show has accommodated its step up in physical dimensions (at 635 seats, the Henry Miller is far bigger, though far from Broadway big) and also to assess the visibility that its notoriety and success have engendered.
The short answer is that smaller is almost always better for an audience and that the show has suffered incremental losses in intimacy from such things as acoustics that are still palatable but not quite as crisp as they were and auditorium (as opposed to stadium) seating that makes the audience look up at the raised stage now, rather than down onto a stage floor.
Under current circumstances, however, such observations seem critically trivial. For one thing, I first arranged for seats at "Urinetown" on Sept. 11, the day the world changed, for theater critics and everyone else. By the time the show reopened for preview performances and critical viewing, any interest I had in the revision of the show's physical plant was eclipsed by more profound and more elusive matters of context.
For another thing, "Urinetown" remains a sensational piece of performance art, one that acknowledges theater tradition and pushes it forward as well.
The individual elements of the show are extraordinary in themselves: the mordant, savvy score in the Kurt Weill vein by Mark Hollmann; the bold, jab-in-the-ribs book by Greg Kotis, which makes burlesque of melodrama and undermines linguistic cliche; the exuberantly satirical choreography of John Carrafa; the gregarious direction of John Rando; the efficiently witty (as opposed to showy) work by all the designers; and an ensemble cast that is full of grand voices precisely attuned to the score.
Further, with John Cullum as Caldwell B. Cladwell, the jaunty personification of avarice and brutality; Nancy Opel as a sellout to the forces of evil whose brassy manner hides a broken heart; Hunter Foster as Bobby Strong, the handsome leader of the revolution; Jennifer Laura Thompson as Hope Cladwell, the innocent lass torn by loyalties to her father and Bobby; Jeff McCarthy as Officer Lockstock, a charming but corrupt cop; and Spencer Kayden as Little Sally, a street urchin wise beyond her years, "Urinetown" is populated by actors who have pitched their skills and ideas to a uniform hyperbole that at almost every moment risks childishness but somehow never succumbs.
What is, in fact, most striking here is how well everything fits together in the collaborative creation of something that feels entirely original. There simply is no show I've ever seen that gives off such a sense that the creators and performers are always on the same page of an elaborate, high-spirited joke, that they are the proud members of a cabal that knows what it takes to make the world a better place and that they are thrilled to share what they know.
And did I mention that "Urinetown" is hilarious? That, for example, the courtship scene between two young lovers is conducted as a musical number ("Follow Your Heart") that is sung (by Mr. Foster and Ms. Thompson) as both a sweetly melodic duet and acted as a howling parody of innocence -- without once resorting to a sex joke? That a dance number spoofing a revival meeting ("Run Freedom Run") has the best slapstick gag about a cripple that you're ever likely to see? That whether deadpan or giddy, drawing from the Three Stooges or the history of Broadway choreography, the humor is consistently sharp and smart?
All that being said, however, it is impossible to ignore the solemnity of current events, from which the show is not entirely a distraction. Not that "Urinetown" lands with both feet on the subject of terrorists or references to the circumstances of the last 11 days, but it now seems to have been created with inadvertent prescience nonetheless. Beneath its cartoonish surface it tiptoes thematically along the edge of the grave issues that are now consuming everyone.
It tells a story, after all, that presents innocent people victimized by conscienceless evil, kills off characters by having them thrown from a skyscraper, debates the appropriateness of murderous vengeance, illustrates the rage of those who suffer in poverty and perceive cruelty in capitalism and in the end decries the presumption and wastefulness of people who don't recognize that they are privileged.
In virtually the last word, the show offers a salute to Thomas Robert Malthus, the English economist of the late 18th century, who theorized that without calamity, man made and otherwise, the world population would grow beyond the earth's ability to support it. Indeed, though the political worry the show wears on its sleeve is environmental (a water shortage provides a backdrop for its sendup of human behavior), its vision of ideological adversaries in a duel for pre-eminence and control on earth is apocalyptic, and who hasn't entertained that nightmare lately?
The result of all this is that watching "Urinetown" right now is simply the most gripping and galvanizing theater experience in town, equal parts visceral entertainment jolt and lingering provocation. The context of the historical moment makes us ask ourselves going in: Can we laugh and thrill to a musical at a time like this? And amazingly, here is a show that dares to ask that very question.
In fact, it does so almost literally, in a moment that left me shivering. Throughout, "Urinetown" always has one eye on itself; Officer Lockstock and Little Sally serve as informal narrators, and they intermittently discuss such unexpected matters as whether audiences will be put off by too much narrative exposition or whether anyone is going to want to see the show at all given its awful name and depressing conclusion. Near the end, their dialogue goes like this:
LITTLE SALLY: I don't think too many people are going to come and see this musical.
LOCKSTOCK: Why do you say that, Little Sally? Don't you think people want to be told that their way of life is unsustainable?
It's an exchange that was once merely smart mouthed and a little smug but now seems like a bold if brutal bit of sarcasm. And though it is, of course, only a fortuitous parallel to the sobering reality outside, the lines could easily have been removed by nervous producers.
That they weren't made me consider them as keenly calibrated to the momentary spirit of both the show and the world, as if the art achieved by "Urinetown" gave it license to confront a subject that cruel enemies had apparently fenced off. To me it felt as if accident and design had conspired for a defiant declaration of the power of theater.
And in the huge ovation that followed shortly thereafter, the audience agreed. When every individual spirit as well as the national one can use all the bolstering it can get, "Urinetown" is not just a recommended tonic. Its reopening under the glare of lights on Broadway places it beside "The Producers," another great musical that makes us laugh at tyranny, as a stanchion -- no, a twin tower -- of pure American vibrancy.

URINETOWN: THE MUSICAL

Music by Mark Hollmann; book by Greg Kotis; lyrics by Mr. Hollmann and Mr. Kotis; directed by John Rando; choreography by John Carrafa; set by Scott Pask; costumes by Gregory Gale and Jonathan Bixby; lighting by Brian MacDevitt; sound by Jeff Curtis and Lew Meade; wig and hair design by Darlene Dannenfelser; fight director, Rick Sordelet; orchestration by by Bruce Coughlin; musical direction by Edward Strauss; Ed Goldschneider, conductor; John Miller, music coordinator; Kai Brothers and Tech Production Services, production managers; Julia P. Jones, production stage manager; Dodger Management Group, general management. Presented by the Araca Group and Dodger Theatricals with TheaterDreams and Lauren Mitchell. At the Henry Miller, 124 West 43rd Street, Manhattan.

WITH: Jeff McCarthy (Officer Lockstock), Spencer Kayden (Little Sally), Nancy Opel (Penelope Pennywise), Hunter Foster (Bobby Strong), Jennifer Laura Thompson (Hope Cladwell) and John Cullum (Caldwell B. Cladwell).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spencer Kayden plays Little Sally in the musical "Urinetown," which opened on Broadway last night. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); CORRUPTION (74%); MUSIC (70%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: URINETOWN (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



575 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: SOUTH AMERICA; 
Sharp Blow to Already Struggling Companies

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Commercial aviation in Latin America, a region closely linked to the United States by geography, trade, tourism and immigration, was already struggling before last week's terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. Now some vulnerable carriers may be driven out of business.
 What profits the Latin American carriers have been able to glean in recent years have primarily come from long-haul flights to the United States and Europe, not domestic routes, which may be subject to price controls. But experts say those longer flights are the ones on which traffic is likely to drop off the most during the current crisis. 
 "The losses will be tremendous," said George Ermakoff, president of Brazil's national airline association. "I can't imagine anyone planning a trip abroad today without wondering what is going to happen down the line, whether there is going to be a military action that would force flights to be suspended and leave them stranded far from home."
Latin America's largest commercial carrier is Varig of Brazil, which logged a loss of more than $200 million in the first half of 2001 -- more than the company lost during all of last year. Domestic traffic in the region was hurting because of the world economic downturn, rising fuel prices and the devaluation of the local currencies against the dollar.
"But for the second semester, the results are only going to be worse," said Luiz Gustavo Cardoso, who follows the airline industry for the Multistock brokerage house in Sao Paulo. "During the December high season," the start of the Southern Hemisphere's summer vacation period, he said, "travel to places like Disney World is always a key selling point, but this year a lot of people are simply going to stay home" because of their fears of war and terrorism.
Brazil is also worried about the impact on its leading exporter, Embraer, the world's fourth-largest commercial aircraft maker. The company's American depository receipts have fallen 40 percent since the World Trade Center attacks, hurt by concerns that airlines will suspend orders for new planes.
The situation may be even worse elsewhere in the region. In Argentina, for example, the main airline, Aerolineas Argentinas, has been on the verge of collapse for months. Various carriers in Ecuador, Peru, Colombia and Venezuela have also been struggling to stay afloat.
Robert Booth, editor of the Miami-based aviation trade journal AvNews Latin America & Caribbean, estimates that Latin American airlines have been losing $30 million a day since the attacks and are likely to end the current year $1 billion in the red. "Just as the U.S. Congress is talking about an aid package for the U.S. airline industry," he said, "we need a similar package on the order of $3 billion for Latin America, perhaps from the Inter-American Development Bank."
In ordinary circumstances, foreign investment might also offer a way to ease the crisis. But government regulators have looked askance at recent proposals to make the industry more efficient and attractive to investors by merging Avianca and Aces in Colombia and Varig and TAM in Brazil; the dire situation in the United States is certain to dampen the ardor of American airlines to acquire an interest in their Latin American rivals.
"I don't think that any American airline is interested at this moment in expanding outside its own territory," Mr. Ermakoff of the Brazilian airline association said. "The only ones with any capital are other companies outside the aviation business, and this is the worst moment for any kind of talks with them."
Some Latin American airlines have been clinging to the hope that if American carriers eliminate some routes to the region, the local competition will be able to pick up the traffic. But "that seems doubtful," said Mr. Cardoso of Multistock, "because local airlines just don't have that kind of investment capacity."
Amid the gloom, a couple of bright spots stand out. Industry analysts say Lan Chile and TACA Airlines, based in El Salvador, appear equipped to weather the storm.
Lan Chile was the first Latin American carrier to satisfy the Federal Aviation Administration's new security requirements and win permission to resume flights to and from the United States. Analysts who discuss prospects for cross-border consolidation in South American aviation usually mention Lan Chile as a potential buyer; it already operates an affiliate in Peru.
Another bright spot is cargo, especially since the lifting of a temporary ban by the F.A.A. on passenger jets carrying cargo or mail. "The demand for cargo, which contributes dramatically to the profitability of an airline, is going to continue," Mr. Booth said. "Flowers from Colombia, seafood and asparagus from Peru, spare parts and high-tech items moving south from the United States -- that business is not going to stop, and a lot of it moves in the belly of a passenger plane."

GRAPHIC: Photo: TAM jets parked on the runway at the airport in Brasilia. Latin American airlines expect big losses after the attacks in New York. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); NEW ORDERS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); DEVALUATION (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (70%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (61%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (83%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%); GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA (56%); AEROLINEAS ARGENTINAS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: VARIG BRAZILIAN AIRLINES; AEROLINEAS ARGENTINAS; LAN CHILE AIRLINE; TACA AIRLINES 

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (83%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (83%); GOLL3 (BOVESPA) (56%); GOL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (83%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (83%); NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (60%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (60%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (97%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); ECUADOR (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHILE (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%) LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL; ECUADOR; PERU; COLOMBIA; VENEZUELA; CHILE; EL SALVADOR

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



576 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 636 words

PERSON: Christopher R.J. Knable 

HEADLINE: CHANGED LIVES; 
At a Luxury Hotel, Taking Care of the Necessities

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
It is clear that Christopher R. J. Knable is used to getting his way.
 Most of Lower Manhattan was on lockdown last week after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, and the streets were closed to all nonemergency traffic, vehicles or pedestrians. But Mr. Knable, a 34-year-old hotelier, managed to get two generators delivered about 11 p.m. on Thursday to the front door of the Regent Wall Street hotel. 
 Further, the city had evacuated most businesses, but Mr. Knable worked out a deal with the city's Office of Emergency Management to allow the two-year-old hotel, at 55 Wall Street, to provide food and cots for emergency workers and the families of victims.
"We were inspired by all the volunteers and rescue workers rushing toward ground zero," said Mr. Knable, the Regent's general manager. "We are part of the fabric of Wall Street. This building is 159 years old. It was once the U.S. Customs House and the New York Stock Exchange. 
"And at the end of the day, we are in the hospitality business. We are supposed to have a warm smile and a warm touch. This was an oasis among the wreckage for a lot of people."
Mr. Knable, who has worked at the Regent for six months, is used to pampering his guests in 144 rooms that range from $495 for a single or double a night to $2,000 for a "grand deluxe loft suite." He has worked in some of the priciest hotels in the world, including the Peninsula in Manila and the Plaza and the Pierre in New York. 
But last week, he and his staff took care of everyday people working under extraordinary circumstances, people who trudged over plush carpets and marble floors in dirty work boots and clothing covered with dust.
The rooms were closed, but the dozens of rescue workers slept in the 12,000-square-foot ballroom beneath an 80-foot domed ceiling that features what are said to be 16 of the largest Wedgwood panels in the world, depicting the signs of the zodiac and the four points of the compass. Four sets of 35-foot marble Corinthian columns frame the room.
The hotel worked with the city, serving 3,000 meals a day and serving as a drop-off point for food, clothes and other donations, until this Tuesday evening. Since then, the staff has been busy getting the hotel ready to reopen today. Workers have been polishing floors, cleaning up ash and dust and touching up with paint.
Mr. Knable got his start in the hospitality business as a dishwasher when he was a teenager. Both of his parents worked for major corporations, and they moved frequently. He worked at a Greek diner across the street from a Greyhound station in Cleveland, and at K-Bob's, a fast-food chain, in Dallas. He has not shaken those roots. 
"I think back now to washing dishes at the equivalent of a Greek diner in a very dicey part of town in Cleveland, Ohio, and now running five-star hotels is sometimes difficult for me to believe," Mr. Knable said on Wednesday, taking a break.
He has the look of a polished Upper East Sider, and he speaks softly and with a slight twang that he picked up as a boy in Dallas. 
Determined to keep the hotel open after the terror attack on Sept. 11, Mr. Knable had to spar with lawyers and insurers worried about the liabilities, and he raised his voice during a conference call last week. Employees snapped to attention, saying they were surprised to see Mr. Knable's hair standing on end.
"He never does that," said Alvin Torres, one of 10 building engineers. "I was like, 'Yes! Cut through that bureaucracy,' and he did it. He's usually really quiet and gentle. His hair never gets out of place."
Mr. Knable expects to draw business in spite of the tragedy and the economy, saying dozens of rooms are already booked by out-of-town executives hoping to salvage what is left of their companies. He even took a reservation for a couple on their honeymoon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHRISTOPHER R.J. KNABLE (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (52%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HOTELS AND MOTELS; CELEBRITIES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (55%) ;REGENT WALL STREET (NYC HOTEL) 

HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; KNABLE, CHRISTOPHER R J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



577 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1630 words

PERSON: Lewis Rudin 

HEADLINE: Lewis Rudin, Head of Real Estate Family and a Frequent City Fiscal Savior, Dies at 74 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Lewis Rudin, who headed one of New York's oldest real estate dynasties, was one of the city's biggest boosters and became a behind-the-scenes power during the fiscal crises in the 1970's and early 1990's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. 
 He died of complications of bladder cancer, his family said. 
 Mr. Rudin and his brother, Jack, presided over a family empire of 40 buildings valued at $2 billion, including more than 3,500 apartments in 22 buildings in Manhattan. Their holdings also embrace 16 office towers, from the 44-story skyscraper at 345 Park Avenue and 52nd Street to the former AT&T world headquarters at 32 Avenue of the Americas (south of Canal Street). His family almost never let go of a property once it was in their vast portfolio, and rarely ventured outside New York for real estate projects. 
"A fisherman always sticks close to his last catch," Mr. Rudin would say in explaining the family's decision to focus on Manhattan.
But if Mr. Rudin was a simple fisherman, it was in a big pond, and he worked tirelessly to ensure its vitality. He played an instrumental role in popularizing the New York Marathon, rallying corporate executives and labor leaders to help the city during its darkest moments, moving the United States Open to Flushing, Queens, and gaining landing rights in New York for the Concorde jet.
Acting out of what he called enlightened self-interest, Mr. Rudin's role in civic life distinguished him from other moguls who rarely stepped away from their businesses. With New York facing possible bankruptcy in 1975, he persuaded other developers and corporate leaders to prepay $600 million in property taxes, enabling the city and his friend, Mayor Abraham D. Beame, to avoid a fiscal disaster.
"We had to do something," Mr. Rudin explained years later. "We couldn't very well pick up our buildings and move them across the George Washington Bridge."
A tall man, he could be blunt or affable. He was sometimes an easy touch, and always an indefatigable booster for New York City. He countered every perceived slight to the city's reputation with a letter to the editor extolling its virtues.
In response to a 1990 newspaper column about a woman who had fled New York's expensive, crime-ridden streets, Mr. Rudin wrote a letter imploring her to return "to the Big Apple and help us solve not only New York's problems, but all of the social problems of this great country."
Mr. Rudin's easygoing manner embraced a wide range of friends: Mayors Beame and David N. Dinkins; Jack Bigel, the labor adviser; Justice Burton B. Roberts, a former chief administrative judge in the Bronx; Percy Sutton, chairman of Inner City Broadcasting; Alan Alda, the actor; and Muriel Siebert, the first woman to gain a seat on the New York Stock Exchange. His annual party at the Regency Hotel to celebrate the end of Yom Kippur, the Jewish Day of Atonement, drew 250 relatives and friends.
His breadth of contacts enabled him to organize a national coalition that defeated a proposal by President Ronald Reagan to abolish deductions of state and local taxes from federal income taxes, which he and others feared would prompt corporations to flee New York in favor of the South and Southwest.
He and his brother were early supporters of the New York Marathon in the 1970's, playing a key role in moving it out of Central Park and onto the streets of the city's five boroughs as its popularity swelled from 127 runners in 1970 to more than 30,000 today. The two brothers sponsored the Samuel Rudin Trophy in honor of their father, a marathon runner.
Mr. Rudin, whose favorite sports, a friend said, were golf and schmoozing, was the public face of a family empire in which his more reclusive brother Jack oversaw construction and development, while he served as a rental agent filling and managing the buildings and serving on civic and charitable boards.
Mr. Rudin often described how his grandfather Louis Rudinsky came to the Lower East Side in 1883 from Poland with nothing more than the change in his pocket. Mr. Rudinsky became a grocer and in the 1920's bought the family's first piece of real estate, an apartment house on 54th Street, because he had heard that John D. Rockefeller owned property on that block. Years later, Mr. Rudin boasted that the family still owned that property, "although now it's a 32-story office building."
Mr. Rudin is survived by his wife, Rachel; brother, Jack; daughter, Beth Rudin DeWoody; son, William; daughter-in-law, Ophelia; and grandchildren Carlton and Kyle DeWoody and Samantha and Michael Rudin.
Lewis Rudin was born in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx on April 4, 1927. The son of Samuel and May Rudin, he graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, and the New York University School of Commerce after serving as a sergeant in the Army during World War II.
It was Mr. Rudin's father, Samuel, who founded Rudin Management in 1924, when he built his first apartment house, a six-story tenement in the Bronx that still stands. After World War II, Lewis and Jack joined the family firm and the Rudins became known for their modern apartment towers on the Upper East Side, with insulated plumbing, air-conditioning and storefronts.
In 1955, the Rudins built their first office building, at 415 Madison Avenue (48th Street), followed by 1 Battery Park Plaza and 345 Park Avenue, which became the headquarters of Bristol-Myers.
Like other landlords, Mr. Rudin often railed against the city's rent regulations, saying low rents were a brake on new housing construction. The family built its last residential building, 211 East 70th Street, in 1976. But they continued building office towers in the 80's and 90's at a slow, determined pace. Mr. Rudin said he preferred to follow his instincts rather than market studies.
"We don't need marketing studies," he once said. "When the time is right we build."
Mr. Rudin became a major force in the civic arena in 1971, when he formed the Association for a Better New York with Howard J. Rubenstein as well as Preston Robert Tisch, Alan V. Tishman and other Midtown property owners.
Mr. Rudin and the others felt that New York's power brokers had never tried to help the city by lobbying or promoting its attractions. The group held breakfast forums on the issues of the day, treating, at Mr. Rudin's insistence, Democrats and Republicans with equal deference. The group also handed out Polished Apple Awards to the worthy and Rotten Apple Awards to the laggards, like shop owners who failed to pick up debris outside their storefronts.
In 1974, Mayor Beame confided to Mr. Rudin that the city was in dire straits because the federal government had just turned down the city's request for a loan. In the next months, Mr. Rudin rounded up other property owners and executives from Con Edison, New York Telephone and Rockefeller Center, who pledged to pay their real estate taxes early to keep the city afloat.
"Everybody pulled together in '76," Mr. Tisch said. "Other people went on to do other things, but Lew continued with it single-handedly, making it one of the most important organizations in the city."
As the fiscal crisis persisted, Mr. Rudin helped organize informal, private meetings with Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier; Mr. Bigel, the union adviser; and Barry Feinstein, a powerful Teamster official, to discuss problems.
In what seemed to be yet another blow to the city's civic pride in the late 1970's, the United States Tennis Association was close to abandoning Forest Hills and moving the United States Open to another city. Working with Mayor Beame, Mr. Rudin intervened in 1977, persuading the association to move instead to its current home in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park.
Mr. Rudin played a similar role in the early 1990's when the city seemed overwhelmed by the crack epidemic, a sagging economy and a rising crime rate. Although the Rudin company often benefited from his easy access to City Hall and the state's most powerful government officials, he said he never asked for special favors. On more than one occasion, however, he did send one transgressor or another a small pillow with an embroidered message: "No good deed goes unpunished."
"The secret of my relationship with the political world is, I never ask them for anything," he said. "So I owe them nothing. Most of the time, they owe me something."
And in explaining his support for City Meals on Wheels, New York University or North General Hospital in Harlem, he said: "My father loved New York and wanted to reward New York for what it did for our family. It was as simple as that."
The family was caught short during the recession in the early 1990's, which left its 30-story office building at 55 Broad Street empty for several years. Still, the Rudins gambled. After reading an article about a technology company that was considering a move to Manhattan, Mr. Rudin spent up to $40 million transforming the asbestos-ridden building in the financial district into what he called the Information Technology Center. The project, which received generous tax incentives from the city and state, was a success, attracting tenants like Sun Microsystems.
In 1993, Mr. Rudin's son, William, became president of Rudin Management Company and spearheaded the family's latest project, the Reuters tower in Times Square.
Mr. Rudin often mulled over the past and the future for his family at his office at 345 Park Avenue, which was filled with photographs of children, grandchildren, presidents and mayors. He pointed out that the headquarters was built on the site of the grade school attended by his father at the turn of the last century.
"Owning the land here is going to be very good for my children and grandchildren," he once told a reporter. "I would say we got a very good deal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lewis Rudin 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CANCER (56%); BLADDER CANCER (56%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

THOMAS C SUTTON (50%) RUDIN, LEWIS; BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



578 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Rapid developments in terror case and varying standards of taste complicate adjustments of ads.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE scramble by marketers and agencies to adjust advertising that is perceived as inappropriate in the wake of the terrorist attacks last week is proving far more difficult than had been anticipated.
 As advertisers, agencies and media companies that are being bombarded with angry and concerned calls and e-mail messages are discovering, withdrawing or changing commercials and print ads is turning out to be much harder than it was during the most closely comparable past events. Those would include the explosion of the Challenger space shuttle, the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the start of the Persian Gulf war and the Oklahoma City bombing. 
 The complicating factors this time range from varying standards of taste among different parts of the country and the rapid-fire news developments that continue unabated to logistical mix-ups and the inability to adequately gauge public opinion so soon after the attacks.
What happens on Madison Avenue during a national crisis is typically little more than a sidebar to the coverage that really matters. But advertising is being closely watched in this instance because of the potential stimulative effects of the estimated $250 billion in ad spending this year on the consumer economy, which had already been slowing before Sept. 11. 
Advertising "can and will play a crucial role in moving the country forward as we continue our recovery," O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive at the American Association of Advertising Agencies in New York, the industry trade organization, wrote in a letter sent to members.
At the same time, the association "is aware of the gravity of the current situation and the mood of the nation," he added, urging member agencies and their marketer clients "to exercise sensitivity as they begin to resume advertising."
In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Drake explained why he sent the letter, thought to be the first such advisory to members in the organization's 94-year history.
"There's certainly been nothing like this in my experience," Mr. Drake said. "It seems different from everything else."
Yet advertising "is how the economy works," he added, "and how the media can afford to do what they do."
While "ultimately it's the agency acting on behalf of the client to determine the appropriateness of advertising material in print and on the air," Mr. Drake said, "the media need to have a more heightened awareness, too."
That was demonstrated by an outpouring of complaints from readers and advertisers about the Sept. 24 issue of People magazine, which was remade at the last minute to devote its entire editorial content to coverage of the attacks. Like issues of People covering the Oklahoma City bombing or the Challenger explosion, all the regular advertising appears in the issue, which came out last Friday.
But because of what People executives described as the chaotic conditions at their Midtown Manhattan office on the afternoon of Sept. 11, when the decision was made to remake the issue, they did not notify advertisers about the change in contents until after publication. In some instances, ads appear opposite graphic photographs of carnage -- usually a no-no in magazine publishing -- and some of those ads even make jokes about airlines and flying.
"We've had conversations with a good majority of the advertisers, and people have been understanding," said Nora P. McAniff, group president at People in New York, part of the Time Inc. division of AOL Time Warner.
"That doesn't mean they are not upset and angry," she added, "but they understand we can't undo what happened."
"It didn't even dawn on me to call anyone; maybe I was in shock," Ms. McAniff said. "We went on autopilot and did what we typically do."
"This is totally devastating," she added. "We'll do whatever we can to indemnify them."
To start, Ms. McAniff is sending long explanatory letters to the 300 readers who have complained so far, in which she writes, "With the luxury of more time, and a clearer head, I would have made a different decision." A briefer letter from her to all readers is to appear in the Oct. 1 issue of People, which is coming out today. The ad problems at People were reported on Wednesday in The Wall Street Journal.
Other problems are taking place on television, particularly with programs that are syndicated, that is, sold station by station across the country. Those programs are often delivered 10 days or more in advance, with the commercials already included.
That is why, for example, a commercial for Duracell Ultra batteries was still running this week in which a plane and its pilot were seen plunging toward the ground until a boy who is controlling the plane with a joystick as if it were a toy shifts its course. The plane and pilot then climb safely skyward.
"We took immediate action with our agency Tuesday to stop it from airing," said Ann Davin, a spokeswoman for Duracell in Bethel, Conn., a division of the Gillette Company, but some program syndicators "were unable to carry out our instructions to remove it from their programming on such short notice" because "the commercials are integrated into the programming."
Ms. Davin said that Duracell and its agency -- BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group -- were optimistic that the syndicators and stations would now be able to edit out the spot.
Speaking of flying, there has been widespread speculation that the Microsoft Corporation is being forced to change its coming major campaign to introduce the Xbox video game system because the ads had carried a theme like "Fly with us."
Susan Irwin, a spokeswoman for the Microsoft agency, McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising in New York, said, "We're looking at all our spots and there is no big revamp." She said the speculation might have stemmed from reports last week that Microsoft would indefinitely delay the release of a new version of its Flight Simulator computer game and had removed some images of the Manhattan skyline, including the World Trade Center, from the game's Web site.
In another instance of the difficulty advertisers are having in determining what to do, the two principal soft-drink marketers are taking divergent paths for now in peddling their flagship brands.
The Pepsi-Cola Company division of PepsiCo will "continue to suspend national advertising" for the Pepsi-Cola brand, "taking it on a day-to-day basis," said Dave DeCecco, a company spokesman in Purchase, N.Y.
"If you look at Pepsi advertising, it's all about joy," he added, referring to "The joy of Pepsi," the brand's theme, "and right now that's not what the nation is feeling." The Pepsi-Cola agency is also the BBDO New York office.
The Coca-Cola Company, however, plans to resume commercials for its flagship brand, Coca-Cola Classic, by introducing tomorrow a spot featuring the baseball player Cal Ripken Jr. and his daughter, Rachel, at his ballpark, Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore.
"We had planned to break the spot this weekend," said Mart Martin, a Coca-Cola spokesman in Atlanta, and would proceed because "we believe America is ready to welcome an ad about a retiring sports hero who represents perseverance and dedication."
"Cal Ripken plays a game that defines to millions of people what's good about America," he added, "and that's another reason why we think it's appropriate."
But something will be missing from the commercial, created by the McCann-Erickson New York office: the recently introduced theme for Coca-Cola Classic, "Life tastes good," that was to run at the end of the spot.
"Clearly, for the time being," Mr. Martin said, "we don't think it's appropriate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Coca-Cola plans to resume commercials for its flagship brand by introducing a spot tomorrow featuring Cal Ripken Jr. and his daughter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); DESERT STORM (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%) ADVERTISING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: ;ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (72%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



579 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: New Data Show Rapid Decline In Employment Last Month 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Unemployment surged in New York City last month, as job losses hit hard on Wall Street and in some of the other industries that economists say will be most hurt by the destruction of the World Trade Center.
 New data from the New York State Labor Department and the New York City comptroller's office paint a picture of an economy that was rapidly weakening in August, even before the trade center disaster last week. 
 The unemployment rate, which had been falling fairly steadily in the city and edged down in July to 5.0 percent, jumped to 5.8 percent in August, after adjusting for seasonal factors. This is the highest jobless rate since May 2000. 
Meanwhile, companies employed 8,200 fewer people in August, after adjusting for seasonal factors. This is the steepest decline in more than five years, according to Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi's office, which adjusts the state's figures for seasonal factors.
Employment at financial firms fell by 2,300 jobs, 1,600 of them at securities firms; the rest were lost from banks and insurance companies. Analysts expect more layoffs on Wall Street because of the trade center disaster and its calamitous effect on the stock market, where three years of gains have been wiped out. Business services, which include consultants, computer companies and temporary agencies, lost 5,000 jobs. These companies had been adding personnel rapidly in the last couple of years, a trend some economists said was closely tied to growth on Wall Street. 
Tourism-related businesses and entertainment also suffered. Employment in motion pictures and at amusements like tourist attractions dropped by 2,900; transportation and utilities by 400; and restaurants and bars by 200. Those figures are likely to increase this month, as airlines slash their schedules and hotel rooms that were hard to come by a year ago remain vacant. 
"Areas that were strong last year and are not doing as well now are also the ones being impacted by the World Trade Center disaster," said James Brown, an analyst at the State Labor Department. Over the last 12 months, Mr. Brown said, the number of jobs in the city probably grew by only 0.6 percent. Employment growth had been running at about 2 percent for several years, and last year reached almost 3 percent.
Jobs have been growing in a few areas, particularly health care, which added 2,000 workers last month, according to the comptroller's office. Real estate also grew a little, as did social service agencies and stores. 
The trade center collapse has clouded economists' crystal balls even more than usual. And the data they rely on may be in short supply; it is unclear if the state will be able to collect all the employment information it usually gets from businesses in Lower Manhattan. But they do agree the impact will be huge, and, in the short term, bad. Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Economy.com, estimates that $15 billion will be sucked out of the city's $500 billion economy this year because of the trade center collapse. And that's not including $20 billion in property losses.
Of course, the economy will be helped as insurance proceeds and federal aid begin to pour in, and physical reconstruction begins. But for the city's economic future, Mr. Zandi said, "It all comes down to financial services and travel. If they slide away, no matter how much rebuilding there is in Lower Manhattan, it won't be enough." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); AIRLINES (68%); INSURANCE (67%); TOURISM (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%) LABOR; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: ;EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



580 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown Is Seen In U.S. Retail Sales 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Retail sales will rise about half as much as forecast in the fourth quarter as consumers, shaken by last week's terrorist attacks, spend less on clothes and holiday gifts, an industry trade group said. 
 The National Retail Federation now expects a 2.2 percent gain from the year-earlier period, instead of a 4 percent increase. 
The forecast includes sales at general merchandise, apparel, furniture, home accessory, electronics and appliance stores. 
 Consumers, whose confidence in the economy was at its lowest in eight and a half years even before the attacks in New York and Washington, have limited their purchases mainly to food and household goods since last week. Analysts think the economy will shrink in the third and fourth quarters as a result of the attacks, meeting the common definition of recession, according to a Blue Chip Economic Indicators survey conducted Wednesday.
"The question is, how long it will take for us to get back to so-called normal, and nobody knows that," the federation's chief economist, Rosalind Wells, said. 
The federation also said sales for the November-December holiday season were expected to rise 2.5 percent to 3 percent. The group had not issued a holiday forecast until today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (70%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (84%) NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



581 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Change Ahead for Troubled Boston Airport Agency 

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The agency that runs Logan International Airport has long been known as a soft-landing spot for ousted politicians, wayward brothers of the well connected, even a Dublin barmaid met on a governor's trade mission to Ireland. 
 In a city where patronage is practically a civic duty, this was considered business as usual, despite several reports from the Federal Aviation Administration that criticized the agency, Massport, over security violations at Logan. 
 But last week's terror attacks, which involved two planes from Logan, have put state officials on the defensive about the political hirings and embarrassed acting Gov. Jane M. Swift, who herself was given a top position at Massport when she lost a Congressional race in 1996. As a result, Ms. Swift has created a special commission to recommend "structural and cultural changes" at the agency. 
"It is clear that structural and cultural changes must be made at Massport, and my hope is that this commission will provide an initial blueprint for how we meet our long-term goals," she said in a statement on Wednesday, when the commission was formed.
Since the hijacking of two planes that left Logan on Tuesday and crashed into the World Trade Center, what had been an inside-politics story, a spark for occasional tabloid scandal, has become far graver.
"Being the airport where two of these planes started out from puts the people at Logan in the position of having to answer to the victims' families if it was perceived that security lapses were their fault," an F.A.A. official said. "They don't want to have to be in that position again." 
In what critics say was the riskiest patronage move, William F. Weld, then the governor, installed Joseph Lawless, his former driver, as Mass port's chief of security in 1993, allowing Mr. Lawless to assume unprecedented autonomy and responsibility despite the objections of other Mass port executives. Mr. Weld declined requests for comment.
A Massport spokesman, Jose Juves, said Mr. Lawless and Virginia B. Buckingham, a former Weld press secretary who is now the Massport executive director, would not comment because they were busy with security matters related to the attacks.
"There's an ongoing investigation," Mr. Juves said. "The result of that investigation will yield where responsibility should be placed. If part of that is here, people are certainly willing to accept that."
Massport's executive directors over the past decade have included a pharmacist who was also the state secretary of economic affairs and Peter Blute, a one-term Republican congressman.
Mr. Blute noted that Mr. Lawless had replaced a security chief who had once been the driver for former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis's wife, Kitty. What was different, he said, was that Mr. Lawless sought and was allowed greater autonomy, while previous security directors reported to aviation directors with airport training.
Explaining why he had not objected to the security operation changes, Mr. Blute said, "When you work for a governor, you don't make an issue of his people."
The patronage hirings have been such an open concern within the agency that Massport officials have developed the practice of what Stephen P. Tocco, a former state economic affairs secretary, called "backfilling," hiring a second in command with airport training. 
Laura Brown, a spokeswoman for the F.A.A., said Logan had had no more security violations than any other airport. 
But in the past week, Mr. Lawless has acknowledged that more than 100 employee badges have gone missing over the past two years. The F.A.A. is investigating whether at least one hijacker, and possibly more, was allowed into the control tower at Logan for a tour a few days before the attack.
Mr. Lawless also provoked a rebuke from federal officials when he resisted allowing United States marshals to help improve security in the days after the attack.
There is also a public impression that Massport has been distracted by a series of scandals over the last few years. A member of the security detail of Paul Cellucci, the former governor, joked publicly at his farewell party about having given his card to the woman in a Dublin bar, who later showed up and was given a job at Massport (and nicknamed "Where's Me Job?").
Mr. Blute was forced out of his Massport job in 1999 after a photographer captured him and lobbyists touring Boston Harbor on Massport time and money, aboard a boat loaded with alcohol and young women, including one who dropped her bikini top for the camera.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 21 about patronage at Massport, the agency that operates Logan International Airport in Boston, included an erroneous reference from a former Massport executive director to a former airport security chief. The chief was a state trooper who provided security for former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis during his presidential campaign. He was not a driver for Mr. Dukakis's wife, Kitty.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A security officer roamed among waiting passengers this week at Logan International Airport in Boston. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SCANDALS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); MISSING PERSONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; LOGAN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (BOSTON); AIRPORTS 

ORGANIZATION: ;FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: ;LAWLESS, JOSEPH; WELD, WILLIAM F 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); BOSTON (MASS); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



582 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Drop 12% At Supervalu Chain 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Second-quarter earnings at Supervalu Inc. fell 12 percent but beat Wall Street expectations by 3 cents, the company, a leading grocery retailer and food wholesaler, said today. 
 Earnings were $52.1 million for the quarter, which ended Sept. 8, compared with $57.3 million in the same quarter last year. 
Net sales were $4.7 billion, down 12 percent from $5.3 billion a year earlier. 
 Per-share earnings were 39 cents, down from 43 cents a year ago but better than the 36 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call. 
Earlier this year, Supervalu began a major revamping, including store closings, and ended its relationship with the Kmart Corporation after Kmart decided to go with a single grocery supplier and Supervalu decided that the deal with Kmart did not make economic sense. 
"Our above-consensus results reflect improved execution across the company," said Jeff Noddle, chief executive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); GROCERIES WHOLESALERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (88%); WHOLESALERS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: SUPERVALU INC (96%); KMART CORP (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPERVALU INC 

TICKER: SVU (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (96%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (96%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (84%) SIC5411 GROCERY STORES; SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES; 

PERSON: JEFFREY NODDLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



583 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: WINDOWS ON THE WORLD; 
A Showpiece's Survivors Wonder What to Do Now

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
David Emil, the president of the company that ran Windows on the World, the beloved restaurant at the World Trade Center, stood before a sea of faces -- busboys from Ecuador, dishwashers from Ghana, cooks from Bangladesh -- and offered them a smidgen of hope.
 Someday, he said, not next year, but certainly in five years or six, he will open a new Windows on the World. 
 The 350 workers, almost all of them immigrants, applauded wildly. They are grasping for rays of hope after last week's disaster in which the restaurant's whole morning shift -- 79 workers -- disappeared with the towers' collapse and the jobs of the 350 employees not working that morning were wiped out. 
"Our company is uniquely badly affected," said Mr. Emil, whose 107th-floor restaurant, thanks to its fabulous views, was a magnet for tourists, for weddings and for romantic dinners in which engagement rings were given. 
While the law firms and financial companies that were in the twin towers are slowly transferring their operations to hotel suites or to sister offices in other cities, Mr. Emil cannot simply reopen his restaurant elsewhere in Manhattan. Its magic, its view, is not easily recaptured. 
"Our company is out of business right now," Mr. Emil said.
Mr. Emil and the union that represents the restaurant's workers face three unusually daunting challenges at once: comforting and providing financial assistance to the families of the 79 workers who are missing or dead, finding jobs for the 350 survivors and figuring out how to create a new Windows on the World. 
For now, the 350 survivors, drained and depressed, seem at a loss about what to do with their lives. No longer will they spend their days baking salmon, mixing salads, pouring Champagne and waiting on tables. 
"I don't know how I'm going to send money to support my family," said Ramon Hidalgo, a 33-year-old cook from the Dominican Republic whose wife and three young children still live in Santo Domingo.
The restaurant, Mr. Hidalgo explained, was both a ladder of opportunity and a United Nations: workers came from two dozen countries, including Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, Haiti, the Ivory Coast, Pakistan, Poland and Yemen. 
"Everybody was family," Mr. Hidalgo said. "Never do I hear someone say, 'I hate somebody.' "
Joseph Ameyaw, his eyes swollen from tears, is also trying to pick up the pieces. His wife, Sophia Addo, a 36-year-old from Ghana, has been missing since the attack. Like many of the workers, she was striving for higher things -- studying to be a nurse -- while making $345 a week working on the restaurant's housekeeping staff. 
"I cannot sleep," Mr. Ameyaw said. "I cannot eat. I lost a responsible lady." Each month, Ms. Addo sent hundreds of dollars to Ghana to support her parents and her 10-year-old daughter. 
Union officials could not promise much in the way of benefits. There would be $15,000 in life insurance, workers' compensation death benefits and money from the crime victims board to cover burial expenses. The survivors were urged to apply for unemployment insurance and were told their health insurance would run out in two months. "In no way to diminish the suffering of everybody else," Mr. Emil said, "the people in the food service industry were probably least financially prepared to deal with this tragedy."
He is urging contributions to the Windows of Hope Family Relief Fund, c/o David Berdon & Company, 415 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10017.
Mr. Emil and union officials have contacted other restaurants to urge them to hire the survivors. But with the city's hotel and restaurant industry now in a tailspin, many restaurants are laying off rather than hiring. Still, many restaurants are contributing to the new relief fund.
For many survivors, their biggest hope is to see Windows reborn.
"We have to rebuild the World Trade Center and Windows on the World," said Asmat Ali, a cook from Bangladesh. "I'm Muslim, and my personal feeling is we have to show these terrorists they can't keep us down."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Relatives of missing workers from Windows on the World gathered at a union meeting Tuesday. The morning shift of 79 workers is missing, and the jobs of 350 others, from two dozen countries, were wiped out. (Tyler Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); FAMILY (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FAMILY SERVICES (69%); MISSING PERSONS (69%); CHILDREN (64%); HIJACKING (62%); TERRORISM (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: WINDOWS ON THE WORLD (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; EMIL, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GHANA (93%); ECUADOR (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); HAITI (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



584 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: New Housing Construction Dropped Sharply in August 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Housing construction fell in August at the biggest rate in 17 months, the Commerce Department reported today, suggesting that the weakening economy and rising unemployment had cut into Americans' appetite for new-home purchases.
 The report said that builders broke ground on 1.53 million housing units at a seasonally adjusted annual pace last month, a 6.9 percent decline. That followed a 0.4 percent advance in July. 
 Housing activity, aided by low interest rates, has helped sustain the economy. The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon could change that. Builders say they are watching the situation to see how the attacks affect consumer confidence, employment and the demand for homes.
The attacks intensified fears that the economy could slip into recession if consumers and businesses sharply cut spending. Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity and has been a main force keeping the country out of recession.
Economists say people may feel less inclined to buy homes and make big-ticket purchases, given rising unemployment. The nation's jobless rate rose to 4.9 percent in August, the biggest monthly increase in more than six years.
"A slow erosion of jobs likely is taking a toll on housing demand," said Maury Harris, chief economist at UBS Warburg.
Another report, by the Labor Department, showed that the number of Americans filing new claims for state unemployment insurance fell 49,000, to 387,000, in the week ended Sept. 15. The report does not capture the effect of last week's attacks, economists say, because it generally takes time for people to file jobless-claim applications after disasters.
The 6.9 percent drop in housing construction last month was the steepest since March 2000 and left activity at its lowest level in 10 months. Yet even with the decline, economists said that housing construction remained healthy.
"The housing market did not tank in August," said Joel L. Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisers in Holland, Pa. "As for what will happen going forward, that is anybody's guess. But with mortgage rates incredibly low, now is the time to be buying."
The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage declined to 6.80 percent this week from 6.86 percent, according to the mortgage financier Freddie Mac. The rate was the lowest since Feb. 12, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Housing Construction"New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Aug. DataStarts: 1.527Permits: 1.560 Graph tracks starts and permits from March 2000 to August 2001.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%) HOUSING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



585 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: ConAgra Profit Increases 57% 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: OMAHA, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Strengthened by new food brands and more aggressive marketing of its products, ConAgra Foods said today that its profit increased 57 percent in its most recent fiscal quarter. 
 The company said it earned $188 million, or 36 cents a share, compared with $120 million, or 25 cents a share, a year earlier. 
 Sales in the period, which ended Aug. 26 and was the first quarter of ConAgra's fiscal year, rose nearly 8 percent, to $7.6 billion. 
Shares of ConAgra fell 54 cents, to $21.96, on the New York Stock Exchange.
ConAgra, the nation's second-largest food company, behind the Kraft Foods unit of the Philip Morris Company, spent $25 million more on advertising in the latest quarter than in the period last year. The company said it also benefited from its acquisition late in last year's first quarter of International Home Foods, which included brands like Chef Boy Ardee, Pam and Bumble Bee Seafood. 
ConAgra's other brands include Healthy Choice, Orville Redenbacher popcorn, Butterball, Hunt's and Parkay margarine. 
The weakened economy will continue to hurt ConAgra in the short term, however, the chairman, Bruce Rohde, said. The company expects a slight decline in first-half earnings and single-digit gains in earnings per share in the second half, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BRANDING (78%); MISC FOOD MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (97%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); INTERNATIONAL HOME FOODS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONAGRA FOODS INC 

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (97%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (97%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (97%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (97%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (97%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (97%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (56%) SIC2048 OTHER PREPARED FEEDS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (58%) NEBRASKA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



586 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE TROUBLE-SHOOTER; 
Bush's Man on Wall St. Pushed For Reopening

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Stocks have fallen sharply since markets reopened for trading Monday, but for Peter R. Fisher, the Bush administration's link to Wall Street, it is an unsung victory that investors can sell.
 The administration does not want the market to slide, of course. But Mr. Fisher defines crisis as a time when investors are prevented from finding the right prices for stocks and bonds. And last week, for the longest stretch of time since the Great Depression, the world's largest financial markets, even the global safe haven of the Treasury market, were effectively frozen. 
 "Everyday these markets weren't open, you just bottled up more selling pressure," Mr. Fisher, the Treasury under secretary for domestic finance, said in an interview. "You just have to release it -- let it get out."
To help reopen the markets after the devastation in Lower Manhattan's financial district, Mr. Fisher convened a series of sometimes tense meetings in New York and made an endless string of phone calls from here. 
The push met resistance from several big investment firms, especially those that suffered losses of people or displacement of their trading floors and feared being left at a crucial disadvantage when rivals began trading again.
But the markets, stitched together with emergency phone lines and borrowed computer servers to connect temporary trading floors in New Jersey with the main exchanges, have worked almost flawlessly since then, even with record trading.
"It was obviously a major logistical challenge," said Carter McClelland, head of corporate and investment banking at Bank of America, which had to move its trading back office from the World Trade Center to Secaucus, N.J. "But I think the federal government did some extraordinary things to make it happen. The response was tremendous."
For Mr. Fisher, 45, the aftermath of the terrorist attacks has solidified his reputation as the nation's chief financial trouble-shooter, a role he first played when he was the No. 2 official at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In the late 1990's, he helped organize public- and private-sector efforts to prevent the sudden collapse of a giant hedge fund and to minimize the impact of financial collapses in emerging markets.
In that sense he is a sort of regulatory J. P. Morgan, the financier who kept markets functioning amid panics in the early part of the 20th century. Mr. Fisher, like Mr. Morgan, defuses crises by bringing famously competitive Wall Street executives together in one room. Then, to use Mr. Fisher's words, he "helps them reach consensus."
What he calls consensus building a few of his critics privately call badgering. It was his suasion that prompted the biggest names of Wall Street to contribute $3.6 billion to rescue Long-Term Capital Management, the tottering hedge fund, in 1998. Critics said it amounted to a government-inspired bailout for wealthy high-risk investors. Mr. Fisher called it a collective private effort to act in the public interest and head off a possible worldwide financial panic.
Tall and genial, Mr. Fisher seems to wear a perpetual grin, even when he discusses financial meltdowns. He attended Harvard as an undergraduate and got his law degree from Harvard Law School.
A Democrat, Mr. Fisher was not an obvious choice for a top slot at Treasury under President Bush. But most of the president's top advisers have little or no experience on Wall Street, and Mr. Fisher had a reputation as a largely nonpartisan expert with contacts at all the big investment firms and central banks.
When the planes crashed into the World Trade Center last week, the task fell to Mr. Fisher, along with Harvey L. Pitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the leaders of the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq market, to see that markets sprang to life again as quickly as possible.
The meetings with industry leaders began last Wednesday in the boardroom of Bear Stearns and continued the following day at Credit Suisse First Boston.
"I was pushing industry leaders to see how quickly we could bring a semblance of normalcy" back to the markets, he said.
"It matters a great deal that the safe haven is there," he said of the bond market. Of stock trading, he said, "People like to know what they're worth."
The challenges were formidable. Several executives at the meeting had to duck out repeatedly as they sought to track down missing employees or assess damages to their operations. Several told of traumatized employees. Computer systems had been badly damaged, records were missing and phone lines were cut. Lehman and Merrill were searching for new office space.
Though the logistical issues were genuine, Mr. Fisher and some other regulators suspected that a few firms arguing for further delay were doing so for competitive reasons. They did not want trading to start until they were fully confident of their ability to serve their customers and defend proprietary positions in the market. 
Mr. Fisher argued that there was no need to wait for all market players to pronounce themselves ready. The government, he said, should use a different standard -- restoring a "critical mass" of traders who could ensure the market worked smoothly.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, center, the Federal Reserve chairman, conferred with Peter R. Fisher, currently the Treasury's under secretary for domestic finance, during testimony by financial policy officials before Congress. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); MERCHANT BANKING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); HIJACKING (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); NETWORK SERVERS (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) KAHN, JOSEPH; FISHER, PETER R (UNDER SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



587 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE BAILOUT; 
Critics Raise Concerns on Funds Proposed for Troubled Airlines

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Just months ago, the condition of the country's airlines was one of the few things most Republicans and Democrats in Congress could agree on: the industry was reviled by most members of both parties.
 Constituents were angry, and politicians -- who travel extensively as part of their job -- complained of bad service, high prices, and predatory behavior, and there were numerous bills floating around to cure the industry's perceived ills. 
 Now, after last week's terrorist attacks, Congress is poised to bail out the airlines with at least $5 billion in cash and perhaps $10 billion in federally backed loan guarantees. But unlike some past government bailouts, including the one that saved the Chrysler Corporation in the early 1980's, Congress is asking for very little in return. 
While many economists and even some of the industry's biggest critics agree that a bailout is needed, some question whether enough care is being taken to make sure that taxpayer money is not wasted on an industry that has often been mismanaged and has always been extremely volatile.
They are also concerned that the aid might prop up airlines that were headed for bankruptcy even before last week. And other industries, buoyed by the success of the airlines, are now looking to Washington for financial help.
"My phone is ringing off the hook right now by other companies saying, 'Our workers have been shellacked, too,' " Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, said in a phone interview yesterday.
Both the House and the White House produced versions of a bailout bill yesterday that backers hope will pass the House before the weekend. The Senate is likely to move more slowly and some members could try to attach conditions to their version. But individual lawmakers and Congressional aides said yesterday that there was unusual pressure not to hold up a rescue package.
Airline executives have been warning for nearly a week that the industry could face mass bankruptcies as a result of a cash squeeze caused by the government's grounding of all airplanes last week. The industry has already announced that 64,000 workers will be laid off with thousands more still to come.
Even if the bailout is successful, the larger airlines may emerge bigger and stronger than ever with fewer competitors. "With hope, we are going to be roaring back in the next 12 months, and then these issues are going to come back," said Kevin Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, which represents large corporations. "We may even lose some carriers, and then competition issues will be even more serious."
When the government extended $1.5 billion in loan guarantees to save Chrysler, it asked for more than twice that amount in sacrifices from various stakeholders in the company: management, labor, auto dealers and communities where Chrysler had factories.
The government also received warrants for Chrysler stock, which turned into a windfall after the company bounced back. "We made $311 million for the people of America when Chrysler's stock went up," said James J. Blanchard, a former Michigan governor who, as a lawmaker, spearheaded the bailout.
Nothing like that is on the table this week. "The difference between this situation and Chrysler is that Congress is being told in a week the airlines are going down," Senator Wyden said. 
He has been one of the principal backers of a passenger's bill of rights but he said he would not try to extract new commitments from the airlines because the situation was too critical. In hearings yesterday, however, Senator Wyden said he had extracted a commitment on behalf of the industry from Leo F. Mullin, the chairman of Delta Air Lines, to allow a third party to review the airlines' books.
It now appears unlikely that other lawmakers eager to extract conditions aimed at promoting competition and increasing service to out-of-the-way cities will be able to attach more than a few token conditions to the rescue bill. The decline in travel and tourism has simply alarmed too many lawmakers.
"During normal times, we would get support," said a Congressional aide who insisted on anonymity. "But right now if you look at any hotel in any small town, they are hurting. And that's a big part of it."
Before last week's attacks, analysts projected that the industry would probably lose $2.5 billion to $3.4 billion this year because of the economic slowdown, higher fuel costs and a series of expensive new labor pacts. The airlines say that they do not expect the government to make up those losses. 
But executives argue that the airlines are entitled to be compensated for the suspension of air travel in the wake of the attacks and the added security measures they will now need to undertake. They also need the emergency financing to keep them afloat until fear subsides. 
Even with the aid that is being proposed, the industry will still be worse off than it was before Sept. 11, said David Neeleman, the chief executive of JetBlue Airways. "This helping hand that the government is offering," he said, "is not going to be enough to save companies that are weaker." 
Michael E. Levine, who was one of the architects of airline deregulation in the late 1970's and now teaches at Harvard Law School, agrees that now is not the time to try to fix the industry. He worries that if the industry collapses, investors would not pay for its resurrection unless there was a huge consolidation that would kill competition.
"I don't think the emergency room is the right place for reconstructive surgery," he said.
But he objected to the industry's request to have the federal aid distributed to each airline according to its capacity, the formula now contained in both the proposed bills. That, he says, will prop up airlines that had weak sales before last week's attacks. Instead, he said each airline should receive aid based on its own three-month sales projections on Sept. 10, the day before the crisis began.
Even the Cato Institute, the libertarian research group, said that the airlines were entitled to government compensation for the shutdown, said Peter Van Doren, the editor of its Regulation magazine. But any reduction in demand as a result of the attacks is normal business risk and should be born by the shareholders, he added. "Bankruptcy in itself," he said, "isn't a bad thing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kerry Skeen, the chairman and chief executive of Atlantic Coast Airlines, testified before a Senate committee yesterday. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AIRLINES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (58%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



588 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: MOSCOW; 
To Free the Way for the U.S., or Not? Either Way, a Fateful Choice for Russia

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
As American military operations move toward what could be the first deployment of Western troops on former Soviet soil, Russia's policy of giving the Western war on terrorism full moral support -- and so far not much else -- is about to hit a dead end.
 What the Kremlin does next in Central Asia has the potential to alter relations with Europe and the United States, for better or worse, for years to come. The Russians are clearly anguished by their options. 
 Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov hinted at the Kremlin's latest direction on Wednesday in Washington when in one sentence he appeared to abandon Moscow's opposition to the placement of Western military forces in the Central Asian nations of the former Soviet Union, which Russia still regards as its strategic backyard. 
"Each country will decide on its own to what extent and how it will cooperate with the U.S. in these matters," he said.
Not a week earlier, the defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, had said that there was "no basis for even a hypothetical possibility" of Western forces' being stationed in Moscow's former fief.
Either choice is a fateful one for the Russians, who have been trying for a decade to recast themselves in a European mold and are now beginning to learn that such a decision comes at a price.
Russia was the first nation to console the United States after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, and has been unswerving in its verbal support for the elimination of radical Islamic terrorism, seen by Moscow as the chief destablizing force on its southern borders, particularly in the breakaway republic of Chechnya.
But it is the Central Asian nations of Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, which border Afghanistan, that are the first concrete test of Moscow's unity with Washington and the West in any antiterrorism campaign.
The United States wants access to those lands -- and in the case of the more independent Uzbekistan may already have it -- for the sorts of short-notice military missions, from search-and-rescue to special operations, whose success rests on surprise or speed.
Russia still sees matters differently. Whatever its shared antipathy toward terror, it regards an American military presence as a threat to its considerable influence in the region. Nationalists see such a presence as a humiliation that would give the United States a lasting foothold in Russia's hinterland.
Worse still, many officials fear that American strikes launched from former Soviet territory will inevitably draw Russia into a broader conflict whose goals it may share, but for which it is unprepared -- and against which it is unprotected.
Russia is effectively Tajikistan's defender against the Taliban, with a large Russian contingent on the Afghan border. It is bound by a treaty to defend nearby Turkmenistan, also bordering Afghanistan, from outside attack.
Russians still bear the scars of the 1980's war in Afghanistan, which led to a humiliating withdrawal for the Russian Army after it failed to subdue the Afghans. That war was followed by vicious civil conflict in Tajikistan after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. Thousands were killed, and as many as 300,000 people, many of them ethnic Russians, displaced in fighting between Islamic forces and the government.
As one expert noted in an interview today, the Russian Army already is conducting one fruitless war against Islamic extremists in Chechnya. There, the current conflict erupted after the insurgents made incursions into another Russian republic, Dagestan, and -- Russian authorities say -- blew up apartment buildings in Moscow and other cities, killing more than 300 people.
Two fronts may be both beyond the resources of the military and other Russian security forces, and the nation's patience.
"Russia is far more vulnerable to terrorist strikes than the United States because of geographic, political, economic and other reasons," Aleksei Arbatov, a member of the Russian Parliament and a leading expert on the military, said this week.
"If Russia joins the U.S. and becomes a target for terrorists, no matter what forms their activities take, then Russia will have every right to seek a U.S. obligation to ensure its security. Otherwise these relations will not work."
Moscow's fear of being dragged into a wider war is not an idle one. 
Russia keeps 10,000 troops on Tajikistan's border with Afghanistan and 15,000 within the country, largely to cope with drug smuggling and the constant threat of an Islamic insurgency by extremists of the Taliban school.
Beyond that, Russia has a sizable Muslim minority of its own, and a large Muslim population on its southern border, in Kazakhstan, that could be destabilized by any disintegration of Afghanistan.
Others here believe Russia and the United States cannot cooperate in Central Asia regardless of any security guarantees. The chairman of the foreign affairs committee in Parliament's lower house, Dmitri Rogozin, said this week that American use of Russian military bases in the region was impossible "because Americans may turn them into their permanent residence."
That is a popular view among the military and an influential slice of strategists who want to see Russian abandon any Western course and regain its historic role as an independent Eurasian power.
But the cost of staying on the sidelines in this conflict, others argue, could be far greater.
Dmitri Trenin, a top scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Moscow Center, is a leading advocate of closer ties to the West. He argued in an interview today that the antiterrorism campaign offers the Kremlin a blue-moon chance to win Western trust and cement itself into European security arrangements -- all by committing to a war whose goal it supports, and which it most likely cannot avoid in any case.
Western nations do not need Russia's money or its military clout, both of which are in short supply these days. But what Russia could offer -- a strategic location and influence with Afghanistan's neighbors, for starters -- is dearly sought.
Finally, he said, by throwing its lot with the West, Russia would gain at least some say in the United States' conduct of a war it desperately wants to contain. In any event, Russian opposition alone may not be enough to keep the United States military out of Uzbekistan and, perhaps, other Central Asian states as well.
Shireen Hunter, a leading Central Asia scholar at Johns Hopkins University, predicted that the Kremlin would decide to support the Western coalition. "The question is how far they are willing to go to do that," she said.
Russian willingness to allow its Central Asian allies to support the war, she said, will provide one of the first clear indications.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Russian troops guarding the Tajik-Afghan border yesterday. Russia is effectively Tajikistan's defender against the Taliban. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); MISSING PERSONS (60%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: SERGEI IVANOV (68%) WINES, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); TAJIKISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); TURKMENISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



589 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL; 
Studies Are Resumed Across the East River

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
Connie Desarden had just begun letting her daughter, Anjoli, 14, ride the subway alone -- and only for the short trip from their East Village home to Stuyvesant High School. But yesterday, in the wake of the World Trade Center attack that closed Stuyvesant indefinitely, Ms. Desarden insisted on escorting Anjoli across the river to Brooklyn Technical High School, which will house Stuyvesant students for the next few weeks or maybe months.
 "It's scary," said Ms. Desarden, whose daughter was four days into her freshman year at Stuyvesant when the twin towers were attacked and the school's 3,000 students had to flee. "We hardly ever come to Brooklyn. I don't want her to make this trip alone." 
 The Stuyvesant students were among nearly 9,000 children in schools near the World Trade Center who reported to classrooms in more remote and unfamiliar neighborhoods yesterday, sharing space with thousands of students who regularly attend those schools. Nervous parents accompanied them in droves, still shaken by their children's brush with disaster last week and worried about the instruction they would receive in such tight and makeshift quarters.
Classes from Public School 234 in TriBeCa are doubling up and even tripling at P.S. 41 in Greenwich Village because there are not enough classrooms to go around. Students from P.S. 89 in Battery Park City and P.S. 150 in TriBeCa will be taught in the library and music and art rooms at P.S. 3, also in Greenwich Village. They will eat lunch at their desks because the cafeterias are not big enough to accommodate two student bodies.
"The students are learning how to make the best of a bad situation and how to share," said Anna Switzer, the principal of P.S. 234. "It's not that we can't do well here; it's just that we want our old school back."
The Stuyvesant students were at Brooklyn Tech, in Fort Greene, for less than two hours yesterday, getting schedules and pep talks from school administrators in the auditorium. Several remarked that the assembly had had an unusually patriotic tone.
"We pledged allegiance to the flag," said Margaret Conway, a junior from Sunset Park, Brooklyn. "That was weird."
The relocation plans were hastily conceived, and they were still in flux even as the students showed up for class yesterday. Originally, Brooklyn Tech's 4,700 students were to attend school from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. and Stuyvesant students were to come from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. But Stuyvesant parents complained that it would be dangerous and educationally unsound to have nearly 8,000 students in the building at once.
So at the last minute on Wednesday, Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy ordered the two schools to operate on completely separate shifts. Brooklyn Tech students will leave the building before the Stuyvesant students arrive at 1:30 p.m. Classes for Stuyvesant students will be shortened to 29 minutes from 40. Classes for Tech students, which also used to be 40 minutes, will be compressed to 37.
Although some parents were agonizing yesterday about the shortened schedule -- both schools, after all, are considered top-notch and have disproportionate numbers of students bent on attending top-level colleges -- the Stuyvesant students had more immediate concerns. JoJo Du, a senior, had heard a rumor that Brooklyn Tech students were threatening to beat up Stuyvesant students. Thomas Pastuszak, a senior from Briarwood, Queens, was lamenting that he would not get home until 7 or 8 p.m. And Stella Brinkevich, a sophomore, was comparing Brooklyn Tech, a fortresslike structure from the 1920's, unfavorably to Stuyvesant, which opened a new, state-of-the-art building in 1992.
"It's a pretty bad-looking school compared to Stuy, but what can you do?" Ms. Brinkevich said as security guards herded students inside. "We're pretty thankful that they're taking us in."
Despite their many qualms, the Stuyvesant students were ebullient about seeing each other for the first time since the attack, said Jeff Orlowski, a senior. That feeling was echoed among other displaced students around the city, who had been isolated from their classmates and teachers for more than a week after being evacuated from their schools in the terrifying hours after the attack.
"I don't feel as sad today as I did yesterday," Brandon Diaz, a second grader from P.S. 89, said as he arrived at P.S. 3. "I get to play and forget about what has happened."
After dismissal at Brooklyn Tech, Ms. Conway and her friends mingled with some Tech students across the street from the school, each group testing their preconceived notions about the other and nervously attempting to bond.
"Stuy kids look down on us and we don't appreciate it," ventured Orlando Vasquez, a senior at Tech.
Ms. Conway offered an olive branch of sorts. "The coalitions between our schools really aren't that strong," she admitted. "But I really want to get to know you guys."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Learning at a New Address"Students from schools that remain closed near the World Trade Center are being absorbed into other schools around the city. STUDENTS FROM: Stuyvesant High SchoolNO. OF STUDENTS: 3,041ABSORBED INTO: Brooklyn Technical High SchoolNO. OF STUDENTS: 4,039 STUDENTS FROM: P.S. 234NO. OF STUDENTS: 613ABSORBED INTO: P.S. 41NO. OF STUDENTS: 717 STUDENTS FROM: P.S. 150; P.S. 89NO. OF STUDENTS: 175; 239ABSORBED INTO: P.S. 3NO. OF STUDENTS: 502 STUDENTS FROM: I.S. 89NO. OF STUDENTS: 255ABSORBED INTO: I.S. 70NO. OF STUDENTS: 111 STUDENTS FROM: High School of Leadership and Public ServiceNO. OF STUDENTS: 586ABSORBED INTO: High School of Fashion IndustriesNO. OF STUDENTS: 1,694 STUDENTS FROM: High School of Economics and FinanceNO. OF STUDENTS: 720ABSORBED INTO: Norman Thomas High SchoolNO. OF STUDENTS: 1,989 (Source: New York City Board of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORISM (72%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); MISSING PERSONS (68%); AIRLINES (61%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



590 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: TURF BATTLES; 
Conflicting Visions of How to Rebuild Lower Manhattan

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON and CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
It could turn into one of the largest construction projects in New York City history. But even before the last of the fires at the World Trade Center complex is extinguished, city, state and federal officials are jockeying over who should control the rebirth of Lower Manhattan.
 At a meeting on Monday with 30 of the city's largest developers and brokers, Deputy Mayor Robert M. Harding said that "until the mayor says there is a plan, there is no plan," according to one of the developers who was there and confirmed by another. 
 City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone has fired his own volley. He is convinced that the city must avoid another state commission, like the Battery Park City Authority or the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, that dictates what is built, who builds it and where it is built. He wants these critical decisions to be made primarily by a new mayoral commission -- with no state appointees. 
"We are the ones that have to rebuild, restructure and re-energize," Mr. Vallone said as he prepared to introduce a City Council bill creating the commission. "You start from the bottom up, and we are at the bottom of this situation, in a very figurative and literal way."
The city's powerful real estate developers, meanwhile, are promoting their own plans for downtown. They are demanding tax breaks to subsidize the construction of new office towers and incentives to lure tenants back to a section of the city devastated by the Sept. 11 attack.
And that is not all. Mr. Vallone, a Democrat, is only one of six men vying to take over City Hall. Each candidate, to one degree or another, has already offered his own vision. 
So far, as efforts continue to find possible survivors and the city starts to remove an estimated hundreds of thousands of tons of debris, the city, state and federal governments continue to work together with an air of collegiality, at least in public.
But with as much as $20 billion in federal aid headed toward New York City, as well as billions more from insurance payments and state and city investments, the time has come to figure out just who or what will supervise and coordinate the redevelopment. Behind the scenes, the scuffling has begun. The winner will determine, in large part, what Lower Manhattan looks like for decades to come.
Perhaps the starkest split so far is between two men who in the last week and a half have seemed inseparable: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mr. Vallone.
Since the attack, Mr. Vallone has repeatedly stood behind the mayor as he gave daily news updates on the search for survivors and those killed. But earlier this week, the Giuliani administration told the speaker to remove the mayor's name from the legislation he intends to introduce today.
The bill the speaker's staff has drafted calls for a seven-member commission, appointed presumably by Mr. Giuliani, that would "exercise all powers necessary and appropriate to reconstruct and redevelop the Lower Manhattan/Financial District." 
But Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota said yesterday that Mr. Vallone's plan was unacceptable. The state must be involved in any new entity, he said.
"If any authority is created, it needs to be done in conjunction with the State of the New York," Mr. Lhota said. "It is that simple."
Such an alliance is necessary, he said, given the inherently complicated nature of the task ahead. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey owned the World Trade Center. The federal aid for the city will, at least in part, be funneled through the state. The state has much broader powers to take property by eminent domain and is not bound by the city's zoning and environmental laws.
A commission would have to decide whether the city should just build a memorial and new office towers or something more comprehensive, like apartment buildings, shopping areas, or perhaps direct rail links between Wall Street and the Long Island Rail Road.
Mr. Lhota agreed with Mr. Vallone's aversion to astate commission in part, saying that the city must be assured that it will get an equal share of the power, unlike its role in the Port Authority.
"We are looking for a partnership effort here," he said, implying that it should be half city appointees and half state. "A true partnership."
Mr. Vallone said he was open to modifying his bill.
Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, said that a commission with powers split equally between the city and state would probably end up deadlocked.
"What gets done with a 50-50 commission?" he asked. "When it comes to rebuilding, it's primarily the Port Authority and the state, working with the City of New York," Mr. Gargano said. "The city has to be part of it."
Prominent city developers would like to start to move on several major projects before a comprehensive review of the options is complete.
Within days of the trade center attack, the Speyer, Resnick, Durst and Rudin real estate families met privately with city planning chairman, Joseph B. Rose, to discuss building office towers on sites they own or control to create new homes for businesses that were in Lower Manhattan. The Resnicks, who were designated this year to develop an apartment house on a city-owned site near the trade center, are now talking to officials about building a large office tower.
Stephen M. Ross and Douglas Durst, two developers active in Manhattan, also argued for the need to create a "super agency," spearheaded by the state but including city officials, that would not get bogged down in public reviews or be constrained by city zoning or environmental rules. 
Questions over how to divide up such projects are nothing new. Even now, the city and the state have set up separate assistance centers for businesses whose offices were destroyed. 
And with the federal government slated to pick up a share of the tab of this rebuilding effort, there will be one more powerful party with whom to resolve differences.
The federal money comes with strings, thanks to last-minute objections raised by several Republican senators, including Don Nickles of Oklahoma, who said he feared that the aid could become a "slush fund." Arguing that past disaster-relief efforts across the country have been marred by fraud, Senator Nickles succeeded in requiring New York to get full Congressional approval before drawing down its $20 billion. Thus New York's redevelopment could be subject to committee hearings and floor debates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Damage assessment continued yesterday, this time from inside, as workers entered buildings around the demolished World Trade Center towers. (Kathy Willens/Associated Press)(pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); HIJACKING (69%); TERRORISM (64%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) LIPTON, ERIC; BAGLI, CHARLES V; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); LHOTA, JOSEPH J (DEPUTY MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



591 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Stock Prices Resume Slide, Reaching Levels of 1998
After seeming to stabilize earlier in the week, stocks plunged as investors grew fearful that the economy is falling into a recession and anxious about what might unfold as the United States struggles to combat terrorism.
 The main market gauges are now only a few points above the lows they reached in the fall of 1998. So far this week, the Dow Jones industrials have dropped 1,220 points, or 12.8 percent. The Nasdaq is down 13.3 percent, and the S.& P. 500 has fallen 9.9 percent. Page C7. 

Settlement Seen in NextWave Case
Federal officials and the wireless telephone industry are close to a $17 billion settlement of the lawsuits between the government and NextWave Telecom over the ownership of more than 200 valuable licenses, people involved in the negotiations said. C2.

Nation's Financial Trouble-Shooter
Even though stocks have fallen sharply since markets reopened Monday, for Peter R. Fisher, the Bush administration's link to Wall Street, who helped get the markets up and running again, it is an unsung victory that investors can sell. The aftermath of the terrorist attacks has solidified Mr. Fisher's reputation as the nation's chief financial trouble-shooter, a role he seemed to invent for himself when he served as the No. 2 official at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In the late 1990's, he helped organize public- and private-sector efforts to prevent the sudden collapse of a giant hedge fund and to minimize the impact of financial collapses in emerging markets. C6.

Some Complain About Insurers
Since the World Trade Center attacks, some small-business owners and homeowners say they are getting confusing responses and scant assistance from their insurers. C8.

An insurance consulting firm put the likely cost to insurance and reinsurance companies at a staggering $72 billion. C8.

Changing Ads Poses Difficulties
The scramble by marketers and agencies to adjust advertising that is perceived as inappropriate in the wake of the attacks is proving far more difficult than had been anticipated. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C4.

PG&E Proposes Splitting Into Two
In a court filing, PG&E proposed splitting into two utility companies, a move it said would enable it to repay billions of dollars to creditors without assistance from California. C4.

Housing Starts Fell in August
Housing construction fell 6.9 percent in August, the Commerce Department reported, suggesting the weakening economy and rising unemployment had cut into Americans' appetite for new-home purchases. A separate report from the Labor Department showed that the number of Americans filing new claims for state unemployment insurance fell 49,000, to 387,000, in the week ended Sept. 15. The report does not capture the effect of last week's attacks, economists say, because it generally takes time for people to file jobless-claim applications after disasters. C2.

U.S. Proposes Microsoft Timetable
The government proposed a schedule for the remaining proceedings in the Microsoft antitrust case that by taking years to conclude could have limited effect on the company's new operating system. C9.

Duke to Buy Canadian Company
Duke Energy, a power generation and trading company, said that it planned to buy Westcoast Energy of Canada, a natural gas pipeline and distribution company, for $3.5 billion in cash and stock. The acquisition continues a push by American energy companies to collect natural gas assets in Canada. C4.

Merrill Names a Brokerage Chief
Merrill Lynch said that it had named James P. Gorman, a former consultant at McKinsey & Company who moved to the firm in 1999, as head of its brokerage unit. He succeeds E. Stanley O'Neal, who was named president and chief operating officer in July. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks Housing Starts from March to August. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,376.21 down 382.92Nasdaq composite -- 1,470.93 down 56.8710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.74% up 0.04The euro -- $0.9263 down 0.0043The dollar -- 116.07 yen down 1.41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REINSURANCE (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); LITIGATION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (63%); HOUSING STARTS (63%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



592 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MARKETS; 
Deepening Gloom Pushes S.&P. Index Below 1,000 Mark

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Gloom fell over America's stock markets yesterday, as investors grew fearful that the economy was falling into a deeper recession in the wake of last Tuesday's attack and might not recover until next spring at the earliest. 
 After seeming to stabilize on Tuesday and Wednesday, stocks plunged yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 382.92 points, or 4.4 percent of its value, and other major market gauges dropped more than 3 percent. 
 Investor worries worsened after Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, said that Washington should avoid precipitous moves to lift the economy with additional spending or interest rate cuts until the economic impact of last week's attacks becomes clearer. 
Major indexes are now only a few points above the lows they reached during the fall of 1998, when Wall Street last worried that a worldwide recession might have begun. 
With yesterday's decline, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which includes the biggest American companies, closed below 1,000 for the first time since Oct. 13, 1998.
As the American travel industry reels and consumer confidence plunges, even the most optimistic analysts now say the economy will not recover until next spring at the earliest. A poll of top economists released yesterday showed that 82 percent now thought that the economy was in recession, up from 13 percent earlier this month.
Many analysts and investors are not optimistic that the markets or economy will recover quickly. "The economy's bad, and the way we live has changed," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen, a securities firm. "You have to price in a new reality."
In contrast to Wednesday, when a late rally provided investors with some reason for hope, stocks ended trading yesterday near their lows for the day. The S.& P. 500 lost 31.56 points, or 3.11 percent, to finish at 984.54, and the Nasdaq gave up 56.87 points, or 3.72 percent, at 1,470.93.
So far this week, the Nasdaq is down 13.3 percent, while the S.& P. 500 has fallen 9.9 percent. The Dow Jones average has dropped 1,220 points, or 12.8 percent. The overall value of stocks has dropped more than $1 trillion since Monday.
Stocks slid across the board, with media companies, airlines and aircraft makers, and high-technology companies the biggest losers. Of the Dow's 30 components, only 3 rose.
Disney dropped $1.52, to $16.98, or more than 8 percent, after the Bass family of Texas was said to have sold 135 million Disney shares to meet a margin call. Microsoft fell $3.11, or 5.8 percent, to $50.76, and General Electric, the world's most valuable company, skidded $2.13, or 6.6 percent, to $30.37.
Communications and pharmaceutical companies held up slightly better, as investors bet that any recession would affect them less severely.
Mr. Pradilla said he expected that stocks would drop another 5 percent in the next two weeks before bottoming, with the Dow average settling around 8,000. But whether the markets can recover after that depends "on what happens politically and militarily," he said. "I'm assuming that we do not become a perpetually beleaguered nation."
Stephen Slifer, chief economist at Lehman Brothers, said he expected the economy would shrink 1 percent in the current quarter and as much as 2 percent in the fourth quarter. "There's a major fear factor -- consumer confidence is going to get whacked -- and the stock market reflects that," Mr. Slifer said.
The longer-term outlook is hazy. If the United States can capture Osama bin Laden and other terrorists and does not face more attacks like last week's, consumer confidence may begin to recover by the spring, he predicted. With the aid of lower interest rates and increased government spending, the economy could begin to grow quickly as soon as the second quarter of next year.
But if American confidence is eaten away by further attacks, or if a widening of the conflict to Iraq or other Middle Eastern nations sends oil prices soaring, the United States could enter its deepest recession since 1974, Mr. Slifer said. "That was a deep dark ugly recession," he said. "From top to bottom it dropped about 3.5 percent."
Next year, "we could have anything from a 2 percent decline to 2 percent growth, but you're out of the world of economics," said Mr. Slifer, who is working out of his apartment because Lehman's headquarters was destroyed in the attack. "I don't know how these guys are going to respond -- on either side."
Mr. Greenspan and Mr. O'Neill warned that Congress should not be in such a hurry to give the economy a short-term lift with new federal spending.
In testimony to the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan urged lawmakers to take time to assess how long-lasting the effects of the attacks would be on the economy before deciding on further tax cuts and government spending. Mr. O'Neill, testifying alongside Mr. Greenspan, suggested that the administration intended to resist pressure to provide direct financial aid to industries other than the airlines.
Still, some investors said they were looking for bargains amid the market's slide. Many top companies are selling for less than they are worth, considering that the disruption will probably be short term, said Hank Herrmann, president and chief investment officer of Waddell & Reed Financial, a mutual fund company based in Overland Park, Kan.
"Stocks are very cheap," Mr. Herrmann said. "At some point, we will get closer to normal. And we will go back to work."
Mr. Herrmann said he was especially interested in technology companies like Motorola and Hewlett-Packard, which are down more than 75 percent from their highs last year. Mr. Herrmann said Waddell's investors seemed confident. The company had only $6 million in net sales of its stock funds on Wednesday, out of about $25 billion in assets in stock funds, he said.
"Think in terms of two or three years and think of this as a buying opportunity," he said.
Steve Colton, managing director of the $400 million Phoenix Oakhurst Growth and Income fund, echoed that optimism.
"I don't think the world is going to fall apart," Mr. Colton said. "It's a very, very tragic event -- the worst loss of life in this country since the Civil War. But I do believe that things will improve."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Approaching 1998 Lows"Major market gauges, continuing their fall yesterday, are approaching levels last seen in the fall of 1998. Graphs track the Dow Industrials and Nasdaq Composite from 1997 through yesterday's close.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); AIRLINES (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT BASS (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); SID BASS (58%); LEE BASS (50%) BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



593 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE SUSPECT; 
Mysterious Life Of a Suspect From France

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: NARBONNE, France, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
It has been almost a week since Zacarias Moussaoui's mother, a Moroccan-born retired employee of France's telephone company, first saw her son's face on the evening news. 
 She had not heard from him for more than a year. In the past there had been other long stretches of silence, when, in his growing Islamic fervor, Mr. Moussaoui wanted nothing to do with a mother who refused to wear the veil or say daily prayers. 
 But as she watched the news at home in this southern French town, she saw things she could hardly believe. Mr. Moussaoui had been caught in America using false papers. He had been trying to learn how to fly and investigators were wondering now whether he might be connected to the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.
Some investigators wonder whether he might be the missing 20th hijacker. Three planes were taken over by five men, and one by just four. Investigators also wonder whether Mr. Moussaoui was part of the plot but prevented from playing his role when he was detained by immigration on Aug. 17.
The idea of it, his mother says, is too horrible to contemplate. Could this be her son, a solid student, with several technical degrees? 
"How could he be involved in such a thing?" she said. "I cannot eat. I cannot sleep. I keep saying to myself, could this be? All my children, they each had their own rooms. They had pocket money. They went on vacations. I could understand if he had grown up unhappy or poor. But they had everything." 
Mr. Moussaoui, 33, has become the focus of intense interest. The French secret service now has a whole team working on him, retracing his life and contacts in France. How much time he spent here in the last decade is unclear. Even before his arrest in the United States, a French antiterrorist task force already had an open police file on Mr. Moussaoui. The police say he had traveled to Afghanistan and Pakistan several times, and may also have been to Kosovo and Chechnyna.
Though he moved to London in the early 1990's, he was back in France enough to catch the eye of the police in the mid-90's because he was sounding fanatic, exhorting other French Muslim friends to "come and work for jihad," a French official said. France put Mr. Moussaoui under surveillance, but they never formally charged him.
His mother said she was totally unaware of his travels. She believed he lived in London. But he was vague and evasive when she asked for specifics. 
Last Saturday, the police raided an apartment at 23 Lambert Road in Brixton, a working-class neighborhood in London, the address Mr. Moussaoui gave when he renewed his passport at the French Embassy in London last September. 
But they may have been late by some nine months. A young woman who answered the door to the apartment there said she had been living there for the past nine months. 
Mr. Moussaoui's troubles in the United States began when he was arrested in Minnesota on a passport violation. He had aroused suspicions at the Pan Am International Flight Academy where he wanted to get training on a flight simulator for large jetliners. Local officials were making plans to send him back to France when the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were hit.
Almost immediately local officials made the connection. Investigators said that Mr. Moussaoui had already trained at the Airman Flight School in Norman, Okla., though he left without finishing his course of study.
The e-mails he sent -- obtained as part of a joint project between The New York Times and the PBS program Frontline -- trying to enroll in the Airman School started in October last year and have a friendly, cheery quality, though the English is sometimes choppy. "Finally I am coming to fly hopefully with you," one says. "Hello, Ms. Brenda, sorry it is me again today."
Mr. Moussaoui has refused to cooperate with authorities. 
The F.B.I. is also investigating a former University of Oklahoma student, Hussein al-Attas, who may have driven Mr. Moussaoui to Minnesota this summer. The Associated Press has reported that Mr. al-Attas also may have let Mr. Moussaoui live with him at one point. Mr. al-Attas also has been transferred to New York for questioning. 
Mr. Moussaoui was born in the Atlantic coast town of St.-Jean-de-Luz, the youngest of four children. His mother was 14 when she married a man in Morocco she said she did not love. A year and a half later he wanted to move to France and she agreed reluctantly. But the marriage went bad quickly. By 24, she was divorced and had moved to the other side of the country near the Swiss border town of Mulhouse. There, for a time, she made her living by sewing. Then a friend offered her a job as a cleaning woman for the telephone company. After taking night classes she passed a civil service test and was promoted. 
When Mr. Moussaoui was an adolescent the family moved to Narbonne where his mother bought a villa in the hills outside the city. "I wanted them to be away from the city and the drugs and all the trouble there," she said. "I just asked that they get a profession." 
Mr. Moussaoui's high school records note that he was a "likeable boy, tenacious, a slow worker but full of good will." He eventually earned various technical degrees.
But then, his mother said, a cousin came to visit. In the Moussaoui household, all the children were required to make their beds, vacuum and help with the dishes. But the cousin told Mr. Moussaoui and his older brother that they were not supposed to do such work. "She told them that they were not acting like men," his mother recalled. "She told them that Muslim men should have four wives. She started criticizing me because I did not wear a veil. The boys liked what they heard."
In 1990, she says, Mr. Moussaoui left for London. When Mr. Moussaoui returned home in 1997, he had pictures of himself in a cap and gown. He told his mother he had an economics degree, though she does not know from what institution. Mr. Moussaoui's activities in Britain remain a mystery. The French Embassy in London believes he first arrived in the early 1990's but a search of phone and utility records turned up no trace of him. On his passport renewal application last September, he said simply that he was unemployed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); RELIGION (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); MISSING PERSONS (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); AIRLINES (68%); IMMIGRATION (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); ARRESTS (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE; MOUSSAOUI, ZACARIAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); KOSOVO (52%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



594 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: The Case for War, and the Case for Restraint; 
An Airline Proposal

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 By committing billions of dollars to sustaining the commercial airline industry (front page, Sept. 19), the United States government is recognizing commuter air travel to be vital to the national economy, as well it should. 
 However, with so much of the infrastructure (airports, air traffic control and so on) already paid for in large part by public money, and with new appreciation for the low profit margins and unstable financial foundations of most carriers, why not consider an obvious alternative: nationalizing the airline industry? 
A national airline system could synthesize and streamline the response to economic and security concerns, and finally acknowledge that the public interest is as linked with air travel as with the Interstate highway network.

WARWICK SABIN
Washington, Sept. 19, 2001


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (88%); CIVIL AVIATION (88%); AIRPORTS (88%); HIJACKING (88%); NATIONALIZATION (88%); TERRORISM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; NATIONALIZATION OF INDUSTRY; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

PERSON: SABIN, WARWICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



595 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Israel Postpones Meeting After Woman Is Killed
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, under intense pressure from the Bush administration, decided to delay but not cancel a planned meeting between the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres after the killing of an Israeli woman shook the fragile cease-fire. A10

Attack on Iraqi Air Defenses
American and British warplanes attacked Iraqi air defense forces in southern Iraq for the second time in three days, the latest intensification of a tit-for-tat skirmishing that has dragged on for nearly three years, Pentagon officials said. A4

Pope to Visit Kazakhstan
Pope John Paul II asserted that he would leave tomorrow for a trip to Kazakhstan, where a poster announced his visit to Astana. Officials are planning unprecedented security measures during his four-day visit. The region is on edge waiting for American retaliation for last week's terror attacks, though ethnic and religious tensions in Kazakhstan itself remain relatively low. A10

Poland Ex-Communists Favored
A sour mood of frustration and anxiety appears likely to propel Poland's ex-Communists to a sweeping victory in national elections tomorrow. After years of exceptional economic growth, both unemployment and the government's deficit have grown this year. A3

Militants Rattle Southeast Asia
After last week's terror attacks in the United States, fears have heightened throughout Southeast Asia that militant Islamic groups there may be cooperating and receiving increased support from militants in the Middle East. A7

Parents Fear for 2 Aid Workers
In Islamabad, the Pakistan capital, the parents of two Americans on trial in Afghanistan for preaching Christianity to Muslims are waiting anxiously for their daughters after being forced to leave Afghanistan. A10

World Briefing A12

NATIONAL A14-16

Airport Agency Patronage Comes Under Scrutiny
The terror attacks on New York and Washington, which involved two hijacked planes that took off from Logan International Airport in Boston, have put Massachusetts officials on the defensive about political hiring at the agency that runs the airport. Acting Gov. Jane M. Swift, who herself was given a top position at the agency, Massport, after she lost a Congressional race in 1996, has created a commission to recommend "structural and cultural changes" there. A14

Use of Profiling May Widen
Legal experts said racial profiling by law enforcement agencies might now be authorized by judges more definitively than ever because of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. A16

Move to Reregulate Energy
The California Public Utilities Commission voted, 3 to 2, to revoke a consumer's right to choose a power provider, tossing out the centerpiece of the state's failed effort to deregulate its electricity industry. The move makes it easier for the state to use revenue from retail power sales to finance a $12.5 billion bond issue. A16

SPORTS C16-20

Somber Air for Football
Network executives and announcers said that when college and pro football return to television this weekend, the presentations would be tailored to reflect the subdued and patriotic mood of the country. Producers are discussing an approach to language that will try to avoid war metaphors and to production that will mute percussive graphics. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Pesticide Labeling Case
The E.P.A. accused Micro Flo, a pesticide manufacturer based in Memphis, of illegally marketing millions of pounds of insecticides containing falsely labeled imported ingredients. The agency is seeking $3.7 million in penalties for violations of federal pesticide laws. A14

NEW YORK/REGION A20-28

Talk of Vote Delay Looms Over Mayoral Candidates
The campaign for mayor commenced again amid concern about whether the Board of Election could effectively administer the vote on Tuesday. Aides said that Governor Pataki asked Democratic mayoral candidates whether he should postpone the election again. A20

Night Life Slowly Returns
Night life in New York City gingerly began regaining its footing as entertainment spots reopened and New Yorkers sometimes trickled and at times even flocked back to allow themselves some fun. On Thursday night, Carolines on Broadway staged its first comedy shows since the attacks, and tonight, the Mets are scheduled to play their first home game at Shea Stadium. A20

WEEKEND E1-26; E27-36

Dark Days for Broadway
This was one of the worst weeks in Broadway history. Five shows are closing this weekend because of the terrorist attacks, and a half-dozen others, all long-running shows with large casts, are wobbling dangerously near the edge. Nearly 100 actors suddenly lost jobs, as did dozens of crew members and backstage workers. Layoffs were being whispered about in other sectors, too. E1

Art Shows Canceled
The third annual International Art and Design Fair, 1900-2001, scheduled to open at the the Seventh Regiment Armory in Manhattan on Sept. 29, was canceled this week. The fates of dozens of other fairs are now in question, too, including the International Fine Art and Antique Dealers Show and others like it, which have been part of the New York social calendar for decades. E27

OBITUARIES C14-15

Lewis Rudin
The head of one of New York's oldest real estate dynasties and a behind-the-scenes power during the fiscal crises in the 1970's and early 1990's, he was 74. C14

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Greenspan Urges Prudence
Saying it is "far more important to be right than quick," Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, urged Congress to wait a week or two before deciding whether to bolster the economy through tax cuts and government spending. C1

Pall Over Markets
Gloom fell over America's stock markets as investors grew fearful that the economy was falling into a deeper recession. After seeming to stabilize on Tuesday and Wednesday, stocks plunged. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 382.92 points, or 4.4 percent, and other major market gauges dropped more than 3 percent. Major indexes are now only a few points above the lows they reached during the fall of 1998, when Wall Street last worried that a worldwide recession might have begun. C7

Measure of Distress
The stock market has fallen so far that some members of the Bass family of Texas have been forced to sell a big stake in Disney to raise cash. C1

Financial Community Dispersed
The destruction of the World Trade Center will leave the financial-services industry more scattered than ever and with far fewer employees in Manhattan. The corporate headquarters of displaced financial giants like American Express and Merrill Lynch are unlikely to relocate, but entire units of those companies may never return. C1

Airline Bailout Questioned
Congress is poised to bail out the airlines with cash and federally backed loan guarantees. While even some of the industry's biggest critics agree that a bailout is needed, some question whether enough care is being taken to make sure that taxpayer money is not wasted. C7

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A34-35

Editorials: Mr. Bush's Most Important Speech; New York <heart> America; Steven R. Weisman on Pakistan.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman

Crossword E36
Weather D8
TV Listings E25

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); DEREGULATION (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (86%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BONDS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); HIJACKING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); AIRPORT OPERATION (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); RACIAL PROFILING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PARENTING (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (63%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (62%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (62%); RACE & RACISM (60%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); POLAND (91%); PAKISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



596 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: Palm Loss Is Narrower Than Expected 

BYLINE:  By Chris Gaither (NYT) (Compiled by Alan Krauss) 

 BODY:
 Palm Inc., the hand-held computer maker, reported a fiscal first-quarter loss of $38.7 million, or 7 cents a share, bettering analysts' per-share forecast by 2 cents. Revenue was $214.3 million, down by half from a year earlier. 
Palm, based in Santa Clara, Calif., predicted flat or slightly improved sales for the current quarter and said it did not expect to turn a profit despite the typically strong holiday season. Separately, Palm began shipping its newest product, the m125, a hand-held with an expansion slot and a $249 price tag, aimed at the midlevel market. Carl Yankowski, above, Palm's chief executive, said the company had postponed its October software developers' conference because of the terror attacks, and had delayed the scheduled preholiday release of an always-connected wireless device amid concerns about slumping consumer confidence. The stock fell 36 cents, or 14 percent, to $2.15. Chris Gaither (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); TERRORISM (52%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); EXECUTIVES (52%) COMPANY REPORTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: PALM INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: PALM INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS; YANKOWSKI, CARL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



597 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing South: Florida: Addressing Budget Deficit 

BYLINE:  By Gary Fineout (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Gov. Jeb Bush said he would call state lawmakers into a special session this fall to deal with a growing budget deficit. 
Tax revenue has been slowing in recent months and a $673 million budget deficit had been projected even before last week's terrorist attacks. Mr. Bush said the attacks would only weaken the state's $50-billion-a-year tourist industry and worsen the state's financial health. The governor said he wanted lawmakers to not only consider budget cuts but also ways to boost the economy, like using the state-collected aviation fuel tax on incentives to help the airline industry. Gary Fineout (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); FUEL TAX (85%); TRENDS (85%); TERRORISM (84%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); AIRLINES (82%); BUDGET CUTS (57%); TOURISM (53%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: FINEOUT, GARY; BUSH, JEB (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



598 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Aid For Trade Center Janitors 

BYLINE:  By Steven Greenhouse (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 New York's largest janitors' union and the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations reached an agreement yesterday to help the 2,000 janitors, elevator operators and security guards who lost jobs because of the World Trade Center attacks. The realty board and the union, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, agreed to provide the workers with health insurance and supplemental unemployment insurance equal to 80 percent of their gross pay for six months. Several dozen cleaning contractors also agreed to give preference to those janitors in future hiring.
 Steven Greenhouse (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); HIJACKING (87%); TERRORISM (84%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (84%); HEALTH INSURANCE (83%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; LABOR; GUARDS; BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%) SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



599 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
SIMON, MICHAEL JOHN

 BODY:
 SIMON-Michael John. Born July 27, 1961 to the late Charles and Peggyann Simon of Rye, NY has tragically passed to his eternal rest on September 11, 2001. His wife, Eileen (nee Isacsen), their children, Brittany Radcliffe, Michael John, Jr., and Tyler Ingram have been robbed of a devoted husband and loving father. Family and friends will grievously mourn this supportive, moral man of great character. Growing up in Rye, NY, Michael graduated in 1979 from Rye County Day School. He then attained a degree from Hobart College in Economics and Religion. He was an outstanding athlete in ice hockey, lacrosse, tennis and golf. Michael also completed a cross-country bicycling trip from Seattle, WA to Geneva, NY. Michael continued his love of athletics through coaching his children's teams in soccer, softball and baseball in Harrington Park. He never missed a game or a school function. Michael also leaves behind a brother, Scott (Margaret) Simon, sisters Christine Coats, Kathleen and Patricia Simon and brother-in-law E. Craig Coats. His in-laws Barbara and James Romaine, Cathleen and Robert Isacsen, as well as Kristen and Christopher Klass, Elise and Spiros Polikateros, Bridget and Robert DiMartini, Kathryn Isacsen, James and Fiona Romaine and Lenore and Mark Goley also survive him. His parents as well as his brother-in-law Scott Romaine have predeceased him. Michael leaves behind twenty-two adoring and devastated nieces, nephews and grieving aunts and uncles, Mary Ellen and Martin White and Madeleine and Bill Becker. 
The whole community of Harrington Park, his Wall Street business associates and clients will surely miss Michael. The premature loss of such a wonderful individual so loved and respected by all that knew him is society's loss. A memorial service will be held at Saint Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Closter, NJ at 1:30PM Saturday September 22nd. In lieu of flowers a special fund in remembrance of Michael has been established for his three children. Please send donations to: College Bound Fund, C/O Scott Simon, 95 Ferris Hill Road, New Canaan, CT. 06840. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); RELIGION (75%); SOFTBALL (70%); BASEBALL (70%); ICE HOCKEY (70%); LACROSSE (70%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); SOCCER (68%) 

PERSON: SIMON, MICHAEL JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 



600 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: EUROPE; 
Turmoil Hits Large Players And Shakes Second Tier

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Joining the forlorn procession of United States and European airlines facing grim prospects after the terror attacks in New York and Washington, British Airways, Europe's biggest airline, said today that it would lay off one-eighth of its workers, drop 10 percent of its flights and mothball 20 planes.
 Arguably, though, the real news is in the small print of the stock tables: British Airways' announcement drove its share price down an additional 7 percent, for a total decline of 42 percent since the Sept. 11 terror attacks. It also left its total market value at $2.64 billion -- which is, for the first time, less than that of Ryanair, the upstart low-cost carrier. 
 The development may signify a broad reshaping of European aviation. It threatens to push the struggling second-tier flag carriers, like Sabena, over the edge and leave the big three -- British Airways, Lufthansa and Air France -- to struggle with falling income, excess capacity and high costs, while nimbler entrants like Ryanair gain market share. 
And that, in turn, could mean a reintroduction of large-scale government aid, mirroring the United States government's readiness to prop up its airlines. 
The drumbeat of gloom has been steady this week:
*KLM of the Netherlands said it would not meet profit targets.
*Virgin Atlantic Airways, British Airways' biggest domestic rival, cut 1,200 jobs.
*Lufthansa said Wednesday that it would need an "immense effort" to avert a loss this year and that it would postpone orders for 15 Airbus A380's and 4 Boeing 747-400's.
*Aer Lingus of Ireland said it would cut back operations by one-quarter, retire 7 of its 40 planes, abandon some trans-Atlantic routes and lay off 1,700 people. 
*Alitalia said today that it would cut its work force by about one-sixth.
British Airways had already been downsizing, with 3,000 layoffs in 2000 and 1,800 announced this year before the terror attacks. Today's move adds 5,200 more.
"We face exceptional conditions, which have forced us to take very tough decisions," said Rod Eddington, the chief executive, in a statement. "The tragic events in the U.S.A. will undoubtedly have a significant impact on the demand for air travel in the months ahead." 
But the impact will probably not fall evenly on everyone. Among major European carriers, British Airways is the most exposed to the trans-Atlantic market, said Anthony Bor, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, "and that is the market we expect to decline most."
British Airways' strategy of concentrating on premium-fare business and first-class passengers adds to its vulnerability in an economic downturn, analysts said. 
One rung down from the majors, the global economic slowdown had already cast doubt on the futures of some ailing carriers, notably Sabena of Belgium and Swissair, which is reeling from a failed plan to expand through stakes in smaller carriers like Sabena. The fallout from the attacks will make resuscitating them much harder. Over all, European airlines may lose $2.5 billion to $3 billion this year, according to the Association of European Airlines.
Analysts like Jonathan Wober at Deutsche Bank say the fates of the second-tier carriers may depend on whether the European Union is moved by the pleas of airline executives, who are besieging officials in Brussels this week, and relaxes its stance against aid for the airlines. 
So far the European Commission has not given much ground. It said today that there was no prospect of direct government aid for airlines, though it might consider helping to defray insurance costs or relaxing landing-slot rules at some airports.
British Airways is among those pushing for an aid package akin to the one the Bush administration is considering for American carriers. "We want to compete on a level playing field," Mr. Eddington said.
The idea of state support irks others, like Robert Ayling, a former British Airways chief executive, who said past aid had hampered consolidation. Ryanair's chief executive, Michael O'Leary, also objects, saying, "State aid to selected state airlines that were loss-making before last week's events cannot be justified by the impact of last week's events."
Because Ryanair and the other low-cost European airlines fly only in Europe, not across the Atlantic, they may suffer much less than the flag carriers, and they stand to gain if passengers look to save money. After a brief spate of cancellations at Ryanair, "bookings have returned to normal levels," Mr. O'Leary said. He added, "The immediate consequences of last week's events on Ryanair will not be material."
Still, the terror attacks "impinge directly on people's willingness to fly," said Brian Tora of Gerrard Asset Management, and more may stay home or take the train.

GRAPHIC: Photo: British Airways, Europe's biggest airline, announced yesterday that it would lay off one-eighth of its workers and scrap 10 percent of its flights. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MARKET SHARE (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (84%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (58%); BOEING CO (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (56%); AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; SABENA WORLD AIRLINES; LUFTHANSA GERMAN AIRLINES; AIR FRANCE; KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES NV; VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD; AER LINGUS; ALITALIA 

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (58%); RYA (LSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); LHA (FRA) (58%); AF (PAR) (56%); AF (AMS) (56%); AERL (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); NETHERLANDS (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 

 
