

1 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Small Business Is Overwhelmed By Health Costs

BYLINE: By GLENN KRAMON

 BODY:
Millions of small American businesses that provide health coverage for their employees have been staggered in recent months by insurance rate increases of 20 percent to more than 100 percent.
Many who run these businesses say they can no longer afford insurance. They say they may have to drop their coverage if they cannot find a less expensive policy or transfer more of the cost to employees.
The frustration over rising medical costs is voiced by business owners around the country.
 
Too Expensive
''I've gotten to the point where I either have to give it up or change carriers,'' said Mitchell Black, the owner of a printing business with six employees in East Orange, N.J. ''I am losing a lot of sleep because I just can't afford to pay $5,102 every three months.'' 
The problem is troubling supporters of a growing effort in Congress and in some states to require all businesses with more than a few employees to provide for health coverage. More than 30 million Americans, many of whom hold jobs, have no health insurance.
What is more, representatives of business organizations say the sharp rises in health insurance costs could chill growth in the sector of the economy that has provided many new jobs in recent years. The 3.8 million businesses with fewer than 500 employees account for 53 percent of the American work force, and they have created nearly two of three new jobs in the past six years, according to the Small Business Administration.
 
'It's Real Serious'
''When you realize the economic development implications, it's real serious,'' said Francis M. Miller, president of the Colorado Business Coalition for Health, a Denver-based employers' group. ''And it's creating larger and larger pools of uninsured people as more small businesses give up on health insurance.''
Small businesses are not alone in facing higher medical costs. Increases for businesses of all sizes are averaging 20 to 30 percent this year, up from 15 to 25 percent last year, recent surveys have found. The reasons for the increases include sharp medical inflation, the rising use of expensive treatments, the need to cover the cost of care for the uninsured and those under government medical programs that have limited what they will pay.
But there is wide agreement that the cost increases have been even greater for many small businesses, as well as for the small minority of Americans who buy their insurance on their own.
Among the main reasons is that insurance carriers are moving away from the past practice of assigning the same rate to all policy holders in a community.
''The concept of group insurance is beginning to fall apart, at least for small businesses,'' said Robert Hunter, president of the National Insurance Consumer Organization, a consumer group in Alexandria, Va.
A new survey by the National Federation of Independent Business, a group in San Mateo, Calif., that represents 570,000 businesses averaging 13 employees, found that increases in health insurance premiums for its members ranged from 20 to 200 percent this year. Managers at insurance companies agreed that premiums had been sharply rising this year and said many increases were 20 to 35 percent.
Annual insurance premiums for small businesses now range from less than $1,000 an employee to almost $10,000, depending on age, region, family members and other factors, industry people say.
Carolynn Miller, the group's legislative representative, said 90 percent of the businesses say it is becoming ''prohibitively expensive to provide health insurance.''
Indeed, the survey found that the percentage of members offering health insurance has leveled off at about two-thirds or even declined slightly since 1986, after growing between 1978 and 1986.
 
Increase of 74%
Mr. Black, who started his printing business 20 years ago and began offering health insurance 14 years ago, said his rates under Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey rose 74 percent in July. His rates have almost tripled, from $1,811, in just over three years, and he is now looking for another insurer.
Ray Morgan, who runs a waste-hauling business with seven employees in Algona, Iowa, said he recently switched insurers for the second time in a year to avoid increases of 83 percent in 11 months, to $2,685 a month from $1,471. The first carrier was the Principal Financial Group in Des Moines, and the second was Connecticut General Life.
Mr. Morgan found a policy under Blue Cross and Blue Shield that is only 11 percent more expensive than his previous policy. But he added, ''Through the ordeal I've become somewhat cynical, and I expect to see the cost of this policy go up too.''
 
'Tremendously Big Check'
A popular restaurant in San Francisco, Perry's, was forced to switch carriers a year ago when its previous insurer proposed an increase of almost 50 percent for its 50 full-time employees, said the restaurant's owner, Perry Butler. He said he recognizes ''the positives that medicine has brought us,'' but added, ''It's a tremendously big check that you hate to write.'' As in many businesses, his employees now pay part of the premium.
Business and insurance people cite several reasons that rates have risen faster for many small businesses.
''Government programs like Medicare have set limits on what they will pay for various medical treatments, and the largest companies can negotiate their own deals,'' Mr. Miller said. ''The doctors and hospitals then shift costs to the small consumer - to small companies and individuals.''
Also, many small businesses have not yet begun the cost-containment measures now used by larger businesses, like health maintenance organizations and reviews to eliminate unnecessary tests, operations and days in the hospital, said Dr. Jules H. Lichtenstein of the Small Business Administration.
 
Different Rates
Another factor is that instead of basing their rates on the claims experience of a large number of people and offering everyone one price, many insurers will now establish rates based on factors including the age, sex, geographical location and line of work of the group, said Richard W. Hill, a vice president and actuary at the Prudential Insurance Company of America. Insurers in some places also establish further categories that partly reflect the business's actual claims experience.
As a result, a costly illness by one person in a small business could in some cases affect the company's rates far more dramatically than at a big company, insurance experts said.
 
Excluding Risks
Also, insurers that once routinely accepted new accounts have begun to make the decision more carefully, requiring each applicant in a very small business to fill out a medical history. High-risk candidates can then be excluded, or coverage for certain existing medical conditions can be waived, or premiums can be increased.
''You don't have the type of shared-risk environment you had before,'' said Maureen E. Sullivan, director of business strategy consulting at the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. She said most Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans have spread the cost across as many people as possible but that smaller insurers were fragmenting the market by signing up only healthy people.
Health costs for many small businesses are also rising faster than those for big ones because of a difference in the way they are insured.
 
Self-Financing
Most larger businesses finance their own insurance and are exempt from state regulations that govern the insurance carriers used by most small businesses. In some states, such regulations require health plans to include specific benefits that unregulated companies might not, like coverage for in-vitro fertilization in a few states and mental health care in many. Such regulations raise the cost of coverage - by 20 percent in some states, according to Blue Cross/Blue Shield. Some companies then decide not to offer even basic coverage.
Also, most insurance carriers last year had underwriting losses equal to about 4 to 5 percent of their revenue, and are now trying to recoup those losses through prices that are even higher than the increase of 15 to 25 percent expected for health care expenditures this year, said Steven G. Auerbach, an associate consultant at Blue Cross/Blue Shield.
Finally, smaller businesses pay higher administrative costs, 15 to 40 percent of the total cost of the premium, compared with about 5 percent for the largest businesses, said Jack Needleman, vice president at Lewin/ICF, a Washington health-policy consulting firm.
In confronting their high costs, small businesses are trying various tacks. Some are forming bigger groups with more power in purchasing medical coverage.
 
Forming an Alliance
In the Denver area, for example, small companies are participating in the Colorado Health-Care Purchasing Alliance. The alliance has contracted with doctors and hospitals for the lower prices that only large companies typically enjoy.
Prudential and Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans around the country have begun to offer networks of doctors and hospitals to small businesses.
Other small businesses are slowing the increase of their costs simply by asking employees to contribute more for their health care.
But the Federation of Independent Business is seeking other changes, including exemption from state regulations so that insurance carriers can offer no-frills plans to small businesses.
The group is also seeking to increase to 100 percent the tax deduction of the cost of health insurance for self-employed business owners. The deduction is now 25 percent, compared with 100 percent for incorporated businesses.

GRAPHIC: Graph of percent increase in medical cost, 1987-1989, by number of employees (Source: National Association of Manufacturers) (pg. 3O)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MALAYSIAN NATIONAL INSURANCE SDN BHD (50%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE; RATES; FRINGE BENEFITS; SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (86%); INSURANCE (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: KRAMON, GLENN



2 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL MEMO;
'Class War' Pitch Now Fails, Democrats Find in Tax Defeat

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30

 BODY:
The Democratic defeat on the capital gains tax in the House of Representatives this week is raising new questions on Capitol Hill about the party's message, the strength of its leadership and its ability to hold the line against a popular President.
Within the party, it has fueled debate over the wisdom of an appeal to voters that relies on economic classes. The Democratic leadership fought against cutting the top tax rate on capital gains, an important proposal of President Bush's, as ''a tax cut for the super-rich,'' a gift paid for by the middle class.
In the aftermath of the Democrats' 239-to-190 defeat, that approach, a staple of the Democratic Party and reminiscent of the unsuccessful 1988 Presidential campaign of Richard A. Gephardt, now the House majority leader, is drawing criticism on both sides of the aisle. 
 
New Republican Possibilities
''The thing I think our party has missed is that the American people do not buy in, in any fundamental way, to a class warfare political argument,'' said Representative Les AuCoin, Democrat of Oregon, who voted with his party's leadership. ''The American people, at this point of our history, are looking for leadership that argues for economic growth strategies.''
The debate over tactics and message is only part of the fallout from the capital gains vote. Sixty-four Democrats defected from their leadership for a broad range of reasons, an amalgam of local concerns, personal loyalties and regional ties. But the sheer size of the defection has given the Bush Administration and the Republican Party a sense of new possibilities in the House, a Democratic bastion for 35 years and a place where Republican Presidents must build coalitions to prevail.
It has also clearly wounded the new Democratic leadership team, including Thomas S. Foley of Washington, the Speaker of the House, who drew a line in the sand that he could not defend.
 
Sharp-Edged Message
''It pushes Bush very much into the driver's seat on economic issues now,'' said Representative Mickey Edwards of Oklahoma, chairman of the Republican Policy Committee. ''It means he sits down at a bargaining table confident that on most major issues he's going to deliver all the House Republicans and Foley has no idea what he can deliver.''
In framing the debate on the capital gains measure, which is part of a huge budget bill that still needs approval from the House and the Senate, Representative Gephardt, from Missouri, presented a sharp-edged message that pitted the limousine set against the middle class, ''the super-rich'' against the first-time home buyer.
It was the kind of populist appeal that prompted Republicans to assert that the Democrats were ''campaigning to an America that existed 40 years ago,'' as Mr. Edwards put it.
But the criticism was not confined to Republicans. Representative Ben Jones, a Georgia Democrat who voted against the Democratic leadership, declared, ''The party I know and love and have worked for is not interested in class warfare cliches.'' Representative Ed Jenkins, the Georgia Democrat who led the drive for a capital gains reduction, said, ''I don't think that plays anymore.''
 
Portrayal of Tax Increase
Mr. Gephardt countered, ''To the extent there was a pointing out that this proposal for capital gains had an uneven, unfair economic aspect to it, it came out of the truth of the matter.'' Mr. Gephardt added that the Democratic leadership ''needed more time'' to get the full message across on its tax package, which included components like individual retirement account benefits for the middle class and a fund for reduction of the Federal budget deficit.
Some Democrats also worried that their party's package was being portrayed by Republicans as a simple tax increase, even though the increase it proposed would apply only to the 600,000 highest-income taxpayers.
And some Democrats remained troubled that in their biggest economic clash with the Bush Administration, the party had resorted to a traditional appeal that left it open to Republican charges that it was being divisive and backward-looking.
The extent of Democratic defections has led to comparisons with 1981, when the Reagan Administration forged an alliance with the Southern conservatives known as Boll Weevils to enact its economic agenda. But politicians from both parties said the capital gains vote was different.
Rather than a hard and lasting ideological cleavage, they said, the Democratic crossovers represented a mixture of political, regional and personal factors. The concerns of the timber industry played a role, for example, and so did longstanding commitments to Representative Jenkins, the architect of the measure, and the five other Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee who supported it.
 
A Shifting Coalition
''The people who came together were drawn from such a wide range of intersts and philosophies,'' said Mr. Edwards, that many ''are not going to be with us like the Boll Weevils of '81. It more signals a shifting coalition.''
Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the Republican whip, agreed, arguing that a coalition for Mr. Bush's programs in the House would not be a true conservative coalition but would have ''slightly different allies depending on the topic.''
Representative Jenkins argued that Congress is in an era in which ''we'll see more of a bipartisan approach than we've seen in the past'' on an issue-by-issue basis. He said, ''This President is not an ideologue.''
The Democratic leadership dismisses the notion of any lingering coalition emerging from the capital gains vote. But the precedent of Democrats' resisting their party's position and working with the Administration on such a high-stakes partisan issue is clearly ominous for the new leadership team, which took control only a few months ago. There was some talk in Democratic circles this week that the new leadership, which received much early praise for Mr. Foley's conciliation skills, could nevertheless use a shrewder, street-fighting edge.
Democratic leaders and their allies say they have lost a vote but gained a campaign issue that they will use against Mr. Bush in future elections. ''Losing is never winning,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, chairman of the House Democratic caucus. ''But nor is losing, per se, disarray. I think we got into the issue late. There was a very strong sentiment and the White House worked it very hard.''
Mr. Hoyer noted that Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the Speaker during most of the Reagan Administration, was widely criticized in 1981 for not controlling Democrats in the face of Mr. Reagan's legislative onslaught. He added that Mr. O'Neill was ultimately ''viewed as one of the most effective Speakers we ever had.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri (David Conklin); Representative Mickey Edwards of Oklahoma (Paul Conklin) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



3 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-27
 
East Germans left Bonn's embassy in Prague, where they had been camping, and boarded buses on their departure to West Germany. Page 1
 
Ankara, at the U.N., will press Bulgaria on Turks 19
 
Vatican ties with the Soviet bloc have begun to fundamentally change, with an easing of mutual suspicions and a lowering of diplomatic barriers that had been intact for decades. 1
 
Anglican head prays with the Pope in Rome 4
 
Who owns the Soviet Union? That debate is to begin tomorrow as the nation's parliament takes up a law defining the notion of property. 15
 
Soviet dissidents begin to find the Voice of America boring 18
 
Poland's censors start to fade 18
 
President Mubarak of Egypt called Prime Minister Shamir and repeated a conditional offer to meet with the Israeli leader, officials said. 6
 
Lebanese legislators hold talks in Saudi Arabia 5
 
A stepped-up civil war in Cambodia appears inevitable to more people a week after Vietnam's withdrawal. For many, the main question is what does the Khmer Rouge want. 22
 
Cambodian guerrillas claim capture of three towns 23
 
Guatemala is a major drug source for South American cocaine headed to America and Europe. The change has occurred in the last two years, with a boom in local poppy growing. 24 
 
Chilean Army gets U.S. copters 27
 
Communist runs in Brazil 26
 
Colombia flower exports surge 25
 
A plan to renovate a California canal has locked the U.S. and Mexico in a major dispute over the use of water from the Colorado River. 3
 
Philippine rebels show strife has not reduced their strength 13
 
South Africa disbands Koevoet, the special Namibia police 8
 
In Ethiopia, ex-prostitutes used as warriors against AIDS 10
 
French premier faces strikes and the left's fire 14
 
NATIONAL/28-35
 
Crack has moved to the middle class, despite reports that drug use has declined among the affluent. The largely invisible use appears to be exacting large economic costs. 1
 
Hurricane damage in Puerto Rico is far worse than was thought. On one island, electricity is still two months away; Puerto Rico unemployment has risen to 70 percent. 1
 
New York area aids islands 33
 
Increases in health insurance rates in recent months of 20 percent to more than 100 percent have staggered millions of small businesses that provide health coverage to employees. 1
 
Doubts over the Democrats' strategy have been raised this week after a defeat on a capital-gains tax cut. Some wonder whether appeals based on economic class can still succeed. 1
 
The new weapon against cholesterol and saturated fats is said to be the oil canola, which is made from the rape plant. American farmers hope the oil brings benefits to them, too. 28
 
F.D.A. questions use of grain in three cereals 28
 
A $78 million settlement of a lawsuit against the Government by neighbors of a uranium plant in Fernald, Ohio, was backed by a Federal judge. 28
 
Owner and skipper of tanker fined for Newport spill 29
 
Alaska fund pays big dividend 34
 
A clash of the 60's is being replayed in Mississippi, where a debate is boiling about disclosure of information kept by a state agency that harassed the civil rights movement. 28
 
Episcopalians reach compromise over female bishops 31
 
Chicago journal: A new process in a ritual of cleansing 28
 
REGIONAL/36-41
 
Can Rudolph Giuliani play tough? His recent defense of his criticism of David Dinkins made one thing clear: He must raise doubts about his rival without seeming to attack him. 40
 
New polls in the New Jersey race for governor show that voters making up their minds heavily favor the Democrat, James Florio. 38
 
Radon in New Jersey said to pose a grave risk 41
 
Hospital workers plan to strike Wednesday against most of New York City's private hospitals and nursing homes, in a high-stakes push to resolve a contract dispute. 38
 
A capital gains tax cut's effect on New York City appears to be unclear. While it may help the securities industry, city officials worry the cut would reduce Federal aid. 36
 
Bronx man beaten in attack that police call race-related 36

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); PUERTO RICO (92%); TURKEY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); HOLY SEE (88%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EGYPT (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); CHILE (79%); POLAND (79%); LEBANON (79%); ITALY (78%); BULGARIA (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (90%); ROME, ITALY (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); VOICE OF AMERICA (56%); VOICE OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: RADON GAS; TESTS AND TESTING EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); CENSORSHIP (77%); GENOCIDE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RELIGION (77%); TAX LAW (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); AIDS & HIV (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); COCAINE (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (64%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); HURRICANES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); OILS & FATS (64%); LITIGATION (62%); TROPICAL STORMS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (60%); RADON (59%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); 

PERSON: DAGGETT, CHRISTOPHER J HOSNI MUBARAK (53%); 



4 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 25, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Another Colombian Crop Takes Off: Flowers

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EL ROSAL, Colombia

 BODY:
In the high Andean plains here, Reynaldo Garcia Navas lives in a world bounded by Thanksgiving, Valentine's Day and Secretary's Day.
''This carnation was cut 10 minutes ago,'' Mr. Garcia said, selecting a bright red flower in the cold storage area of his flower farm. ''Tomorrow, it will be in Miami. The day after, in a local florist.'' 
Coaxing Colombian flowers to bloom according to American holidays is part of a booming new export business.
In the last 20 years, Colombia's exports of fresh cut flowers have soared, from virtually nothing in 1969 to an expected $250 million this year, making it the nation's fifth largest export.
Today, Colombia is the second largest flower exporter in the world after the Netherlands.
The flower industry has taken hold in the high, sunny plateaus outside of Colombia's two largest cities, Bogota and Medellin. In a boon to areas with high unemployment, the labor-intensive industry now directly employs 70,000 people and gives indirect employment to 30,000 more.
In the year-round springlike climate here, millions of roses, carnations and chrysanthemums bloom under tented plastic.
With the eyes of the United States now focused on Colombia because of the Government's war with cocaine traffickers, Jorge Enrique Uribe Salazar, president of the Colombian Association of Flower Exporters, hopes to win tariff concessions for Colombian flowers.
Mr. Uribe's target is a 4.4 percent duty on American imports of Colombia flowers. The tariff was imposed five years ago in response to American flower growers who complained that the Colombians were dumping, or selling at below market prices. The Colombians admit that in July and August they are often forced to sell to brokers in Miami for prices that are below production costs. American flower prices traditionally are low at that time of year for a variety of reasons: there are few weddings, many people are on vacation and there are no major holidays associated with flower giving.
''Obviously, I don't want to sell below cost,'' said Mr. Garcia, general manager of Colibri Flowers. ''But flowers grow all year round and they are perishable. I have to sell them.''
To appease the Americans, Colombian growers say they have ended a series of Government subsidies - tax breaks, duty-free imports of agricultural implements and bank loans extended at below market rates.
American officials here do not seem to be moved by Colombia's complaints of protectionism. ''Don't look at the lawsuits, don't look at the arguments,'' said an official at the American Embassy here. ''Look at the final figures, look at the enormous gains for Colombian flowers in the United States.''
The American official noted that Colombia's flower exports to the United States this year are expected to be 20 percent higher than last year's level. #15 Cows or 1.6 Million Flowers But, production here is expanding as more and more ranchers discover that the acreage that supports 15 cows will also support 1.6 million flowers. Several industry analysts say the Colombians should explore new markets.
Japan would be a natural market, but exporters here say they are handicapped by poor airline connections and by Japanese protectionism.
''Japanese prices are so high that Colombian flowers would be very attractive,'' said Mr. Uribe. ''But they have a very high level of protection. There are no duties, but when the flowers arrive at Narita Airport, they are inspected one by one.''
Another solution is to induce Americans to buy more flowers. Americans buy only $15 worth of flowers a person each year. Europeans buy between $35 and $65 worth of flowers a person.
''I compare flowers to wine,'' said Mr. Uribe, warming to the idea of a joint Colombian-American effort to promote flower consumption in the United States. ''Twenty years ago, Americans really didn't drink wine. Now you have flowers entering America's mainstream - they are sold in supermarkets and chain stores.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FLOWERS AND PLANTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) EXPORT TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (87%); THANKSGIVING (78%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); COCAINE (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (51%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (51%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES



5 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: In Brazilian Race, a Communist Stands Out

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 27

 BODY:
Flipping through Brazilian television channels one recent evening, viewers had the choice of a comedy, ''Cockroach Cabaret,'' an action show, ''Tank Commando,'' or a one-hour interview with Roberto Freire, one of 28 minor-party candidates for President.
The next morning, pollsters discovered that the highest audience share, 23 percent, went to Mr. Freire, a congressman who is the first Communist presidential candidate in Brazil since 1945.
Despite the engaging smile and commanding voice that helped him attract the television ratings, Mr. Freire, a 47-year-old lawyer, is given virtually no chance of winning the election here on Nov. 15. 
Although the race is far from decided, the current front-runner, Fernando Collor de Mello, a centrist former Governor, has scored 39 to 45 percent in public opinion polls since May.
Mr. Freire's candidacy highlights the wide range of electoral diversity in Brazil, the world's third most populous democracy after India and the United States.
The country was ruled by generals from 1964 to 1985, and to justify dominating politics for two decades the military frequently cited the need to purge Brazil of Communism.
Forced underground, the Communist Party splintered. Several factions took up arms against the military Government, and hundreds of Communist militants were arrested and tortured. Dozens were killed. Democracy Embraced Today, the Communists are above ground, opening campaign headquarters and chasing after voters under the slogan, ''With Democracy to Socialism.''
One day, the heavyset Mr. Freire is filmed puffing around a soccer field, pursuing Brazil's national pastime with a team of Rio intellectuals. Another day, he is in Recife, leading a campaign parade of dune buggies down a beach-front avenue. Another night, he is sipping beer at a college campus fund-raiser.
''For years, we let our adversaries define us,'' Mr. Freire said this week while resting on a couch at a private residence here. ''Brazilian society is still deeply prejudiced against Communism.''
Brazilians are cautiously welcoming the Communists back. Most of Brazil's 80 million voters came of age under military rule. In recent weeks, many undoubtedly have been startled to see Mr. Freire cordially received by Sao Paulo industrialists, Roman Catholic archbishops and Roberto Marinho, the conservative president of the powerful Globo television network.
Wrapping controversial opinions in a congenial demeanor, Mr. Freire has won wide press coverage disproportionate for his low rating in the opinion polls.
 
Atheism Explained
In a campaign where candidates seek not to offend, Mr. Freire never shrinks from stating his positions: legalization of abortion; a moratorium on repaying Brazil's debt of $120 billion owed to foreign bankers; big investment in education and health and distribution of unproductive farmland to landless peasants.
Asked which line in his campaign speech draws the most applause, Mr. Freire replied readily, ''Brazil is the eighth-largest market economy in the world, but it ranks below 50th in living standards.''
In a country with the largest population of Roman Catholics in the world, the Communist candidate spends much time explaining his atheism.
''The great mass of Brazilian society calls itself Christian,'' the candidate said on a recent radio talk show. ''Nevertheless the society is perverse and spawns crying social injustices.''
Press reports often mention his church wedding to Leticia Baltar and that his wife attends Sunday Mass regularly.
When interviewers persist on the religion issue, he likes to cite Pedro Casaldaliga, a left-leaning Roman Catholic bishop, who said recently, ''It's preferable that an atheist like Roberto Freire become President than a corrupt Catholic.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GBO (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: GLOBO PLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); SOCCER (64%); RELIGION (64%); FARM LABOR (61%); LAWYERS (55%); ARRESTS (51%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; FREIRE, ROBERTO



6 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 34, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Alaska Oil Fund's Dividend Is Second Largest

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: JUNEAU, Alaska, Sept. 30

 BODY:
This year, when thousands of people in Alaska felt the effects of the nation's largest oil spill, the state's residents will receive their second largest annual check from Alaska's oil wealth savings account.
This year's dividend from the $10.5 billion Alaska Permanent Fund will total $873.16 for each resident, state officials announced on Thursday. That is more than $46 over what was paid last year. 
Checks will be mailed beginning Oct. 9, more than six months after the tanker Exxon Valdez went aground in Prince William Sound and spilled nearly 11 million gallons of oil.
Voters created the trust fund in 1976 to save a portion of the state's oil revenue. The idea was to make sure the state would benefit from its oil wealth long after the oil was gone.
 
Residency Requirements
Since 1982, a portion of the fund's earnings has been given each year to every Alaska resident who meets the residency requirements, regardless of age or income. To qualify as a resident, a person must live in the state from October of the previous year through March.
The largest check, $1,000 for each resident, was given out the first year. The amount being given out this year is the largest since then.
''For many families, the annual dividend distribution is anticipated as a welcome and necessary part of their annual income,'' Hugh Malone, the Alaska Revenue Commissioner, said in announcing this year's dividend The state estimated that 517,693 people were eligible this year to receive the dividend. The fund's earnings in the year ended June 30 totaled $868 million, up from $789 million in the previous fiscal year. Of that, $452 million was made available for dividends.
The fund's principal cannot be spent. The portion of the earnings not used for dividends is used to protect the principal from inflation and to raise the earnings reserve account.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); 

CITY: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; DIVIDENDS OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (72%); 



7 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 36, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Capital Gains Tax: New York Boon and Burden

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
A boon to the wealthiest New Yorkers and a burden on local governments already struggling with severely diminished Federal support was one scenario sketched by executives and public officials last week as they assessed the possible effect in New York City if the capital gains tax rate is reduced.
At the heart of the debate over whether the measure would help or harm the city - or even make a difference - is the question of how much it would stimulate the economy and offset a drop in Federal tax revenues.
As passed Thursday by the House of Representatives, the top tax rate on capital gains - primarily from the sale of stocks - would be reduced to 19.6 percent, from 33 percent, through the end of 1991. The reduction will now be considered by the Senate. 
Every Democratic member of New York City's delegation - except Robert Garcia of the Bronx, who is a defendant in a Federal bribery trial -voted against the tax rate reduction. The two Republican Congressmen from the city voted to approve it.
The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that 60 percent of the benefits from such a cut would go to taxpayers earning more than $200,000.
 
View From City Hall
Citing that figure, Deputy Mayor Stanley E. Grayson, who oversees finance and economic development from City Hall, said: ''I'm not sure, in an environment where economic growth has slowed, that capital gains affecting, in large part, people with incomes over $200,000, will serve to reverse the direction things are going - i.e., slower growth. I just don't believe that.
''The end result will be that state and local governments will have to do more because the Federal Government will have less,'' Mr. Grayson said. ''And I think that is a very real concern.''
''The offsetting benefits derived from lowering capital gains are certainly not immediate and, at best, in the long term. And I think the effects of the lowering of capital gains on cities and states will be a lot more immediate.''
But Craig M. Hatkoff, a managing partner of the Victor Capital Group, which deals in commercial real estate and real-estate investment, said, ''It's clear that when people feel richer, they tend to spend more.''
''Any time there is a tax cut, it is good for the psychology,'' he said. ''It will be a bit of a boost for the securities industry, but given the predominance of the institutional investor, it will not have much of an impact.''
 
No Opposition by City
''To the extent it helps the securities industry,'' Mr. Hatkoff said, ''it has a ripple effect in New York, helping law firms and accounting firms. It could help the downtown real-estate market, which is soft. But I don't want to overstate the effect. I don't think it will be very dramatic for commercial real estate.''
The city did not formally oppose the measure on Capitol Hill but did make its concerns known, said Judy L. Chesser, New York City's chief lobbyist in Washington. ''There are estimates that the capital gains tax cut is a $21 billion loss to the treasury over nine years,'' she said.
''State and local governments have already lost roughly one-third of the Federal money they got at the beginning of the 1980's,'' Ms. Chesser said, ''and this puts on pressure to cut them even deeper. We can't afford to take further cuts.''
There seems to be agreement that the measure, if passed, would stimulate a surge in sales of assets before 1992 to take advantage of the lower rates. An earlier surge occurred three years ago, as the rates were about to go up.
In New York State in 1985, for example, the amount of net taxable capital gains was $16.1 billion, according to the office of State Comptroller Edward V. Regan. In 1986, just before the rates rose, capital gains soared to $31.5 billion. In 1987, after the increase, they plummeted to $14.1 billion.
 
'An Incredible Distortion'
''Our people feel that it's conceivable that the same scenario would occur,'' said Marvin Nailor, press secretary to Mr. Regan. ''This is a very, very tricky area. That's why we cautioned about it last year and the year before, in terms of relying on capital gains as a predictable revenue.''
It is not just the loss of money that bothers the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. ''This is going to result in wild swings in revenue for the states from year to year,'' said Charles Loveless, associate director of the union's legislation department. ''This is going to result in an incredible distortion of economic behavior.''
But not everyone is alarmed by the prospect of a surge.
''Wall Street is tied to transaction turnover, and this should stimulate that,'' said David Bostian, president of Bostian Research Associates, an economic consulting firm. ''It probably is a positive for Wall Street, and the financial-services industry is significantly tied to the overall economy of the New York area. But it isn't a massive thing.''
Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional commissioner of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, said, ''It will have a one-shot effect on loosening up people who have been sitting on assets.''
''People may be more disposed to shift to other assets,'' he said. ''That will mean more volume, so it will have a stimulating effect on the activity in the markets, and the markets are tied into the New York economy. So it will have a positive effect on New York, but it is a quite minor plus.''
Mr. Ehrenhalt, however, shared the concern of local officials and said, ''If this leads to a tightening of the budget situation, and therefore to cuts in Federal expenditures, then it may have a negative effect.''
Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat who represents Harlem, voted against the tax reduction. Mr. Rangel ''agreed with those who said the benefits were heavily skewed toward the wealthy,'' said an aide who asked not to be identified, and he was ''not convinced that changing the rate will considerably improve the economy.''
Mr. Rangel's aide added, ''It's sure not going to make a lot of difference at 125th and Seventh.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Deputy Mayor Stanley E. Grayson, shown with Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1987. (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VICTOR CAPITAL GROUP LP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FEDERAL AID (US) TAXES & TAXATION (94%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); TAX LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); APPROVALS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MAYORS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); LAWYERS (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%); BRIBERY (53%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W



8 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 38, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: High-Stakes Strike Looms for Hospitals

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

 BODY:
Pinning its fortunes to a sharp escalation of a long-simmering contract dispute, the state's largest hospital workers union is preparing for a high-stakes strike Wednesday against most of the New York City area's private hospitals and nursing homes.
Public health experts, union leaders and analysts of organized labor say the outcome of the threatened strike, by roughly 50,000 members of Local 1199 of the Drug, Hospital and Health Care Workers, will determine for the near future the cohesiveness and influence of one of the largest, most dynamic and, recently, one of the most troubled labor unions in the city.
Weighing in the balance as well, these observers say, are the economic fortunes of a hospital industry experiencing serious financial difficulties and personnel shortages made worse by growing numbers of poor and uninsured patients and by AIDS and crack.
 
Last Strike in '84
The last prolonged hospital strike by the 100,000-member union, a 47-day walkout in 1984, created havoc in the hospitals and hurt them financially. But that strike's failure to secure the workers' wage demands was seen as a bitter defeat for the union and led to the rank and file's jettisoning of its leadership. 
During months of negotiations, the union has held out for terms similar to the two-year pact reached last June with four private hospitals run by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York providing for annual salary increases of 8.5 percent.
The League of Voluntary Hospitals, which represents most of the city's other private hospitals, has consistently answered that its members cannot afford such an increase at a time of mounting deficits in many institutions and uncertainties over the future of the state-designed hospital reimbursement system that largely determines revenues for all health-care providers.
 
Shortage of Workers
The League has offered a 4.5 percent salary increase with a one-time signing bonus of $500 for the workers, whose weekly wages are typically in the range of $300 to $400.
The union has argued that without larger wage increases hospitals will continue to suffer shortages of its member workers, like nurses aides, laboratory and X-ray technicians, social workers and orderlies.
Friday evening, North General Hospital in Harlem broke with the hospital league, reaching a tentative agreement providing essentially the same terms as the Catholic hospitals.
North General is the third of the 54 hospitals represented by the League to choose the cost of such a pact over a strike's disruption of services.
 
Stepping Up the Pressure
Since its old contract expired on June 30, Local 1199 has carried out a carefully measured policy of gradually increasing pressure on the hospitals.
An array of politicians, including much of the New York City Congressional delegation and local officials like David N. Dinkins, the Democratic mayoral candidate and Manhattan Borough President; Andrew J. Stein, the City Council President; Borough Presidents Claire Shulman of Queens and Fernando Ferrer of the Bronx; much of the City Council, and numerous members of the State Assembly have repeatedly turned out for breakfasts and rallies to show their support.
 
Short of Benefits
Over the summer the union conducted three short-term walkouts, meant to gradually raise the discomfort level of the hospitals while focusing public attention on the impasse.
But faced with the imminent collapse of their benefit fund, which has been depleted in the absence of a contract, union officials say that they have been forced, with some trepidation, to resort to an open-ended hospital strike against close to 60 hospitals and nursing homes.
Union leaders and public health experts say that one of the union's concerns - that a strike could derail Mr. Dinkins's campaign - has ebbed as recent polls have shown Mr. Dinkins with a sizable lead over his Republican opponent, Rudolph W. Giuliani.
 
'A Scary Prospect'
''All of the political muscle in the world did not move these guys,'' Barbara Caress, a senior adviser to the Local 1199 president, Dennis Rivera, said, referring to the League.''Now we come down to the big one - a strike -and it's a scary prospect.''
''A strike is like the economic equivalent of warfare,'' said Victor Gotbaum, the former union leader who is Samuel Gompers professor of labor-management relations at the City University Graduate Center. ''At this point nobody can really want a strike, and no one can predict the outcome, but it looks like one is pretty likely right now.''
Until the landslide election of Mr. Rivera earlier this year, Local 1199 had been for years a divided and dormant force on the local labor and political scenes, crippled by its past failures.
 
A Career on the Line
If the coming strike drags on, many say, mounting salary losses could again sharply divide members, leading them to question the leadership's tactics. And outright failure could blight the career of Mr. Rivera, seen by many as the bright and ambitious rising star of New York labor.
William J. Abelow, president of the League of Voluntary Hospitals, minimized the pressure a strike would place on his members. ''While it may create a crisis, it won't produce a settlement,'' he said.
Mr. Abelow said the hospitals were prepared to cope with the strike, but called the union's plans to strike the New York Blood Center, whose contract with Local 1199 has also expired, ''potentially threatening to patient lives,'' and ''irresponsible.''
But others who are privy to the debate among hospital administrators say there is a growing, althouth still minority, sentiment in favor of a settlement similar to the Catholic hospitals' contract to avoid a costly disruption of services.
 
Lengthening Patient Stays
By robbing hospitals of experienced workers, a strike would inevitably increase the length of time the average patient would remain hospitalized. Since the state's reimbursement system pays hospitals on the basis of patient diagnoses, not according to their length of stay, delays in discharging patients would mean great losses in revenues.
Coping with a strike would also cause hospitals to cancel most elective or discretionary procedures - which are generally the most lucrative.
Many explain the League's reluctance to match the Catholic settlement as a product of its unease over current state efforts to redesign or alter the medical reimbursement system.
''For the hospitals, the strike threat is only one factor in a scene filled with uncertainty,'' said Robert D. Gumbs, executive director of the New York City Health Systems Agency, a public planning group.
Mr. Gumbs said that while several members of the hospital league are tempted to settle for essentially the same contract terms accepted by the Catholic hospitals, many others, especially the city's large and influential academic medical centers, feel they face too many financial unknowns to agree to anything more than modest wage increases.
For a settlement to be reached, Mr. Gumbs said, ''the union is going to have to be flexible, but the providers are going to have to do something more and so will the state.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRUG ABUSE, CORPORATION AGAINST

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LABOR; STRIKES; HOSPITALS; NURSING HOMES HOSPITALS (95%); LABOR UNIONS (92%); STRIKES (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CITIES (89%); CONTRACTS LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (77%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); AIDS & HIV (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); MAYORS (70%); RELIGION (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W



9 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2276 words

HEADLINE: Virgil Thomson, Composer, Critic and Collaborator With Stein, Dies at 92

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
Virgil Thomson, whose homespun, subtly sophisticated compositions and witty but trenchant criticism made him a central figure in American intellectual life for 55 years, died early yesterday in his suite at the Chelsea Hotel in Manhattan. He was 92 years old, and his health had been in decline for several months.
As a composer, Mr. Thomson is best known for two operas to texts written by his longtime friend Gertrude Stein: ''Four Saints in Three Acts'' (1934), which earned him a distinction among intellectuals that he never relinquished, and ''The Mother of Us All'' (1947). He also received a Pulitzer Prize - the only one ever awarded for a film score - for his music for ''Louisiana Story'' in 1948.
Mr. Thomson began sending music reports from Paris to The Boston Evening Transcript in 1921, and continued writing through the 1920's and 30's for journals like Modern Music. His ''State of Music,'' a lively but incisive overview of the musical scene, was published in 1939, and he continued his observations until very recently: his ''Music with Words: A Composer's View,'' is scheduled for publication this month by Yale University Press. 
But the bulk of his journalism came as chief music critic of The New York Herald Tribune from 1940 to 1954. His prose - ''sassy but classy,'' he called it - breathed a mastery of American prose style and a spunkily opinionated expertise that set Mr. Thomson apart from his critical peers.
 
Magnetic Force, Twinkling Eyes
Beyond his work, Mr. Thomson was a magnetic force within the social world of American intellectuals, with his sharp tongue, twinkling eyes and owlish face and figure. His dinner parties at the Chelsea Hotel were the stuff of legend. He seemed, up to the very end, to know everyone in the worlds of music, art, dance and letters.
''The death of Virgil T is a like the death of an American city: it is intolerable,'' said Leonard Bernstein. ''Virgil was loving and harsh, generous and mordant, simple but cynical, son of the hymnal yet highly sophisticated. He will always remain brightly alive in the history of music, if only for the extraordinary influence his witty and simplistic music had on his colleagues. I know that I am one twig on that tree, and I will always cherish and revere Virgil, the source.''
 
'Gift for Cracking Square Center'
Ned Rorem, the composer and a friend of Mr. Thomson's, said yesterday, ''I learned as much from him about being a professional musician as from anyone else.
''Using Virgil Thomson as an absolute, only three or four critics come up to par,'' he added. ''They may share Thomson's perception and even exceed his scope, but none boasts his unquenchable panache - his gift for cracking square center with that perfect little Faberge hammer.''
Betty Allen, a soprano who sang Mr. Thomson's music from the early 1950's and who now runs the Harlem School of the Arts, said: ''He was an intellectual, but his music wasn't pretentious. He had great ideas on the linkage between music and the English language, and the rhythm of it, and he was concerned about people and their lives.''
Virgil Garnett Thomson was born in Kansas City, Mo., on Nov. 25, 1896. He had his first piano lessons at age 5 from a cousin, Lela Garnett. He had enjoyed making music before any schooling. ''I improvised,'' he related in his autobiography, ''with flat hands and the full arm, always with the pedal down and always loud, bathing in musical sound at its most intense, naming my creations after the Chicago fire and similar events.''
From the age of 12, he received formal piano instruction from a succession of teachers, and also served as substitute organist at Calvary Baptist Church, which the Thomson family attended, and other Kansas City churches.
 
No Gift for Fiction
At Central High School in Kansas City, Mr. Thomson honed his writing skills, but soon decided that he had no gift for poetry and fiction, preferring either expository prose or the setting of words to music.
''I can describe things and persons, narrate facts, '' he later wrote. ''But I do not assemble my pictures and my people into situations where they take on memorability, which is what storytellers do. Nor can I make a language change its sound or words their meaning, which is the faculty of poets. Language, to me, is merely for telling the truth about something.''
By the time Mr. Thomson finished high school, World War I had begun, and he enlisted in the National Guard, studying radiotelephony at Columbia University and aviation at the University of Texas. He received overseas orders in September 1918, but the Armistice was signed on Nov. 11 before his troopship embarked for France.
Instead, in 1919, Mr. Thomson entered Harvard College. There his three most influential teachers were Archibald T. Davison, the French-trained conductor of the Harvard Glee Club; Edward Burlingame Hill, also French-trained, with whom he studied music history and orchestration, and S. Foster Damon, a poet, Blake scholar and composer.
 
Studied With Nadia Boulanger
''I remember him bringing me music and books he thought I ought to know,'' Mr. Thomson said of Damon. ''Some of these I found merely informative or charming. Others changed my life. Among these last were the piano works of Erik Satie, a pile of them four inches high, and a thin small volume called 'Tender Buttons' by Gertrude Stein.''
Harvard had a profound impact on his life. Satie influenced Mr. Thomson's music more than any other composer, and Stein became his most important collaborator, helping shape his musical prosody.
In 1921, after a tour of Europe with the Harvard Glee Club, Mr. Thomson remained in Paris for a year on a John Knowles Paine Traveling Fellowship. He chose to study organ and counterpoint with a young teacher named Nadia Boulanger, who subsequently became the doyenne of several generations of American composers, from Aaron Copland to Philip Glass. He also befriended Mr. Copland, Jean Cocteau, Darius Milhaud and Francis Poulenc, finding for the first time a circle of likeminded artists and intellectuals in which he felt fully at home.
Mr. Thomson's move to Paris also helped inaugurate a post-World-War-I shift in American musical allegiances toward France and its neo-classical ideals of lightness, clarity and humor.
Returning to Harvard in 1922 to complete his bachelor's degree, Mr. Thomson spent a year in New York and another in Boston, as organist and choirmaster of King's Chapel. He also gave the first American performance of Satie's ''Socrate'' with the Harvard Musical Club. In 1925, however, he went back to Paris and remained there, apart from brief visits to the United States, until 1940.
 
'I Felt at Home in France'
''I felt at home in France,'' he explained, ''with its music, its food, its people, its reading and writing.'' For him, it was no sacrifice to abandon the economic security of America for the financial marginality of Parisian Bohemia. ''I prefer to starve where the food is good,'' he said.
It was in Paris in the mid-1920's that Mr. Thomson's mature style took shape, with the ''Sonata da Chiesa,'' a chamber score; four organ pieces based on Baptist hymns, and the ''Symphony on a Hymn Tune.'' He also cultivated an impressive circle of friends, among them James Joyce, Ezra Pound, Igor Stravinsky and Pablo Picasso. But he disdained the idea of a ''lost generation'' of American artists in exile, which he called ''personal publicity for Ernest Hemingway.''
''We were no more lost than any other group of people is at any time,'' he said.
The key event of this period was his first meeting in 1926 with Stein, to whom he was introduced by the composer George Antheil. They remained close until her death in 1946, except for a four-year estrangement.He had set her poem ''Susie Asado'' before their meeting, and immediately afterward composed music for her ''Preciosilla'' and ''Capital Capitals.''
 
Stein Wrote Every Word
The two soon began work on the opera ''Four Saints in Three Acts.'' Stein wrote every word, including the stage directions, and the initial composition was completed by 1928. Originally a plotless effusion by celestial Spanish saints, full of whimsical questions and paradoxical mystical visions, the opera was pruned by Mr. Thomson and fitted to a pageant-like scenario devised by his longtime friend, the painter Maurice Grosser.
The meeting with Stein crystallized Mr. Thomson's conception of his own best gifts as a composer, which involved the setting of texts - particularly her texts - to a music that mirrored their childlike charm and refined intimations of an America momentarily forsaken but never abandoned.
''Poetry alone is always a bit amorphous,'' he wrote, ''and poetry as spontaneously structured as Gertrude Stein's had long seemed to me to need musical reinforcement. I do not mean that her writing lacks music; I mean that it likes music.''
The premiere of ''Four Saints in Three Acts'' took place at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford on Feb. 8, 1934, and it caused a sensation, which was reinforced by the production's subsequent travels to New York and Chicago. It was Mr. Thomson who decided, after the opera had been conceived and composed, that the cast should be entirely black.
Still living in Paris, Mr. Thomson subseqently composed a body of instrumental works, especially for string instruments; undertook a series of mostly piano ''portraits'' of friends that sought to capture their spirits in sound, a lifelong preoccupation; collaborated with the documentary film maker Pare Lorentz on two highly acclaimed films, ''The Plow That Broke the Plains'' and ''The River,'' and wrote ''Filling Station'' for Lincoln Kirstein's Ballet Caravan.
 
Style Owed Much to Satie
His musical style, now fully formed, owed much to Satie and French neo-classicism, but it was original and never bound by orthodoxies imposed by himself or others. In retrospect, the basic concerns and stylistic signatures of his music - open intervals, Baptist hymns, clear and sensitive text-setting, cheerful fanfares, almost proto-Minimalist repetition - seem distinctive enough.
Mr. Thomson once described Satie's music in terms that suit his own: ''It has eschewed the impressive, the heroic, the oratorical, everything that is aimed at moving mass audiences. It has valued quietude, precision, acuteness of auditory observation, gentleness, sincerity and directness of statement.''
His last two operas, ''The Mother of Us All'' and ''Lord Byron'' (1972), reached out to a larger public and more expansive level of rhetorical expression. Stein's text for the former paints a moving and more narratively coherent (if still wonderfully quirky) portrait of Susan B. Anthony and the struggle for women's suffrage. Asked later why he had not written more operas with Stein, Mr. Thomson said, ''It had not occured to me that both of us would not always be living.''
Jack Larson's libretto for ''Lord Byron'' is more conventional in its operatic depiction of personal passion and epic scale. That opera has not received the recognition of the two Stein scores, but Mr. Thomson always cherished it.
In 1940, with war engulfing Europe, Mr. Thomson returned to the United States, moved into the Chelsea Hotel, at 222 West 23d Street - where his grand apartment, awash with artistic memorabilia, became a cultural landmark - and assumed his critical post at the New York Herald Tribune.
His tenure there, ended at his own wish, was distinguished by a prose style at once tart, impassioned and instructive. The critical tone in New York then was mostly conservative and oriented toward the analysis of performance. Mr. Thomson concentrated on the music, new music in particular, and was sometimes airily dismissive of the idols of the day -- among them Arturo Toscanini and Vladimir Horowitz, whose pianistic repertory and style he dismissed as ''silk-underwear music.''
 
Snoozing During Performances
His opinions were sometimes outrageous and sometimes a little breezy -he liked to give the impression that he was seeing some Wagner operas for the first time, and may well have been. His snoozing during performances was also legendary, although he always insisted that he awoke if anything interesting happened. But his writing was always delightful, and it commanded a readership far beyond musicians and music lovers.
After 1954 Mr. Thomson continued his composing and his criticism, mainly for The New York Review of Books, although his appearances as a conductor and lecturer were eventually limited by deafness. His Herald Tribune reviews were collected in four books, his autobiography (''Virgil Thomson'') appeared in 1966, later essays appeared in ''American Music Since 1910'' (1971), and ''The Virgil Thomson Reader,'' a selection from his writing, won the National Book Critics Circle award for criticism in 1981. His ''Selected Letters'' appeared in 1988.
He also received many awards, including 16 honorary doctorates, membership in the National Institute of Arts and Letters and in the French Legion of Honor, and the Kennedy Center Award for Lifetime Achievement.
His end seemed almost exactly like that of his sister Ruby, who died in 1979 at the age of 93. At that time Mr. Thomson wrote a cousin: ''She was certainly entitled to die, and I am happy that she did not suffer. She merely faded away, largely stopped eating, then one night she didn't breathe anymore.''
There are no survivors. A memorial service has been planned for Nov. 25 at 3 P.M. in the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine. It would have been his 93d birthday.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Sunday about the composer and critic Virgil Thomson misidentified a performer whose repertory was dismissed by Mr. Thomson as ''silk-underwear music.''
Mr. Thomson made the comment about Jascha Heifetz, not Vladimir Horowitz.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Virgil Thomson and his longtime friend Gertrude Stein examining a page of the manuscript of ''Four Saints in Three Acts'' in 1934.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OBITUARY

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); JOURNALISM (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); 

PERSON: THOMSON, VIRGIL; ROCKWELL, JOHN VIRGIL GARNETT THOMSON (96%); 



10 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 3, Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: FRANK LANGELLA;
A Humbling Account

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Much as I respect and admire Frank Langella's work, upon beginning his article I was fully prepared for a brief and unsuccessful search for the single sympathetic bone in my body. A successful actor's plight? Spare me. And this I admit with no little shame, since as an employed clinical psychologist, generally I am in the sympathy/empathy line.
I am humbled. He put forth a moving account of living with frequent unemployment and the anxiety associated with constant evaluation by powerful others.
Thank you, Mr. Langella, for having the talent, perseverance and, dare I say it, courage, to keep the rest of us entertained.
 
JUDITH TUTIN
Hoboken, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATER LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FILM (87%); 

PERSON: LANGELLA, FRANK; TUTIN, JUDITH FRANK LANGELLA (95%); 



11 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
An Opera Rivalry Rivals Civic Rivalry

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
Those longtime California competitors, San Francisco and Los Angeles, are now engaged in an operatic rivalry that may wind up benefiting both cities. For decades, the San Francisco Opera perched alone on top of its roost as the West Coast's only opera company of national distinction. But today there is a flock of opera companies there that has attracted widespread attention, from Seattle through San Francisco to San Jose, Los Angeles, Costa Mesa, Long Beach and San Diego.
Of these companies, the one with the biggest annual budget ($11.5 million) after San Francisco's $31 million is the four-year-old Los Angeles Music Center Opera. And given the pre-eminence of San Francisco and Los Angeles among West Coast cities, a comparison seems particularly apt.
No grandiose conclusions can be drawn after one quick California opera trip, with two performances sampled in each city. But on the basis of that visit, along with conversations with Peter Hemmings and Lotfi Mansouri, who head the Los Angeles and San Francisco companies, respectively, as well as many previous visits, a few observations can be ventured. 
Despite a bad patch at the San Francisco Opera in the 1980's, and widespread local apprehension that the city was being outstripped economically and culturally by its southern nemesis, the company has plenty of artistic vitality left. And despite some flashy productions, an excellent theater for opera and bedazzling prospects, the Los Angeles company is still No. 2.
Los Angeles arrived on the operatic scene in the wake of the 1984 Olympic Arts Festival in that city, an event that, along with some bold new museums, attracted worldwide attention. And the opera arrived just when the San Francisco Opera was reeling from the retirement of its longtime general director, Kurt Herbert Adler, and the erratic artistic decisions and managerial skills of his successor, Terrence A. McEwen.
With bold repertory choices, splashy productions (Jonathan Miller and David Hockney are regulars) and a shrewd blend of young singers and stars (Placido Domingo was enlisted as ''artistic consultant'' and has appeared there steadily as both tenor and conductor), the Los Angeles company quickly established a hot image. It was thus able to attract both traditional opera lovers and a trendier crowd drawn from the West Los Angeles entertainment community and the sort of new-wavers usually seen at art museums or the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
According to Mr. Hemmings, its dapper English general director, the company has overcome its early money troubles. ''We certainly knocked up a healthy deficit in the first three years,'' he concedes. But, he hints, the only way to build the company on a big-time basis was to leap boldly onto the local cultural map and thereby to attract enough support to relieve the debt in the long run.
Right now, he says, the board oversees fundraising to the annual tune of $4.5 million, $1.4 million of which goes toward the relief of a debt that once totaled $5 million. When the debt is paid off, the extra money will help build a capital reserve. The company also receives $2.5 million annually from the Los Angeles Music Center United Fund.
Attendance the past two seasons has hovered around 83 percent (it was 93 percent in the debut season of 1986-7, but with half the number of performances as now), and Mr. Hemmings said the first two operas of this season have averaged ''in the 90's.''
Assuming continued audience and critical support and growing fundraising clout, the company's real prospects for growth will come after 1994, when the long-aborning, Frank Gehry-designed Walt Disney Hall is completed. At that point, the Los Angeles Philharmonic will move to the new hall and the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion will be turned over to the opera company - as well as to visiting orchestras and recitalists and ballet companies. Mr. Hemmings also hopes that there will be a 1,000-seat theater for smaller operas in the Disney Hall, complementing the 3,100-seat Pavilion, which everyone concedes is a better hall acoustically and visually for opera than it has been for the Philharmonic.
At that point, Mr. Hemmings plans a 12-week season in the fall, nine more weeks in the spring and four weeks of a musical in the summer. There will be four performances a week of two alternating operas, with another two in rehearsal at any given time. Each opera will be performed a total of six times.
Certainly the performances thus far have been promising, with mostly interesting repertory and productions, solid casting, good orchestral and choral work and a lively crop of younger singers under contract for the smaller roles. This fall, the season opened with a Brecht-Weill ''Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny'' that was solidly cast and conducted, rather blankly directed by Mr. Miller and handsomely designed by Robert Israel, with effective suggestions of the Hollywood ''city of nets'' of the 1920's.
Better still was a conventional production of ''Tosca'' sung and acted with real flair by Maria Ewing (a regular here), Mr. Domingo and Justino Diaz. Mr. Domingo had conducted the other performances of this run, stepping in at the last performance for Neil Shicoff, who was at a ''Traviata'' rehearsal at the Metropolitan Opera.
Up north, Mr. Mansouri's arrival this season to replace Mr. McEwen will probably bode well in the long run. The only problem is that Mr. Mansouri has won his reputation as a stage director through conscientious, uncontroversial but also unexciting productions. That gave some forward-looking members of the company's search committee pause, and when Mr. Mansouri accepted the post, he announced that he would restrain his directorial appearances in San Francisco and concentrate on administration - which he can do very well, as shown by his 12 years with the Canadian Opera Company in Toronto.
Unfortunately, for his debut season, Mr. Mansouri chose to take over a production of Berg's ''Lulu'' that was originally to have been borrowed from the Lyric Opera of Chicago. The result was flat and unimaginative, despite a strong musical performance highlighted by the 80-year-old Hans Hotter's cameo as Schigolch. But another San Francisco fall production, of Boito's ''Mefistofele'' by the Canadian team of Robert Carsen and Michael Levine, was a delight, frisky and stylish in the best eclectic post-modernist manner, with a strong cast and conducting.
San Francisco has a firmly based operatic tradition, with attendance steady at over 90 percent and with an established program of apprentice and touring companies. At 3,200 seats, the War Memorial Opera House houses only 1,000 more than the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion in its opera configuration, but is - for better and for worse - an altogether grander theater.
San Francisco already has its separate symphony and opera halls, and Mr. Mansouri hopes gradually to erode the long-established tradition of a dense schedule of fall operas (born when the symphony was waiting impatiently to get into the hall in the winter and spring), and to spread out the season year-round. He wants ''a complete presence in the community all year.''
Mr. Mansouri concedes that the bold beginning of the Los Angeles company did give San Francisco a jolt. ''Things were a little complacent here in the Elysian fields,'' he said. ''If you stand still, someone is going to pass you by.''
But, he adds, the Los Angeles company is a little young to be judged as an ongoing Southern California rival. And in any event, both general directors stress cooperation over competition.
Mr. Hemmings talks of the ''total collegiality'' between the two companies. ''We help each other out,'' he said, ''checking about casts and standby singers, and we will share productions in the future.''
''I think it's wonderful,'' Mr. Mansouri said. ''If Los Angeles is good, it stimulates everyone along the West Coast to be better. I find this kind of artistic competition to be very healthy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO OPERA; LOS ANGELES MUSIC CENTER OPERA

SUBJECT: OPERA OPERA (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); FESTIVALS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); THEATER (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN



12 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27, Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC VIEW;
Academia: Safety Net Or Threat?

BYLINE: By Donal Henahan

 BODY:
Trying to identify musical trends in a crazy-quilt culture can be frustrating. Even as the prophets of serious pop proclaim the dawn of a new age of democratic art, equally earnest thinkers for whom pop may be no more than a sound made by a very small gun examine the evidence and see Western music being homogenized and trivialized beyond hope by the new levelers. Since history never moves in only one direction at a time, both camps of seers may be right, if that is any consolation.
In the same mail recently I found messages from two writers who examine this question from different viewpoints. In the fall issue of Chamber Music, David M. Rubin reports on a financial survey he made of American string quartets. Mr. Rubin, a professor of journalism at New York University, gathered confidential data from six unidentified ensembles of widely varied experience and success: the youngest has been in existence ''under five'' years, the oldest ''over 15.'' In 1988, individual players in these groups earned, respectively, $4,772, $11,089, $12,497, $41,313, $53,505 and $114,268. Without knowing the quality of the quartets, it is possible to be shocked at the lowest figure, which falls far below the poverty line. It is also possible to be surprised at the highest figure, which is more than double the guaranteed annual salary of musicians in the highest-paid American symphony orchestras. 
Mr. Rubin's article paints a gloomy picture for all but the most famous ensembles. Managements siphon off 20 percent of all concert fees, which means they take more than any of the four players. Cellos also are a problem, in that they must fly as passengers, not luggage: ''One reason Quartet C made no money touring is that it laid out $3,968 for cello airfare in 1988, nearly a third of what each player had left to live on at the end of the year.'' Fees are not only low but frequently discounted: Quartet A played four concerts in a two-week tour for $3,200. And so on, in much depressing detail.
Looking at the balance sheets, Mr. Rubin concludes that the more a young quartet tours the more money it must lose - unless it augments income by finding residencies at colleges or other subsidizing institutions.
Several points may be overlooked in such a bottom-line report. In the last 50 years, the number of quartets touring America has grown beyond the audience's power to absorb them. Besides the handful whose names are recognizable to most music listeners, scores of ad hoc faculty ensembles exist at colleges throughout the land. Each wants its share of the string-quartet audience, which was always a small piece of the concert-business pie, even in the days when only the Budapest could hope to draw an audience in the hinterlands. Furthermore, it is a rare musician who exists solely on chamber-music income: at least in the formative years of an ensemble, teaching privately or on a faculty is a collateral way of life.
What is most interesting about Mr. Rubin's survey, however, is his conclusion that most quartets can only survive by finding places to roost in the subsidized world. If true - and his figures support the thesis - such a movement into the cloister would run counter to the trend hopeful observers perceive in the composing profession. There, the retreat from academia has evidently become so pronounced that one composer has taken to worrying that his colleagues are actually becoming too concerned about pleasing the public - too ''polite,'' as he puts it.
The other writer dealing with this subject is David Lang, a composer. Writing in Premiere, a newsletter of the American Composers Orchestra, he contends that the era when composers wanted to work in the sanctuary of academia has indeed passed: ''All the institutions those composers rejected, we now want. Everyone is writing orchestra music and operas and symphonies; young composers now want to write music and not teach it. Most of us feel these are improvements in our world view . . . ''
It concerns Mr. Lang, however, that in ''trying to plug ourselves into the mainstream,'' he and his fellow composers may lose their appetite for confronting or provoking the public. Populism may have gone too far. In fact, ''one reason why New York's downtown composers often seem refreshing is because they have found ways to avoid confronting the traditions of American music, finding inspiration in pop music or the music of non-Western cultures instead. It is much easier to appropriate another culture than to overthrow your own.''
Leaving aside the dubious proposition that the aim of composition should be to overthrow one's culture (a debater's overstatement, possibly), Mr. Lang's argument makes a certain quirky sense. He is especially annoyed that while Congressmen frequently attack the visual or literary arts as subversive, contemporary composition seems immune to persecution. He thinks this an embarrassment for composers, a tacit admission that they are afraid to rock the boat now that they have had some success in steering it into the mainstream.
So we have, on the one hand, young string quartets being advised to choose the subsidized life with its institutional comforts and dangers of isolation from the musical public. And, on the other, composers being warned that life outside the scholastic cocoon holds the peril of a sellout to a consumer-driven economy. The musician's lot was never an easy one, but was it always so complicated? Probably.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); TRENDS (90%); MUSIC (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); WRITERS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); AIR FARES (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); 

PERSON: HENAHAN, DONAL DAVID LANG (64%); 



13 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2912 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Giant Banks on the March photos of Yuko Oana and John McGillicuddy after the CIT deal (NYT/Vic DeLucia);

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Dai-Ichi Kangyo, the world's largest bank, isn't trying to catch the fancy of millions of American consumers, as Toyota and Sony have. It will settle for a close relationship with 10,000 or so corporate treasurers.
When Dai-Ichi Kangyo agreed to invest $1.4 billion in the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation in mid-September, the deal underscored just how attractive the American banking market had become to the Japanese. After years of laboring quietly in the United States, buying a few banks in California and arranging low-profit loans to large businesses, more Japanese bankers have been raising their sights lately to take aim at the so-called middle market of business borrowers, the most profitable sector of all.
The deal with Manufacturers Hanover, for instance, will give Dai-Ichi a 60 percent share of the CIT Group, a major finance company with 50 offices around the country. Besides having a projected profit of about $135 million this year, CIT is an ideal network to gain entree to medium-sized companies. 
''Expanding in the U.S. is of primary importance to us,'' said Yuko Oana, a senior managing director at Dai-Ichi who orchestrated the deal with Manufacturers Hanover. Through its New York branch, and other offices in Los Angeles, Chicago and Atlanta, Dai-Ichi already has more than $30 billion of assets in the United States, a level that would put it among the 20 largest American banking companies. The American market is particularly attractive, Mr. Oana said, because it produces higher profits than Japanese banks can get at home.
Those profits have been the catalyst for several other deals by the Japanese in recent years, albeit not on the scale of the Dai-Ichi purchase, which was by far the largest American acquisition by a Japanese bank. Now, however, the Dai-Ichi deal is seen as a harbinger of other large purchases by the Japanese.
''The Japanese banks were slower than others to expand overseas, but they are clearly making up for lost time,'' said Thomas H. Hanley, managing director at Salomon Brothers, the New York investment banking firm. Flush with fresh capital from a series of new equity offerings, and readily able to raise more capital at a lower cost than other banks, ''the Japanese banks have a real competitive advantage,'' Mr. Hanley said. Future alliances on the magnitude of the recently announced merger of Mitsui Bank and Taiyo Kobe Bank, creating the world's second-largest bank, will not be limited to Japan, he added.
As might be expected, the prospect of more competition from Japan's banking behemoths is giving the jitters to at least some American bankers. They fear that the Japanese will compete so fiercely for business from middle-market companies that they will cut prices and make do with smaller profits than American banks are used to.
And there is plenty of room to maneuver. Over the past nine years, excluding 1987, when they suffered huge losses on Latin American lending, large American banks on average earned three times more per dollar of assets than their Japanese counterparts. The largest American banking company, Citicorp, is the world's most profitable, even though it is only the 10th largest in terms of assets.
The Japanese success in industries like cars and consumer electronics raises the question of whether banking faces a similar future, and if so, what the benefits and costs might be.
''We will receive a supply of good products as the Japanese buy their way into the forefront of the financial services business,'' said Richard W. Wright, a professor of international management at Willamette University in Salem, Ore., and co-author of ''The Second Wave: Japan's Global Assault on Financial Services.''
But the danger, he added, is that Japanese dominance in banking would be ''another threat to our overall competitiveness and innovative capacity.''
 
Benefits Are Seen For U.S. Economy
 Not everyone is worried. Economists claim that if businesses can borrow more cheaply because of Japanese lending, the American economy and consumers benefit. And it still has not been proved that Japanese capital can buy success in other key lines of the banking business, including retail banking or financial advisory services like arranging mergers and acquisitions.
Robert E. Litan, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said there is no doubt that the Japanese pose a major challenge to American banks. But while that competition might prove painful to some banks in the United States, he sees little danger to its economy as a whole.
''The more alliances the Japanese banks form in the United States, and the bigger their market share, the less likely they are to rock the boat,'' Mr. Litan said.
And in Washington, there has been no move in the Senate or House of Representatives to investigate or limit the activities of Japanese or other foreign banks. In the past, legislators have threatened to prevent Japanese banks and securities firms from acting as primary dealers in Treasury securities. Primary dealers are a prestigious group of firms designated by the Federal Reserve that dominate trading in the Treasury securities market. But the threat of legislative action has become more remote as the Japanese gradually opened their financial markets to more American companies.
Much of the impetus for the push to expand overseas has come from the saturation of the Japanese banking market. Corporate lending opportunities for Japanese banks have been cut as large companies turned to the financial markets for their funding. With savings in Japan growing by about $1 billion per day, the keen competition for local investments keeps profit margins low and encourages banks to look elsewhere for new opportunities.
''At first in the 1960's and 1970's, Japanese banks just followed the industrial companies who were their customers in Japan,'' said Takanori Mizuno, New York director of the Institute for Financial Affairs, a Japanese information and educational organization. ''But about 1980, they began to approach U.S. corporations, and by the middle 1980's, they saw the opportunities in the middle market.''
The push overseas gained momentum in the past two years after banking regulators in major Western countries agreed on uniform financial standards that required Japanese banks to greatly increase their capital. After raising $26.5 billion of equity, or shareholder money, in the past year, the Japanese banks are comfortable with the new standards and have a new-found sense of their financial muscle.
Michiya Matsukawa, chairman of the Nikko Research Institute and a former senior official in Japan's Ministry of Finance, noted that the additional capital has put the Japanese banks in a position where they are more tempted than ever to gain market share overseas by shaving interest rates on loans.
That practice, while it benefits borrowers, is worrisome to bankers and regulators in countries where new capital cannot be raised as cheaply as in Japan. In those countries, including the United States, banks rely heavily on the higher profits to accumulate a cushion against hard times.
The Japanese banks got still another reason late last week to pay more attention to foreign lending opportunities when the Bank of Japan, in an effort to curb inflationary pressures, ordered the banks to reduce the growth rate of lending in Japan during the fourth quarter.
American bankers have for several years lamented the influx of foreign banks, which accounted for 27.5 percent of all outstanding domestic business loans by the middle of 1988, up from 21.4 percent five years earlier. Japanese banks account for half the foreign bank lending, up from a 34 percent share five years ago. Most of that growth, bankers agree, has come from ''bargain basement'' pricing of loans to large corporations that owe no allegiance to any bank, except the one offering the lowest price.
''The term 'house bank' is quickly disappearing,'' said Rainer E. Gut, chairman of Credit Suisse, Zurich, an internationally minded lender. And outside Japan, he said, ''Corporations are gradually losing their fear of entering business relationships with Japanese banks.''
Since the 1950's, when Japanese banks first began to appear on the American scene, they have concentrated on corporate banking, first with Japanese companies, then with American corporations doing business with those Japanese companies. While Japanese banks operate huge branch systems in their home country, they have yet to tackle the retail market here, except in California.
The strong presence of Japanese industrial companies and a large Japanese community have made California so attractive to Japanese banks that they now control about a quarter of the state's deposits and more than 30 percent of its business loans.
About 10 Japanese banks, including the Bank of Tokyo, Sanwa, Sumitomo and Mitsubishi, now own full-service banks in the state. Through a series of acquisitions in the past few years, they have dramatically increased their stake in the retail market, to the point where they now have 424 branches, up from 247 in 1982.
But even with these branches, the Japanese have concentrated on business lending rather than the consumer market. In line with that philosophy, they have not bought any savings and loans, despite the availability of many financially troubled savings institutions in California and other parts of the nation.
 
Big Purchases In California
 Two of the largest acquisitions they have made have been from British banks that found the California market too tough for their liking. The Bank of Tokyo, for example, bought the Union Bank, a San Francisco-based specialist in middle-market lending and construction financing, from Standard Chartered P.L.C. for $750 million a year ago, and now has the fifth-largest bank in California. Lacking a branch network in Japan, the Bank of Tokyo now has more than 9,000 employees in the United States and only 5,000 in Japan.
The other British deal came in 1986, when the Sanwa Bank of California, now the state's sixth largest, paid $263 million to acquire the Lloyds Bank of California.
Despite their growth, the Japanese in California have not broken the grip of the four largest American banks, which continue to control about two-thirds of the market. And so far, the Japanese have not managed to operate efficiently enough to generate the same amount of profit from each dollar of assets as the Americans.
Gary C. Zimmerman, an economist at the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank, noted in a recent study published by the bank that ''there is no compelling evidence that Japanese commercial banks have an advantage in providing retail banking services in California.''
The California experience has been humbling enough that some Japanese bankers, including those at Dai-Ichi, which operates the largest branch system in Japan, disavow any intention of making a major push into the American consumer market. In fact, Dai-Ichi sold its retail banking operation in Chicago this year.
Similarly, Hisaya Nara, deputy president of the Mitsubishi Bank of Tokyo, said he expects rapid growth to continue at the Bank of California, which Mitsubishi acquired in 1984, but not necessarily in the retail sector. Assets at the Bank of California, now the seventh largest in the state, are expected to rise to $10 billion within two or three years, from about $7 billion now. But rather than going after consumers in a big way, Mitsubishi's primary effort will be to pursue middle-market business customers, Mr. Nara said.
The middle market that the Japanese are courting more assiduously than before in the United States is loosely defined, but is generally meant to include the thousands of companies that have revenues above $5 million yet are not large enough to rank among the Fortune 500.
As the largest corporations have learned to bypass banks and borrow directly in the capital markets through the sale of commercial paper or bonds, bankers have avidly cultivated the middle-market companies. Because those companies lack access to the capital markets, they rely more on bank financing, and tend to pay higher interest rates than the largest corporations.
The average interest rate on loans to all borrowers at Manufacturers Hanover, for example, is 2.4 percentage points higher than what the banking company must pay for its borrowed funds. But at the CIT Group, which lends exclusively to middle-market clients, the interest spread is more than 5 percentage points.
Even if Japanese banks resist the temptation to gain market share by cutting prices, they gain other benefits from their financial strength. John F. McGillicuddy, chairman of Manufacturers Hanover (which continues to hold 40 percent of CIT), said that profits at the finance company would be helped as the backing of the capital-rich Dai-Ichi reduces CIT's cost of borrowing.
Japanese banks have long recognized the profit potential in the American middle market, but they have also recognized that it is a hotly contested area that relies more on personal relationships with borrowers than does lending to the largest corporations. So far, the Japanese have found it easier to gain middle-market customers through acquisitions, particularly from companies in some sort of financial difficulty.
Manufacturers Hanover, for example, did not want to sell control of CIT, a company that it had worked hard to improve after buying it from RCA in 1985. But the New York bank faced a dire need for capital to cover losses on its loans to Latin American countries. Besides giving up the 60 percent stake in CIT, Manufacturers sold 4.9 percent of its stock to Dai-Ichi in their $1.4 billion deal.
Earlier, in 1985, the Sanwa Bank bought a leasing unit with more than $500 million of assets from the Continental Illinois Corporation. That deal came at a time when Continental was selling most of its non-bank assets to recover from losses on fraudulent oil loans it bought from the Penn Square Bank of Oklahoma.
In 1983, the Fuji Bank paid $425 million to buy the Walter E. Heller International Corporation, a struggling finance company that was about to be acquired by the Security Pacific National Bank in Los Angeles for $400 million. Although Fuji has since invested more than $1 billion in Heller, and has only recently begun to show a profit, it gained a foothold in thousands of corporate boardrooms through Heller's network of offices in 68 cities.
 
On the Prowl For Opportunities
 Not all the recent Japanese purchases have been from distressed sellers:
* In June, Security Pacific sold 5 percent of its consumer and commercial finance operations to Mitsui Bank for $100 million and gave Mitsui an option to buy another 5 percent at the same price.
* Later in the summer, Orix International, Japan's largest leasing company, bought the leasing operations of the Los Angeles-based First Interstate Bancorp for $190 million.
* And in mid-September, Daiwa Bank, Japan's 15th largest, paid $200 million to buy a pool of American middle-market loans from Lloyds Bank of London. Daiwa also picked up 15 offices in the United States from Lloyds, taking a shortcut around the normal process of obtaining approval from Japanese regulators for each new office.
According to Dai-Ichi's Mr. Oana, there are many other opportunities in the United States. While running the bank's New York branch during the past three years, he said, he was approached at least 10 times with offers to buy American financial companies. Last week, Dai-Ichi announced an alliance with Clayton & Dubilier Inc., a New York-based specialist in mergers and acquisitions, and promised to invest $100 million in a corporate buyout fund managed by the New York company. Dai-Ichi is still looking to acquire a California-based finance company that could operate in tandem with a small bank it owns in San Francisco.
The pressure to expand into American financial markets is not confined to the largest Japanese banks. So far, 32 of Japan's 64 regional banks have offices in the United States, along with 9 of the country's 68 ''sogo'' banks, a kind of mutual savings institution.
''Right now, there are only four or five regional banks that have gone beyond their Japanese customers to seeking business with American firms,'' said Bruce E. Aronson, a partner at the law firm of Hughes, Hubbard & Reed. ''But in three to five years I expect to see another 20 or 25 doing that.''
While the prospect of even more Japanese competitors is daunting to many American bankers, they should remember that the imposing size of the newcomers reflects the limited number of banks in Japan. The Japanese market is divided among only about 150 banks, compared with more than 13,000 in the United States.
The best way to help American banks meet the challenge posed by the powerful newcomers is to ''modernize the U.S. financial system by eliminating barriers to interstate banking and bank activities in the securities markets,'' said Lawrence R. Uhlick, executive director of the Institute of International Bankers, which includes several Japanese members.
''In a global economy, Americans have to recognize that there is going to be a significant segment of the U.S. financial market owned and operated by non-domestic institutions, just like American firms own and operate significant businesses in other countries,'' Mr. Uhlick added.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); photos of Yuko Oana and John McGillicuddy after the CIT deal (NYT/Vic DeLucia); drawings; graph of return on assets for four largest Japanese-owned banks in California and that ot the three largest American-owned banks in California, 1986-1989* (*first quarter) (Source: Sheshunoff Bank Quarterly); chart of foreign banks with the largest U.S. presence at year-end 1988, indicating home country, U.S. assests, and percent change from a year ago (Source: Federal Reserve) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); CIT (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CIT GROUP INC (56%); TAIYO KOBE BANK LTD (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAI-ICHI KANGYO BANK LTD; MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (76%); MERGERS (75%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL JOHN F MCGILLICUDDY (74%); 



14 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: A Doctor for Struggling Economies

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
If Hollywood were casting it, Jeffrey Sachs might be the Indiana Jones of economics.
With outspoken views and a penchant for third world countries, the 34-year-old Harvard economist finds adventure wherever he goes. Last week, his presence was felt here throughout the annual International Monetary Fund meetings. On Wednesday, he was at the Polish Embassy, where officials of the Solidarity-backed Government unveiled an ecomomic plan to ''shock'' Poland into free-market reforms - a plan that Mr. Sachs helped devise. That same day, he appeared on a panel and jousted with world bankers over the Mexican debt plan. The day before he met with the President of Venezuela in New York.
For years, Mr. Sachs has been offering prescriptions for resolving the woes of troubled economies, primarily in Latin America. His flamboyant style, close ties to third world leaders and insistence that poor countries stop paying foreign debt has made him an enfant terrible of the Western banking establishment. 
Now, he has turned his attention to Poland, where he has proposed nothing less than an overnight transformation of an economy on the verge of bankruptcy. The ''Sachs Plan'' calls for the elimination of state subsidies, the lifting of price controls and a sell-off of state industries, with the cost being a rise in unemployment and prices. But Mr. Sachs promises that in six months the hyperinflation that has gripped Poland should end. Within two years, the country should be on its way to recovery.
This drastic perscription is vintage Jeff Sachs. It came after eight trips to Warsaw, where Mr. Sachs captured the ear of Solidarity leaders and Polish economists.
To be sure, many of his ideas were not new. But Mr. Sachs added a special spin, arguing that the changes must take place fast while the new Solidarity Government still enjoys popular support.
''Our big debate was whether to grow our economy step by step or to make it a Big Bang,'' said Witold Trzeciakowski, a Polish economic adviser to Solidarity. ''Jeffrey Sachs came at the right moment and stressed that things be done in a quick way. He played a very important role.''
Within the world of economics, Mr. Sachs is unusual and controversial - not only for his views but for his skill at promoting them and himself. ''I'm not a naive do-gooder,'' he said in an interview in his cluttered office overlooking Harvard Square in Cambridge, Mass. ''The funny thing is that a lot of the solutions that I proposed in 1985 for the third world crisis are now coming home to roost.''
He tries to put his theories about ending hyperinflation to work by staying on a first-name basis with political and economic leaders from La Paz to Warsaw to Capitol Hill. For instance, Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, praises him. ''Jeff's experience working with politicians and policy makers in developing countries gives him a dimension that's often lacking in people who are more purely theoretical,'' Mr. Bradley said.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Sachs' high-profile ways have brought both admiration and carping from fellow economists. ''Jeff's style is flamboyant, although I'm not sure it's always productive,'' said Rudiger Dornbusch, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist. ''He's never stepped anywhere without being controversial. Take Bolivia. Most people hardly knew Bolivia existed until Jeff pounded the facts before the Treasury Department and the I.M.F. The press is always looking for the other side and Jeffrey Sachs represents that. He's loud and he's noisy in denouncing I.M.F. policies.''
Mr. Sachs' biggest claim to fame so far has been in Bolivia, where he is credited with helping reduce inflation from 40,000 percent to 15 percent in a matter of months in the mid-1980's by implementing a drastic austerity program. Despite this ackowledged success, he is continually at odds with the Western banking establishment over his pronouncements that the only way third world countries can escape hyperinflation is by renouncing their debt payments to the West.
But he is also strong in his insistence that third world countries repair their economies through tight budgetary restraints.
''Here I am viewed by banks as some crazy radical or someone who is trying to throw the banks' money away,'' said Mr. Sachs. ''In Latin America, I am often attacked as a crazy reactionary because I say that the key to economic success is in cleaning up their economic act.''
But it is not so much what he says as how he says it. He frequently wraps economic theory in impassioned, moralistic terms. For instance, he is not above linking banks' reluctance to write off troubled loans in Bolivia with a rise in the country's infant mortality rate.
''I don't say don't pay debt because this is some kind of a game,'' said Mr. Sachs. ''I say don't pay it because what you are paying is keeping people from eating and may cause the country to explode. There is no virtue in so strapping a people that you end up with social chaos.''
Words like that cause bankers to cringe or become angry, but what is particularly frustrating for the bankers is that they cannot ignore Mr. Sachs. ''He's been quite influential,'' said Karen Lissackers, a Columbia University economist. ''From the banks' standpoint, he's a radical. But because he's from Harvard and because he's a very able economist and because he has a lot of influence with borrowers, he's got clout. He may be anathema to them, but they have to pay attention.''
Executives at major banks can be scathing in their comments about Mr. Sachs, but as an indication of his stature, none interviewed were willing to have their names printed with their specific criticisms.
But in the third world, he is treated with first-name friendliness and glowing praise. For instance, in La Paz, Fernando Romero, the former Bolivian Minister of Planning and Coordination said: ''Mr. Sachs steps on a lot of toes because he is so blunt and direct and lots of people call him lots of names. But once you sit down to work with him, it's a formidable experience. He's brilliant. He has an extraordinary ability to grasp the core of problems and say, 'Here's how to do it.' ''
According to Mr. Romero, Mr. Sachs did not formulate Bolivia's drastic economic austerity program, but he helped refine and implement it.
''He was extraordinarily helpful in the process of implementing many of our measures,'' said Mr. Romero. ''In the toughest times, we would be on the telephone at 3 A.M. and 4 A.M. in the morning. He'd take the input of our economic behavior and say, 'Watch out for this or that.' ''
His specialty at Harvard has been hyperinflation - those periods of severe economic dislocation when the economy begins to make no sense, money looses its value and, often, social unrest and political upheavals are not far behind. Most of his work has flowed out of this academic interest. The Bolivian project, for instance, grew from an invitation from a former student.
At Harvard, which he attended as an undergraduate, he became a professor at age 28 and received tenure just a year later. Mr. Sachs is not shy about his academic accomplishments. His curriculum vitae runs some 13 pages and contains such tidbits as the fact that he graduated third in his Harvard class of 1,650 students. He took pains in an interview to note that he is a member of Harvard's elite Society of Fellows.
The bulk of his activities are paid for by various United Nations grants and by other agencies with development programs. His trips to Poland are paid for by the Stefan Vatory Society, which is funded by the Hungarian-American businessman George Soros.
There seems little doubt that his work with Poland will be his biggest challenge yet. Already the ''Sachs Plan'' has become a matter of debate between those who favor radical free-market reform and those who feel the new measure might cause hardships that would become politically intolerable, among them falling real wages, rising prices, a drop in the standard of living and up to a million jobs lost.
Mr. Sachs said he answers his critics with the words of one Solidarity economist: ''You don't jump over a chasm in two leaps.''
The flaw in his plan may be that Poland lacks the financial institutions to provide a sustained economic response once hyperinflation is tamed. ''He hasn't seriously thought through that this is a central planning economy,'' said Anthony Levitas, a Harvard doctoral student who has spent the last nine months in Poland studying the economy. ''The Poles don't have the kind of market infrastructure that will insure that workers will get work and goods will get put on shelves once you end inflation.''
Says Mr. Sachs: ''In Bolivia, the plan was attacked for having high social costs and that there would be hard times. It was called impossible. That's just like Poland now.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 1 about the economist Jeffrey Sachs misidentified the sponsor of his trips to Poland. It is the Stefan Batory Society.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Jeffrey Sachs, the Harvard economist, in the study at his home in Newton, Mass. (NYT/Rick Friedman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); TRENDS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); 

PERSON: SACHS, JEFFREY D (PROF); WAYNE, LESLIE



15 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: WEEK IN BUSINESS;
Sony Expands Into Hollywood

BYLINE: By STEVE DODSON

 BODY:
Sony is buying into Hollywood. Columbia Pictures accepted a $3.4 billion offer from the Japanese electronics giant. Columbia produces several successful television series but its movie division has lagged. The biggest attraction for Sony executives, led by the president, Norio Ohga, apparently was the 2,700 films in Columbia's library. The movies will provide the ''software'' for video devices that Sony makes, including its new Video Walkman. Sony was already a significant part of the American entertainment industry, having acquired CBS Records last year. Coca-Cola owns 49 percent of Columbia, and an analyst estimated that Coke's profit before tax would be $1.5 billion.
 
*
 A capital gains tax cut was approved by the House. The proposed reduction, from a top rate of 33 percent to 19.6 percent, would be in effect until the end of 1991. A tax break on profits from selling securities or real estate is a favorite idea of President Bush's. The proposal was called a gift to the wealthy by House Democratic leaders, but 64 Democrats joined the Republicans to approve the measure, 239 to 190. Senate passage, probably with some revisions, is thought likely. 
 
*
 Coors is buying Stroh Brewing in a $425 million deal. Stroh, which is family owned and based in Detroit, has about 10 percent of the American beer market, and Coors has about 9 percent. Together they would have a solid hold on third place, behind Miller, with 22 percent, and Anheuser-Busch, with about 43 percent.
Anheuser-Busch will pay $1.1 billion for four Sea World theme parks and other properties owned by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. Anheuser already owns Busch Garden parks in Florida and Virginia. Analysts had expected that Harcourt, the nation's second-largest publisher, would get about $1.5 billion for the properties. Harcourt shares fell sharply as investors interpreted the low price as a sign of trouble for Harcourt's efforts to cut its debt through asset sales.
 
*
 The leading indicators were up three-tenths of a percent in August, the second straight monthly advance for the index, which is intended to forecast the economy's direction. The rise in July had been one- tenth of a percent . . . Orders for durable goods climbed 3.8 percent in August, the strongest advance in eight months.
 
*
 Saks and Marshall Fields are for sale. B.A.T., the British conglomerate that owns the two department store chains, said it would sell them as part of a revamping intended to ward off the $21 billion hostile takeover bid mounted by Sir James Goldsmith. The managements of both chains are expected to be among those making offers.
 
*
 Paul A. Bilzerian was sentenced to four years in jail, the stiffest penalty handed out so far in the three-year- old Government crackdown on securities law violations. The Government said Mr. Bilzerian, former chairman of the Singer Company, had concealed his holdings in takeover targets and then sold at a huge profit.
 
*
 Braniff entered bankruptcy again. The nation's 15th-largest airline had sought bankruptcy protection in 1982 and did not resume operations until 1984. This time it ran into trouble trying to finance a costly expansion program in a weak ''junk bond'' market. Braniff said it would try to reorganize as a smaller carrier serving 11 cities, rather than 36.
 
*
 The dollar was hammered down by strong central bank intervention following a meeting of finance ministers in Washington. During the week the dollar lost about 4 percent of its value against both the West German mark and the Japanese yen. The credit markets were troubled by the dollar's move, and bond prices fell moderately. But stocks had small gains. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 11.21 points for the week, closing at 2,692.82. Strong worldwide demand for oil helped prices hold firm, even though OPEC failed to agree on limiting the output of individual members.
 
*
 I.B.M. lowered expectations about its third-quarter profit. The computer maker suggested to analysts that their quarterly estimates, which were running at $2.10 a share to $2.30, should be cut to $1.40 to $1.80. Manufacturing glitches are causing delays in new products, while anticipation of new products is causing sizable numbers of customers to lease equipment rather than buy, the company said . . . I.B.M. is joining Texas Instruments in a venture that will seek contracts to automate large factories.
 
*
 Miscellanea. The Citizens and Southern Corporation of Atlanta will combine with Sovran Financial of Virginia to form the nation's 11th- largest bank, in terms of deposits . . . Arthur Andersen and Price Waterhouse gave up on their attempt at a merger that would have created the world's largest accounting firm . . . Toys ''R'' Us said it plans to open stores in Japan.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Norio Ohga, 1976

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); KO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FILM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); APPROVALS (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); BEER & ALE (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); RETAILERS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (68%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); SENTENCING (62%); PUBLISHING (50%); JAIL SENTENCING (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



16 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2126 words

HEADLINE: Selling Yourself on Madison Ave.

BYLINE: By AIMEE L. STERN; Aimee L. Stern is a freelance writer based in Cambridge, Mass.

 BODY:
One day last March, Marc Eisenoff walked into the office of Ira Madris, deputy creative director at McCann-Erickson Worldwide advertising, to ask for a raise. The 39- year-old senior art director spotted one of the agency's executive recruiters. For a split second, he thought that might be standard procedure - but she wasn't smiling. He struggled with an overwhelming urge to turn and run. Then he was dismissed.
Lisa E. Levy, an art director at the Biederman Kelly & Shaffer agency met a similar fate last January, on Friday the 13th no less. Ms. Levy, who is 33, said she had had a false sense of security: She had been at Biederman five and a half years and recently they had nearly doubled her salary.
But on the 13th, she heard that Barry Biederman, the chief executive, was frantically searching for her. ''He looked kind of queer,'' she said. ''The minute he started talking I knew something was up. My co-workers thought I was kidding. I had to convince them I'd just been fired.'' 
 
*
 These two stories mirror those of scores of advertising executives who spent the summer of 1989 pounding the pavement of Madison Avenue. Since 1985, ad agencies have dismissed a steady stream of employees. In the last three years it is estimated that 4,000 to 5,000 ad executives in New York have lost their jobs, about one in six.
The industry was one of the first to feel the pinch of recession in the mid-80's, as corporations started cutting costs. Its problems were compounded by the wave of corporate mergers and buyouts. As the newly merged and often highly leveraged companies streamlined, advertising bugets again were often the first casualties. And with the 1987 stock market crash, recovery became even more difficult.
And the advertising industry itself was rocked by mergers and acquisitions, as some of its best-known names joined forces to form bigger and bigger agencies. New York agencies have also been hurt by increased competition with new, smaller regional agencies, which have lured clients away with promises of personalized service and fresh creative work.
Both McCann-Erickson and Biederman lost large accounts earlier this year and slashed expenses. In the ad business, 80 percent of overhead walks out the door every night, so the first cuts are usually of staff. When the industry was healthy, jobs were created when an agency won an account. Now, an agency is more likely to overtax employees or use freelancers during busy periods.
Those hardest hit, say executive recruiters, have been mid-level executives like Mr. Eisenoff, who has been seeking an annual salary of $70,000 to $100,000, and Ms. Levy, who asks for $50,000 to $65,000.
And despite widespread recognition of the slump, unemployment still carries a stigma. As the executive recruiter Jerry Fields, of Jerry Fields Associates, put it, ''In this business you're only as good as you're last campaign.''
With such warnings in mind, Mr. Eisenoff and Ms. Levy set out to find jobs. They agreed to take notes and meet periodically with this reporter. This is an account of their summer.
 
JUNE
 Mr. Eisenoff has retrieved his portfolio from the Ogilvy Group, where it had been languishing since early May. At first, Ogilvy's creative recruiter had seemed encouraging, holding out the promise of an art director's slot on the American Express Corporation account. But when he called back, she rankled him with the news that they had just instituted a hiring freeze.
But his strategy is to keep his portfolio, or ''book,'' from languishing over the weekend. He has three identical portfolios. Each costs about $500 to make and contains laminated advertisements he has done for companies like Shearson Lehman Hutton, A.T.&T., T.W.A. and Ciba-Geigy. He uses a diverse mix of ads, so he can send out the book for any position.
The next step is to get his book to another agency. He keeps a file of about 100 index cards with names of his contacts. This time he picks card No. 4: Frank Ginsberg, president of Avrett Free & Ginsberg Inc.
Maybe this was his lucky card. Mr. Ginsberg said an art director had just quit that morning. ''Where are you?'' he asked. ''Where's your book, and how fast can you get here?'' Fortunately, Mr. Eisenoff said, he was dressed appropriately for an impromptu interview: black shirt, shoes and slacks, and one silver earring. Although account executives wear suits and ties, the ''creatives'' are more casual, he explained, and Avrett is known as a ''hip agency.''
Mr. Eisenoff raced across Manhattan and got there in time to meet Mr. Ginsberg, chat, even compare suntans. He may have look poised, he said, but was actually scouring the room for hints of who the agency handles. He was unprepared, he said, and hates that feeling. Later, the associate creative director, Philip Davidson, joined them. The dynamics of such a meeting are crucial because copywriters and art directors work in tandem, like two comedians doing a routine. Halfway through the hour conversation, Mr. Davidson took a phone call, then, grinning, said: ''I hear you do magic. Could you do some for me?''
A good sign: They checked up on him. He has done magic tricks since childhood and tries to interject them at interviews to distinguish himself from other candidates. This time, Mr. Davidson was duly impressed as a five-dollar bill turned into a one-dollar bill. ''You'll have to show me more sometime,'' he said. Then they discussed salary, marital status and Mr. Eisenoff's commute from Long Island, all indicators that they were seriously interested. He left confident he would get the job.
 
*
 Like Mr. Eisenoff, Ms. Levy has been experiencing the mood swings of job-hunting. In April she had met with Jay Schulberg, the creative director of Bozell Inc. She thought the interview had been ''great''; his secretary had even called to arrange another, but then canceled it at the last minute. Now a letter has arrived: ''Sorry for the runaround. We can't have you join us now but maybe somewhere down the road . . . wish you all the best. . . . you are terrific.''
''We were very similar,'' she said. ''He really cared about the work. He wasn't an egomaniac and I was impressed by that.''
But there was good news too. She landed a freelance job at Grey Entertainment & Media. It may be temporary, but it means income and contacts that could lead to a permanent job. And when she approaches other employers, she will no longer bear the stigma of unemployment.
 
*
 After 10 days, Mr. Eisenoff could no long stand the suspense and decided to call Mr. Ginsberg again. Of course getting an agency chief on the phone can require extreme patience. When he doesn't want to leave several messages - and look like a pest - Mr. Eisenoff just keeps calling and hangs up on the secretary until by chance the right person answers.
This time he reached Mr. Davidson, who had hired an art director he had worked with before.
To compound his disappointment, an interview with Richard Levenson, chief creative officer of D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles in New York, has been canceled for the third time. At first, it had looked promising. Mr. Eisenoff had run into a former colleague, John Nieman, in the lobby of McCann Erickson. Mr. Nieman said he was quitting McCann to join D'Arcy as chief creative officer of the domestic division and told Mr. Eisenoff to call Mr. Levenson and use his name. D'Arcy had won new business from Burger King and the Maxwell House division of General Foods, and Adweek reported that the agency was looking for 70 people.
Mr. Eisenoff called a friend at D'Arcy and discovered that they actually planned to hire just a few junior employees.
 
*
 Rather than relying just on the usual strategies of calling contacts and combing the classified ads, Ms. Levy believes in being as creative as possible when it comes to self-promotion, and often it has paid off. She has been named a runner-up in an amateur photography contest sponsored by Absolut Vodka. ''This could be a real break for me,'' she said. In 1987, she won $83,000 in an advertising contest for Hebrew National for an ad that pictured a slender, leotard-clad woman, with the headline, ''There's more fat on her than on our salami.'' And she earned an appearance on the stupid pet tricks contest of ''The David Letterman Show'' by getting her hamster, Bitey, inside a plastic ball and coaxing him down a makeshift bowling alley.
For the Absolut contest, she took fishing line and hung a vodka bottle in an instant photo booth to make it look as if it were photographing itself. The contest was judged by Absolut's agency, TBWA Inc, and American Photographer magazine published the winning entries.
While discussing the contest with a friend who is a TBWA copywriter, she learned of an opening there and a few days later dropped off her book. At a cocktail party that night, someone else mentioned the TBWA job, she said, taken aback by how small the New York ad business really is.
 
JULY
 For Mr. Eisenoff, the Fourth of July weekend brought no respite from job hunting. An associate creative director at Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising Worldwide promised him a freelance job but insisted that he call on Saturday. So he left his wife and 8-year-old son camped at a remote Long Island beach, hitchhiked to a pay phone, stood in a sweltering parking lot, jotting down notes on a scrap of paper, and made his call.
Then, Ralph Lederman, creative director of Towne, Silverstein, Rotter Inc., a 35-person shop in Greenwich Village, left four urgent messages for him. He needed a freelancer right away. Mr. Eisenoff, who worked with Mr. Lederman 17 years ago at his first job in advertising, was elated. It was his first offer for full-time freelance work.
After a week, Mr. Lederman broached the idea of hiring him permanently, and then left for the West Coast, where a TV commercial was being shot.
 
*
 Ms. Levy said her Aunt Henrietta keeps asking why she doesn't switch to another field. Most of her relatives are government workers and simply do not understand why anyone would work in a business where employment is so tenuous.
Headhunters have sent her two books to agencies, but so far there have been no replies. She is still freelancing at Grey Entertainment and reasonably happy there, she said. She bumped into a copywriter she knows, who told her she's ''lucky to be working.''
 
AUGUST
 Mr. Lederman is still on the Coast and Mr. Eisenoff is still looking for a job. ''I'm keeping everything alive until I get my first paycheck,'' he said, ''but I have slacked off a little.'' He believes his every move is part of the application process: he arrives early, leaves late and is excruciatingly polite.
 
*
 Ms. Levy called Peter Hoffman, a group head at Ally & Gargano/MCA Advertising to say, ''Hi, it's lunch time; it's Monday; can I come by?'' The call, she explained, was not really so casual. She had called before about a job opening and he had told her to just ''stop by'' some time. The job had been filled, but he was still interested in meeting her.
She wore her usual interview outfit, carefully planned, she said, to convey just the right image. It is a peach-colored linen dress, with jewelry she made herself, including a necklace of cut-up American Express gold cards and tie-dyed earrings.
She brought props, like a Stealth bomber T-shirt she designed and a copy of American Photographer with her award-winning photograph. ''I had all the stuff in my purse,'' she said, ''and I pulled it out and said, 'Look, see I am creative, really. I felt I made an impression. I'm good with people, and interviews usually help me. In the end, he said something like 'Let's keep in touch.' ''
 
*
 Mr. Lederman returned, looked at Mr. Eisenoff's commercials on Aug. 22 and that day offered him a position as a senior art director, and within the salary range he had been seeking. He was thrilled but anxious. ''I can't explain it,'' he said. ''Its like dating someone. It may feel right but sometimes you have to stop and think about it for a moment before you accept.'' After stalling for a day to see what might happen with J. Walter Thompson, he accepted.
 
SEPTEMBER
 Ms. Levy has begun a freelance job in the sales promotion division of Scali McCabe Sloves and she, too, is earning within the range she had sought. After her first day, she went to the video store and rented ''The Agony and the Ecstasy.''
''It reminded me of working in advertising,'' she said. ''The Pope is like the client and Michelangelo is the creative genius. They haggle over price. The Pope wants him to change things. But in the end Michelangelo has created a masterpiece and the Pope respects his work.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of Marc Eisenoff (NYT/Sara Krulwich); Lisa E. Levy, shown at home (NYT/Peter Freed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BIEDERMAN KELLY KRIMSTEIN & PARTNERS ADVERTISING INC (84%); MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; LAYOFFS (LABOR); SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); MERGERS (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (68%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (64%); 

PERSON: LEVY, LISA E; EISENOFF, MARC; STERN, AIMEE L



17 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: TRADING WITH JAPAN;
Something Basic Is Wrong in America

BYLINE: By AKIO MORITA; Akio Morita is chairman of the Sony Coporation.

 BODY:
A serious look at the composition of the United States-Japan bilateral trade imbalance shows that the United States is becoming highly dependent on Japanese high-tech industrial products.
From 1982 to 1988, the volume of American imports of consumer durable goods from Japan fell 34 percent. This decrease is largely offset, however, by an increase in American imports of capital goods, like high-tech devices, components and equipment American industry needs to make its own products. Imports of machinery over all increased 82 percent. This is one reason why the total United States-Japan trade imbalance does not appear to improve. 
It is, of course, an indication of the integration of the United States and Japanese economies that for many products design and final assembly are done in the United States while manufacturing is carried out in Japan or elsewhere. But America's loss of competitiveness in so many areas of high-tech manufacturing suggests that there is something fundamentally amiss in American industry. If the United States loses too much of its high-tech manufacturing base, it also loses its ability to be a technology leader in the coming century.
This is something Americans should be concerned about. But it is also a global concern that American industry regain its competitiveness.
The real key to competitiveness lies not in trade policy and protection of high-tech industries, but in increased investment, strengthened research and development and work-force development. Basic education and on-the-job training need to be improved.
My most basic message is that the United States Government and American companies should shift their time horizons. Investments are needed today that will pay dividends in 10, 20 or 30 years. The short-term orientation of corporate management in the United States encourages the neglect of long-term investment vital to industry, depriving it of the ability to create attractive products. Both Senator Lloyd Bentsen and Richard G. Darman, director of the Office of Management and Budget, have recently made similar points.
Mr. Darman courageously used the phrase ''now-now-ism'' to accurately describe the American obsession with getting quick results at the expense of long-term considerations.
Seeking hasty results is especially dangerous in manufacturing industries, where it takes 10 years to develop a new technology, 10 more to apply it to a new product, and maybe another 10 to turn that product into a profitable business. Patience, consistency and continuity are required. Yet the financial community seems to concentrate on 10-minute time frames.
In the financial sector, now-now-ism causes currency fluctuations that undermine the future-oriented manufacturing industries and weaken the global economy. Because manufacturing is fundamental to a healthy economy, the most important role of the financial community should be to provide manufacturers with the best economic atmosphere.
There are two other challenges to be considered with regard to international competitiveness and the trade imbalance. First, successful international companies must emphasize localization and globalization of business operation.
Localization is the first important step for a global enterprise. That is why I established the Sony Corporation of America in 1960 with local management and with an ongoing commitment to manufacturing, research and development, and engineering activities in the United States.
Through localization we can get the best talent and performance available in each location. If we accomplish this locally, we can achieve the full potential of our global work force. But we must also globalize operations, conducting our worldwide operations with a common business philosophy. One reflection of this global-localization at Sony is that we have named an American and a Swiss national to our board of directors.
The second challenge is one faced collectively by all industrial nations. It is obvious that we need larger markets for the future development of the global economy.
To this end, I agree with Prime Minister Lee of Singapore. The countries of Southeast Asia must become consumer societies, and Japan too must exercise a powerful import pull. Then America, Europe and Asia - including Japan - could be three important regions contributing to worldwide economic development.
People in business face many challenges. If we cannot offer attractive products that satisfy customers, and cannot afford long-term investment, it will be difficult to succeed. But no nation, and no company, can by itself address the compelex issues of competitiveness, trade imbalances and long-term commitment to manufacturing that lie at the heart of commerce. On the business map there can be no boundaries.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Akio Morita

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS DURABLE GOODS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BUDGETS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (50%); 

PERSON: MORITA, AKIO



18 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: TRADING WITH JAPAN;
Japan's Market Is Closed Drum Tight

BYLINE: by EDWARD L. HENNESSY JR.; Edward L. Hennessy Jr. is chairman and chief executive of Allied-Signal Inc.

 BODY:
Just over a decade ago, the company I work for decided to enter the Japanese market with a high-tech amorphous metal alloy we had developed in our New Jersey laboratories. Determined to avoid the pitfalls that had doomed the efforts of so many other foreign companies on Japanese soil, we named a Japanese-born and educated executive who worked for Allied-Signal Inc. in the United States to head the effort in Tokyo. Fluent in the language and schooled in the nuances of doing business in Japan, he seemed an excellent choice to help us establish a Japanese beachhead. He also had the advantage of a joint venture with a Japanese business group, and a long-term commitment from Allied-Signal.
Our man in Japan recently returned home - frustrated and empty-handed - after running headlong into one roadblock after another. We are determined to keep at it, and recently managed to obtain a Japanese patent that we filed 12 years ago. But we are repeatedly cautioned by Japanese insiders that our aggressive efforts to compete are disrupting the harmony of their markets. 
There is no denying that Japan is a virtually impenetrable market for many foreign businesses today. My company is certainly not the first - nor the last - to learn this firsthand. As an American business executive, however, my intent is not to condemn the Japanese, nor tell them how to manage their country. Instead, I feel we must make a genuine effort to understand the Japanese way of doing business as a crucial step toward correcting our trade imbalances.
Clearly, we can't delude ourselves into thinking that Japan plays by the same economic rules and imperatives as the rest of the world. In the course of achieving its astounding postwar success, Japan developed its own distinctive views of competition, open markets and free trade. Indeed, national economic development and security are placed well ahead of global interests. As Jacques Delors, president of the European Commission, noted recently, the very idea of trade reciprocity simply is not understood by Japanese companies.
The current $52 billion trade imbalance between the United States and Japan confirms what many Americans have suspected about Japanese trade practices. That deficit is barely down at all from when the dollar was strong, while over the same period the American trade deficit with Europe was cut in half. A recent Business Week/Harris poll showed that by a 3-to-1 margin, respondents felt that Japan's economic challenge posed a greater threat to America's future than the Soviet military. It appears that mutual suspicion is fast becoming an unfortunate fact of life between our two countries.
The severity of this country's trade gap certainly cannot be ignored or minimized. We should be working hard to erase it by making low-cost, high-quality products that the world needs, and is willing to buy. All too often, the United States has failed to turn its scientific excellence into marketplace winners fast enough and convincingly enough. We have lagged seriously behind not only Japan, but other countries as well.
A growing number of American companies are facing up to the problem. They are forming teams of marketing, manufacturing and research and development people at a project's earliest stages. Such collaborative efforts get products into the market much faster.
American companies are also awakening to the fact that to be competitive in the 1990's, they must embrace the long view. That is, they must respond to the need for long-term investment in research and development and for risk-taking strategies that position their companies in new markets and technologies - and not be overwhelmed by the cry from the financial community for short-term profits and dividends.
As American companies address their needs at home, however, so must the Japanese face the fact that they are widely perceived throughout the world as a protectionist nation. This perception - whether based on fact or misunderstanding - and the resentment it spawns, harms the global marketplace.
But recriminations and external sanctions are not the way to go. Change must be internal: Japanese executives and policy makers must recognize and accept the fact that the world needs to do business with them.
A book published earlier this year in Tokyo, and co-authored by Sony's chairman, Akio Morita, is entitled, ''The Japan That Can't Say No.'' Instead of a Japan that can say no in its relations with its trading partners, I believe the world urgently needs a Japan that can say yes - yes to open markets, to a mutuality of benefits, and to greater understanding and cooperation among nations.
The global economy is fast unfolding, creating opportunities for countries and citizens on every continent. But without the active support of all the free market nations, that opportunity could be lost.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Edward L. Hennessy (Camera Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED-SIGNAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); 

PERSON: HENNESSY, EDWARD L JR



19 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: DEALING WITH GLOBAL WARMING;
Power From Space Is Pollution Free

BYLINE: By PETER E. GLASER; Peter E. Glaser is vice president of space operations for Arthur D. Little Inc. He has served on the NASA Task Force on Space Goals and was a member of NASA's Advisory Council for the ''Lunar Energy Enterprise Case Study.''

 BODY:
Most of the discussion about preserving the ecology of our planet has focused on Earth-based solutions. These have been aimed at protecting the environment and providing energy to meet the demands of the planet's expanding population. In the near- to mid-term, these are important and valuable steps. But in the long term, a key to humanity's continued evolution will be the penetration of space and the economic and scientific exploitation of the solar system's inexhaustible resources and unique physical characteristics.
A few months ago, President Bush outlined some challenging steps toward this goal. His proposal, made on the 20th anniversary of the first lunar landing, called for the establishment of a base on the moon to be followed by a manned mission to Mars. But unlike President John F. Kennedy's earlier proposal to go to the moon, the Bush proposal contained no timetable and no guidelines for financing. He left those issues to the National Space Council, headed by Vice President Quayle. 
Pursuing space missions is important, but not just for economic and scientific reasons. It is also important as a means to meet the future energy needs of this planet without creating further ecological deterioration.
During the first two decades of the space age, the exploration and uses of space were conducted primarily by the United States and the Soviet Union. Now other countries have begun making long-range, multibillion-dollar plans for space exploration and exploitation. These nations, in many instances, wish to participate in international space missions and to share both in the gains and the costs.
But the real key to entering space is the development of an infrastructure that can be expanded signficantly over an extended period. This infrastructure of permanently manned space stations and orbiting industrial parks will be able to support a broad spectrum of scientific investigations, technology development and commercial ventures. A prerequisite for space-based infrastructure will not only be the transportation of material and people, but also the availability of adequate electrical power.
The Soviet Union and Japan already have ambitious plans for generating power in space, at first for use in orbit and subsequently for use on earth. Plans for a long-term Soviet space power development program were presented at the International Astronautical Federation Congress in 1985 and were followed by statements from several leading Soviet space technologists. A recent article in a Soviet scientific journal about that nation's space program written by V.S. Aveyevsky, a Russian expert on manufacturing in space and a winner of the Lenin Prize, stated that ''the idea of satellite electric power stations generating energy for consumers in space and on the ground has grown into one of the most fundamental space research programs.''
Japan's Space Activities Commission recommended in 1987 that Japan should endeavor to become an important participant in space activities by the beginning of the 21st century. The commission stated that to conduct space activities on a large scale, Japan should promote research and development into the efficient utilization of solar energy for the generation of electricity in space.
The space power systems capable of capturing and converting solar energy and then beaming that energy from orbit to a receiving site in space or on earth were studied by the Department of Energy and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the late 1970's and early 1980's. At the time, these power systems were judged to be too expensive because of the high cost of transporting propellants, materials and space structures into orbit from earth.
Since Mr. Bush's recent speech, there appears to be an opportunity for the United States, and other nations, to develop a lunar base and the lunar resources necessary for large-scale projects like space-based power generating systems. The economic justification for using lunar resources instead of earth resources includes a significant reduction in transportation costs from the moon into an earth orbit, compared with launchings into orbit directly from the earth. Launching materials into an earth orbit from the moon would also alleviate the environmental impacts that would result from multiple earth launchings. THE development of space-based power systems will extend well into the next century. New systems will be needed to supply the power needs of space shuttles, free-flying platforms and space stations in high-earth orbits, and lunar bases. Development of space-based power sources, can - and should - begin with a modest test project to demonstrate the feasibility of new solar energy technologies to collect and beam power between objects in space and to the earth.
A cooperative international test project for space-based power systems provides a unique opportunity to advance this technology. Such a test project could lead to further cooperative efforts among nations that expect to benefit from space-generated power. International participation could also make it easier to obtain agreements on the use of orbits and the portions of the electromagnetic spectrum necessary to transmit energy to earth from space. A test program could also lead to an international consensus on the future course of space power development.
Based on activities already under way in several nations, a power generating program for space could form the basis for the development of space-based industries and support structures. An industrial infrastructure in space could help humanity meet its future energy needs without exacerbating the ecological deterioration resulting from global warming.
The significance of an international test project has been recognized and recommended as part of the activities for the International Space Year in 1992. It is now time for industry in the United States, in cooperation with NASA, to take the initiative and join with other nations in this test project. The rewards for joining in this project could be as vast as space itself and ultimately could conserve the resources and ecology of the earth.

GRAPHIC: Drawing of the Solar Max satellite

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

STATE: EARTH (94%); MARS (79%); 

SUBJECT: ASTRONAUTICS; ENERGY AND POWER; ENVIRONMENT SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); SPACE INDUSTRY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); SPACECRAFT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (68%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); SPACE STATIONS (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); 

PERSON: GLASER, PETER E JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 



20 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEW IN PORK;
Pork That is Pinker and Purer Appeals to the Japanese

BYLINE: By DAMON WRIGHT

 BODY:
The Japanese don't like the pale, watery pink color Americans seem to prefer in pork. They like their meat to be deeper in color.
This may seem like a bit of trivia, but to American pork producers, it is of the utmost significance. Achieving a redder meat requires them to tinker with their standard chilling and packing techniques, which determine color. 
Considering such things as the growth of the Japanese's population and economy and its healthy appetite for pork, American hog producers view it as the export market with the greatest potential. Japan currently imports about 11.5 billion pounds, or 25 percent of the nearly 46 billion pounds of pork, measured by carcass weight, it consumes annually.
In an attempt to capture more market, Americans are doing everything in their power to appeal to Japanese tastes. Last year, American pig producers shipped less than 1 percent of their production to Japan, or 88 million pounds. That is a 100 percent increase over the year before. This year, they expect to export 1.1 billion pounds to the country, pushing up their share to about 10 percent of Japanese imports.
Most of America's gains have come at the expense of Taiwan, the major exporter of pork to Japan, whose share of the import market fell to about 60 percent in 1988. Taiwan lost position when it was unable to respond as quickly as the United States to demands by Japan for pork with lower levels of chemical residue. When Japan discovered in March 1988 that pork from both the United States and Taiwan contained sulfamethazine residues that exceeded the established tolerance level, it temporarily banned shipments from both countries until they tightened their inspection procedures. Sulfamethazine is an antibiotic feed additive used to keep hogs healthier, helping them reach the market more quickly.
While Taiwan was out of the Japanese market until late last fall, the United States was able to resume shipping almost immediately and take advantage of its rival's hiatus.
American producers had taken the offensive even before Taiwan's troubles. In an attempt to take advantage of the weak dollar, the Pork Council in October 1987 began an ''export initiative'' that includes trade missions to Japan to promote American pork directly to the country's consumers and grocers. Certain staff members of the United States Meat Export Federation, one of the primary promoters of American meats abroad, began to plan their lives around ''meat month'' in Japan.

GRAPHIC: Photo of a Chinese hog (NYT/Craig Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); TAIWAN (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEAT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PIGS EXPORT TRADE (90%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MEATS (89%); PORK (89%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); LIVESTOCK FEED (75%); EXPORT PROMOTION (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (50%); 

PERSON: WRIGHT, DAMON



21 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEW IN PORK;
A Drive to Improve Products and Compete With the Price of Chicken

BYLINE: By DAMON WRIGHT

 BODY:
Three developments could profoundly reduce production costs and, in turn, consumer prices for pork:
* Introducing fecund Chinese pigs into this country's hog population could eventually increase litter sizes.
* The impending commercial availability of a breakthrough growth enhancer - porcine somatotropin - could speed the growth of individual hogs by up to 11 percent.
* And a new breeding philosophy called the all-in/all-out method could help move animals to market faster.
But these techniques may not yield widespread benefits any time soon because of Government precautions, an increasingly activist public and the limited means and entrenched attitudes of producers. 
It took 11 years of negotiations with the Chinese Government before Dr. Roger J. Gerrits, national program leader for animal production at the Agriculture Department's Agricultural Research Service, landed 140 rather odd-looking Chinese pigs on American soil this spring. And it will be at least five years more before these pigs are available for commercial breeding, as researchers at Iowa State University and the University of Illinois study the ramifications of introducing the new breeds into the general population.
American breeders have looked longingly at Chinese pigs because their litters are twice as big as the eight-piglet average of American breeds. Through either cross-breeding or genetic engineering, scientists hope to use the genes of the Chinese pigs to raise the average American litters by one or two piglets. Without the Chinese genes, it would take 25 generations of genetic selection to increase their size, Dr. Gerrits said.
While the hormone porcine somatotropin could be on the market in the early 1990's, the public could impede its widespread use. Witness the trouble the dairy industry experienced with bovine somatotropin. The drug has so far been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for only selected use. Yet in August, five major supermarket chains refused to carry milk from cows treated with the drug because of pressure from consumer groups.
The European Community has banned meat raised with any hormones. And some American hog producers fear that whence goes Europe, goes Japan, their biggest customer for pork.
Of the five companies preparing porcine somatotropin for market, four - Pitman-Moore, Upjohn, Monsanto and Smith Kline Beecham - have made a preemptive public relations bid. In late 1988, they formed a consortium to promote the safety of the drug, a point upon which Federal regulators seem to concur.
To create commercial quantities, the drug is cultured in the lab. And critics claim that the long-term effects of the slight molecular changes that result are unclear. What's more, production increases could lead to lower prices that would endanger small producers' already fragile profit margins and possibly drive them out of business, said John C. Stauber, an organizer for the Foundation on Economic Trends, a Washington-based group that studies the social and economic implications of agricultural biotechnology.
The all-in/all-out breeding method isn't controversial, but it requires farmers to completely reconfigure their breeding compounds - not to mention their way of thinking. That may prevent it from catching on.
Under customary rearing methods, pigs of all ages live together until each reaches a marketable weight of about 230 pounds. Piglets virtually enter the world at one end of the barn and exit for slaughter at the other. The process usually takes 205 days because piglets often pick up diseases from older hogs, wasting their feed to restore their health rather than to gain weight.
By protecting piglets from germs, the all-in/all-out method could trim 41 days off the process. Piglets born within the same week are housed separately until slaughter, according to Dr. L. Kirk Clark, president of the American Association of Swine Practitioners. The trouble is, farmers need to build several new pens. ''We've built all these capital structures based on poor health control methods,'' said Dr. Steve Henry, a veterinarian in Abilene, Kan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (52%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (52%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: MEAT; PRICES; PIGS GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); PORK (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (89%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (88%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (88%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%); AGRICULTURE (88%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (78%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); POULTRY (78%); AGRONOMY (76%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (74%); TRENDS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (70%); DRUG SAFETY (68%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: WRIGHT, DAMON



22 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 29, Column 1; Careers Supplement

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: The Airlines Industry Is a High Flyer

BYLINE: BY ERIC WEINER

 BODY:
When America West Airlines, a midsize carrier based in Phoenix, sent recruiters to schools that train mechanics, it often ran into a problem. ''An outfit like Delta Airlines would come in a day ahead of us and hire the entire class,'' said Leroy Paulson, vice president for technical services.
America West has since arranged a program with a community college in Phoenix - alternating work on the job with study on campus - to help guarantee a supply of mechanics. ''As fast as they can advance, we promote them to the higher positions,'' Mr. Paulson said.
Fueled by a growing demand for air travel, the airline industry is rapidly expanding its fleets and hiring thousands more employees than in years past. In particular demand are pilots, flight attendants and mechanics. 
In fact, during the next decade prospects for all airline jobs are bright, industry experts say. ''It's boom time,'' said David A. Swierenga, assistant vice president for industry data at the Air Transport Association, a trade group based in Washington. ''The industry has been growing across the board.'' Today the airlines employ 480,000 workers, a 46 percent increase over 1978, Mr. Swierenga said.
And despite the irregular work hours and grueling itineraries that may include seven cities in one day, airline jobs are still considered ''glamour careers.'' The most prized perquisite is unlimited free air travel for all full-time employees, and often their families.
But the airline industry is also among the most vulnerable to an economic downturn. As recently as 1983 the airlines furloughed thousands of employees. Still, analysts say that the industry, which has consolidated into fewer carriers in recent years, is now better equipped to weather a recession. During the next recession, Mr. Swierenga said, ''We hope that we can keep the work force we have without laying anyone off.''
The demand for air travel has grown at a prodigious rate. In 1978 the airlines carried 250 million passengers; last year they carried nearly double that number, 450 million. During the next decade, the number of passengers is expected to grow at about 5 percent annually for domestic flights and 10 percent for international flights.
Perhaps the skills most in demand are those of the airplane mechanic, of which there are about 60,000 currently employed by airlines. As new Federal rules requiring extensive modifications to older jets take effect, the need for skilled mechanics has become more acute. ''The older the planes get, the more work they'll need,'' said James Conley, a spokesman for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents most mechanics.
A recent survey by the Air Transport Association found 4,000 vacancies for mechanics among the nation's 21 largest carriers. ''There's a fairly serious shortage of qualified mechanics,'' said Louis Smith, president of the Future Aviation Professionals of America, a career-consulting firm in Atlanta. He forecasts openings for 50,000 mechanics in the next 10 years.
In particular demand are mechanics skilled in sheet metal, who repair cracks in aging planes, and those who work on cockpit electronics. In the next few years, the airlines will be required to install collision-avoidance and weather-detection devices on their fleets, which will require thousands of work hours.
The starting salary for mechanics, who must attend mechanics' school for two years, is about $27,000 annually, with top pay as high as $52,000. Because of the growing shortage, salaries have climbed about 10 percent in the last year.
Although the major airlines do most of their own repairs, some contract their work to the approximately 20 independent shops that can handle big jetliners. It's at these schools - and others that repair smaller planes -where the shortage is most severe. The annual attrition rate at these shops is as high as 50 percent, as workers move on to higher-paying airline jobs.
''We're barely able to maintain our work force,'' said William Thomas, president of Elsinore Aerospace, which owns a repair shop in Waco, Tex.
Some of the smaller shops that work on private planes are turning away customers because of the shortage. ''We're desperately advertising and we can't get people with two or three years' experience,'' said Frank Stephenson, president of Skytech, a repair shop in Baltimore.
Several airlines besides America West have formed alliances with colleges to help replenish the supply. American Airlines, the nation's largest, is considering opening a school in Chicago that would train 500 to 600 mechanics a year, said James Brown, a company spokesman.
Nearly as much in demand are airline pilots. The nation's airlines are rapidly expanding their fleets, with 1,500 airplanes on order. In addition 16,000 pilots, many of them trained during the Korean War, are expected to retire in the next decade. As a result, the airlines hired a record 10,000 pilots in the last year, according to the Future Aviation Professionals of America. The airlines have lowered some of their ''soft'' requirements for pilots. Until recently they hired only pilots under the age of 30 who had 20/20 vision and were at least 5 feet 6 inches tall. Today, pilots need not meet those criteria.
But experience levels remain high. Last year, pilots hired by the major airlines had an average of well over 3,000 hours of flight time. ''Airlines are still looking for quality-trained pilots,'' said Gennie Hall, manager of pilot development at Trans World Airlines. That airline, like several others, has opened a training school for pilots.
One reason is that the traditional source of pilots, the armed services, has begun to dry up. The Air Force and Navy are offering their pilots attractive bonuses to retain them, so today the airlines hire more pilots with a civilian background.
Most of the current crop of pilots start by learning to fly small planes and then ''building time,'' or logging flight hours as an instructor. The next step is usually a job with a smaller commuter airline. At some of these airlines, traditionally a steppingstone to a job with a major airline, annual turnover can be as high as 100 percent.
Salaries for pilots vary widely. A senior captain at Delta earns $166,000 a year, among the highest in the industry, while a captain at Continental Airlines earns $102,000. Starting salaries as a flight engineer, which is the job most airline pilots begin by filling, are about $20,000. Several years ago the industry adopted ''B scales,'' in which newly hired employees, even if they have equivalent experience, are paid at lower rates than veterans of the airline. At most airlines, the pay scales merge after five years. One result of the frenzied pilot hiring is quicker promotions. Pilots are currently promoted to captain, the highest rank, within 10 years at some airlines, while five years ago, the rule was that such rank would take 15 or 20 years to attain.
Demand for flight attendants is also high. Generally, the airlines hire two attendants for every one pilot hired. In the last two months alone, the nation's airlines hired 17,000 attendants. Their average starting pay is $15,000 annually, rising to a top of $39,000. Mainly because of the lower salaries and tiring working conditions, turnover is high.
Job prospects for computer reservation agents, gate agents and baggage handlers are also bright. As of last year the airlines employed 212,000 such workers, compared with 96,000 10 years ago. The jobs pay considerably lower than those for mechanics and even flight attendants, starting as low as $5 an hour.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Patrick Porter, a mechanic, at America West's hangar in Phoenix (pg. 1); Leroy Paulson, an America West Airlines vice president (NYT/Tim Koors) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (84%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (55%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PILOTS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS AIRLINES (95%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: WEINER, ERIC



23 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 32, Column 1; Careers Supplement

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Stagflation for Female Engineers

BYLINE: BY JOHN ARUNDEL

 BODY:
When Andrea Robertson began studying electrical engineering five years ago at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, she was usually the only woman in the lecture halls.
As she prepares to graduate, few things have changed. ''I still have classes where I'm not only the only woman but I'm the only black,'' said Miss Robertson, 21, a National Merit Scholar whose father, a safety engineer, was her role model. ''But that's an incentive to do well so that others can take my place.'' 
Miss Robertson's optimism is rare. Among America's 2.4 million working engineers only 4 percent are women. And while the percentage of undergraduate women in the nation's 281 engineering schools is four times that, at 16 percent, and the number of women entering those schools has increased 12 percent since 1973, figures from the National Science Foundation show a steady decline since the early 1980's.
''Women traditionally haven't been attracted to engineering,'' said Sue Kemnitzer, executive director of the Congressional Task Force on Women, Minorities and the Handicapped in Science and Technology.
Like other traditions, this one is proving difficult to break.
''We shortchange them by not setting high expectations for them in the workplace and by throwing up barriers in promotion and progression,'' Ms. Kemnitzer said. Upon graduating, some women engineers earn better starting pay than their male classmates but end up losing the salary competition several years later. ''The gap between men's and women's salaries widens each year,'' said Ms. Kemnitzer. ''This must have some negative feedback for women in school who are planning their own careers.''
While about 95 percent of the women who graduate with degrees in engineering choose to stay in that field, a growing number have been discouraged and have instead chosen to pursue careers in business, banking and the law.
The outlook is often just as bleak for promotions. ''There is a wide feeling that a male and a female's career will parallel for three or four years,'' said B. J. Harrod, acting executive director of the Society of Women Engineers, a New York-based organization with 14,500 members. ''But then the woman will find a glass ceiling in which her progress is stifled while the man's career continues to grow.''
Some women, however, do not find this to be the case. ''I probably was promoted a little faster than others,'' said Deborah Bales, 36, the manager of industrial engineering at Disneyland and president of the Southern California branch of the Society of Women Engineers. ''I was the first female engineer at Disneyland and while they were cautious at first, I personally have not run into much resistance to my being a woman in this position.''
Because only 3 percent of the nation's engineering faculty members are women, many say that female students lack role models. ''One problem women share with minorities is there are so few role models,'' said Ronnie Denes, vice president of the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, a private group based in Washington, D.C.
Miss Robertson at SUNY and a generation of other female engineering students hope to fill this leadership gap. As a volunteer tutor at junior high schools on Long Island, she is working to dispel a myth among teen-agers that one must be male to be an engineer.
''There's an image problem that starts on the high school level,'' said Christine Shoemaker, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Cornell University. ''To study engineering means you have to commit yourself to the career at a very young age. Whereas men are usually ready to make that commitment early on, many girls are not.'' Congress is currently considering a bill proposed by Senator John Glenn, Democrat of Ohio, and Representative Doug Walgren, Democrat of Pennsylvania, that would provide Federal funds for two engineering scholarships for every Congressional district. The two-year, $10,000 awards would be given each year to 876 sophomore engineers, one man and one woman, based on academic achievement.
 
An interim report, ''Changing
America: The New Face of Science and Engineering,'' released last year by Ms. Kemnitzer's task force, predicted dire economic consequences for the U.S. economy if engineering schools failed to attract the growing ranks of women and minorities joining the work force. ''With foreign competition gobbling up the high-tech markets we can't afford to waste any talent,'' Ms. Denes said.
Among the report's findings were that American leadership in engineering cannot be maintained unless the ''education pipeline'' from prekindergarten through graduate school is repaired. It also reported that racism, sexism and prejudice against the disabled was narrowing access to careers in engineering and that universities were not enrolling enough students in the field of study.
The report's 15 recommendations encouraged action by industry, the Federal Government, local school boards and universities. It called for scholar-incentive programs, more summer internships and increased recruitment at engineering schools. It also called on the entertainment industry to portray engineers in television programs and films as more dashing and less as narrowly focused drones with little character.
Women who leave engineering to start families find when they return that the technology has changed so dramatically that the transition back into the work force is made easier if they return to school for a master's degree or doctorate.
But the number of women choosing this option is still marginal. In 1987 less than 12 percent of graduate engineering students were women, a 1 percent decrease from the year before, according to figures from the National Science Foundation.
''The number of women we have in our graduate school is trivial,'' said Ruth Erbar, a professor of mechanical engineering at Oklahoma State University. ''The salaries being offered to our women B.S. graduates are so high that it would take an enormous economic incentive to stay for graduate school.''
Other roadblocks for women persist as well. A chronic shortage of American professors in the last decade has led many engineering schools to hire legions of foreign-born professors, many of whom come to this country with negative attitudes toward women that stem from their cultural backgrounds.
''Women don't find themselves easily embraced when so much of the faculty is foreign-born,'' Ms. Denes said. ''The prejudices against women as achievers in the math and science-based fields are ingrained into these professors because they come from countries where women's talents in these areas are not solicited.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Andrea Robertson, SUNY Stony Brook engineering major (NYT/Michael Shavel); graph of undergraduate women enrolled in engineering, fall 1973-1988 (Source: National Science Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (83%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCIENCE FOUNDATION, NATIONAL

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS; WOMEN; WAGES AND SALARIES ENGINEERING (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (64%); 

PERSON: ARUNDEL, JOHN



24 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 29, Column 1; Careers Supplement

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: If Your Line Is Cellular, Give a Ring

BYLINE: BY CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
After Shayna Felts, a computer-science and engineering major, graduated last spring from Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J., she did not have to look hard for a job. Ms. Felts, 22 years old, was recruited by Bell Laboratories, the research and development arm of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, to write software for high-level computers.
The overall employment rate remains slow in the telecommunications industry, which is downsizing and recovering from worker strikes. But A.T.&T. and other telephone companies are actively recruiting recent science and liberal arts graduates to work as network planners, technical operations personnel, engineers and sales and marketing representatives.
The major career opportunities are in the mobile cellular telephone sector, which has shown explosive growth in the last year. Most positions are at the entry level, and telephone companies are planning major recruitment drives this fall on college campuses. 
''It has not been the best year for the telecommunications professional looking for a job, but there are jobs out there, especially for technical experts,'' said Jay Jacobson, president of Personnel Resources International Inc., a telecommunications recruiting firm. Although opportunities have been sluggish in the equipment and vendor-service sectors, Mr. Jacobson remains bullish on the long-range outlook for the telephone expert.
The telephone companies are not alone in their work-force demands. With the telephone playing an ever-larger role in the way people conduct business, large corporations, as well as the Federal Government and state governments that operate their own telephone systems, are looking for qualified technical and design personnel to manage their private networks.
Applicants should have a good understanding of telecommunications technology, communications skills and a broad understanding of economics and business.
''There is a big difference between what you learn in the classroom and how you apply it.'' said Ms. Felts, who turned down opportunities with Exxon and Salomon Brothers to take advantage of Bell Labs's graduate education program. ''I have learned so much about the application of technology to real-life situations.''
Business is booming in the long-distance segment as rates for calls continue to drop and demand grows for services like toll-free 800 numbers, computer-data lines, facsimile transmission, international calling and private telephone networks.
Industry analysts expect the market to grow at double-digit rates for the next five years.
However, telephone companies have installed a variety of automated and digital technologies in their networks that have eliminated a large number of lower-level positions.
Providers of cellular service are expanding their networks, installing digital technology to accommodate the expected growth in subscribers. That has created a continually growing need for people in the technical as well as marketing and administrative areas.
Most in demand are people experienced with paging, trunking and cellular systems, according to Mr. Jacobson, who said that employers were seeking installers, repairers, engineers and service managers. The demand is mainly in major metropolitan areas but cellular providers in medium-size markets are also looking for qualified people, he added.
''The market is expanding so rapidly that we have a dire need for design engineers and technical people in radio frequency who can deal with congestion problems from the increase in cellular phone traffic,'' said Mark A. Hickey, director of human resources for Pacific Telesis Group, the regional Bell phone company that serves the West Coast and owns the Pactel Corporation, one of the biggest players in the cellular industry.
Mr. Hickey said that a college degree was not a major requirement for employment in the cellular industry. More important, he said, is ''a good understanding of the workings of the technology,'' which applies to those seeking jobs in any specialty.
A cellular system transmits telephone calls on radio frequencies and relays the calls over telephone wires. Each service area is divided into cells - hence the name cellular - of up to 16 miles across. As a car moves from one place to another the phone conversation is handed off from one cell to another.
The best employment opportunities are in densely populated cities like New York, Los Angeles, Dallas, Chicago, Houston and Phildelphia, where demand for mobile phone service is greatest.
A.T.&T., the nation's largest long-distance carrier, expects to hire about 2,000 college graduates in the next year, mainly in the engineering and technical fields. Howard Burlingame, A.T.&T.'s director of human resources, said that although the giant telephone company had been consolidating its operations since it spun off the regional Bell phone companies in 1984, it was still looking for product managers, systems and software engineers, sales and marketing people. Since divestiture, A.T.&T. has reduced its work force to 300,000, from 370,000.
''We are looking for good academic records, demonstrated leadership and analytical skills, the capacity to understand business situations and the ability to connect with a group of customers and understand their needs,'' Mr. Burlingame said.
A large number of A.T.&T.'s new hires will come from engineering and computer-related areas and will be assigned to its Bell Labs research division and other technical operations. But some of the new employees are expected to have liberal arts and business backgrounds and be assigned to marketing and sales. ''Liberal arts people,'' Mr. Burlingame said, ''are open to new approaches and new solutions and they have a deeper appreciation for communicating with people. We need these skills in our company.''
A.T.&T. continues to hire holders of master's degrees in business administration for corporate planning and other management functions. As the company expands overseas, opportunities are particularly good for those who specialize in the international arena.
At the MCI Communications Corporation, the nation's second-largest long-distance carrier, recruiters plan to visit about 50 college campuses in the next year to fill about 200 entry-level positions in engineering, computers and other technical areas. These hires will be rotated throughout the company, serving in a variety of technical capacities like network, research and development, systems and customer accounts.
MCI, based in Washington, D.C., plans to hire 250 more employees in nontechnical areas such as sales, marketing and corporate development. John H. Zimmerman, MCI's senior vice president for human resources, said that while the company was looking for liberal arts majors with experience for these positions, it was also hiring at the entry level. A.T.&T. and MCI said they were making a special effort to hire women and minority-group members.
Although most of the nation's seven regional Bell phone companies are reducing their operations, several will be recruiting on college campuses this year for management and network training programs.
Average salaries for entry-level people in the telecommunications industry are $25,000 to $30,000 for liberal arts and technical graduates. M.B.A.'s start at about $35,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Shayna Felts at Bell Laboratories (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); TELEPHONE RATES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); STRIKES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 



25 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 29, Column 2; Careers Supplement

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: In 1990's, What Price Scarce Labor?

BYLINE: BY SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
Workers in the 1990's will have one advantage they have lacked for nearly 25 years: scarcity. This shortage will have profound implications for both managers and employees into the 21st century, economists and labor experts say.
The flood of baby-boomers that have entered the labor market since the mid-1960's will slow to a trickle because of lower birthrates. According to projections by the Census Bureau, next year the number of 18-year-olds will drop by 8 percent and will not reach the levels of 1989 until 2003. As a result, companies will be forced to reach out to inner-city minority and immigrant neighborhoods, to older workers, part-time workers and women with young children, offering lures such as day care and flexible hours. Many of these new employees will be unskilled, requiring companies to train them and turning cities and regions that can boast well-educated workers into meccas for business.
A shortage of adequately trained entry-level employees is but one of several trends that will shape job opportunities and management strategies in the coming decade:
 
* Industries that need well-educated workers capable of making independent decisions will continue to expand, increasing the pressure on schools to educate students better and on supervisors to change an authoritative management style to one that encourages teamwork and initiative.
* Entry-level jobs will demand workers with new skills - because even simple clerical work now requires computer knowledge, bank tellers need more knowledge of financial transactions and sales techniques, and foreign competition means that assembly-line workers need more sophisticated understanding of mathematics and computer-aided manufacturing to cut costs and improve quality.
* Fast-improving telecommunications and computer technologies enable businesses to move crucial staff members to less expensive locations, intensifying regional and international competition.
* Information technology, once the exclusive purview of systems managers, must now be an integral part of corporate strategy, requiring extensive training of senior executives and providing more opportunity for the computer-literate.
* The nation's elderly population will grow, but the largest population increase will be in middle-aged and mid-career Americans - the baby-boom generation.
Economists looking to the 1990's labor force say these trends offer clear guidelines for job seekers. According to Howard Fullerton, a demographic statistician with the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, the five fastest-growing industries from now until the year 2000 will be computer and data-processing services, health services and outpatient facilities, personnel services such as temporary agencies, health practitioners and miscellaneous business services such as credit reporting.
Other fast-growing jobs include paralegals, medical assistants, physical therapists, data-processing equipment repairmen, home health aides, podiatrists and computer systems analysts. It is clear, too, Mr. Fullerton said, that there will be an acute shortage of nurses.
All these openings are in service industries, underlining the historic shift away from manufacturing. Manufacturing has enjoyed a rebound in many parts of the country, but economists say it is unlikely to regain its position as the dominant employer in the United States. Last year, for the first time, service jobs outnumbered manufacturing jobs in the United States, according to Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional Commissioner of Labor Statistics for the New York area. Service industries also reflect the continuing explosive demand for computer expertise, the boom in health care as the population ages and an anticipated labor shortage that increases demand for companies that find workers, such as temporary-employment, or ''temp'' agencies.
The SERVICE industry will offer not only the fastest pace of job growth but also the greatest number of job openings. Specifically the most job openings, a projected 1.2 million, will be for retail sales workers, followed by waiters and waitresses, registered nurses, janitors and cleaners, general managers and cashiers.
More broadly, said Audrey Freedman, an economist at the Conference Board, a business-research organization in New York, the best opportunities, and the greatest demand, will be for jobs that require independent thinking and skills of at least high school level. Even entry-level jobs that used to employ relatively unskilled workers are becoming more demanding, Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
The problem, he and Ms. Freedman agreed, is that these skills are not being taught well enough in schools and that many children are not learning them at home either.
''These jobs require reasoning and logical ability, self-control and the ability to diagnose and take action,'' Ms. Freedman said. ''All these are what people learn when they are very young, as part of family background and how you were raised. This is one area where we're not so sure that children are doing well.''
Jobs that used to absorb large numbers of relatively unskilled workers are being lost as industries decline or companies move some of these jobs overseas to countries with lower wages. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that the biggest drop in job openings will be for electronic assemblers and electronic semiconductor processors, as more companies automate these jobs or subcontract them abroad. Other big drops will be in installers of telephone stations, metal and mining work, leather-products manufacturing and blast-furnace and steel-foundry operators.
Educational requirements are rising in a broad range of jobs, Mr. Ehrenhalt said. ''Those who remain as tellers are being upgraded. They now are being seen as the primary sales force of the banking industry. A bank vice president told me that five years ago he hired 297 high school graduates and 3 college graduates, but in May he hired 150 college graduates and 150 high school graduates.''
Certain kinds of entry-level jobs that used to be steppingstones are being eliminated or transformed by automation. ''What does this do for the prospects of young black women, for whom clerical work was a prime avenue for middle-class jobs and status?'' Mr. Ehrenhalt said. ''The largest group coming in is the one with the most educational deficiencies.''
White non-Hispanics will still dominate the labor force and provide two-thirds of new entrants from now to the year 2,000, Mr. Fullerton said. But at the same time other white non-Hispanics will be retiring from the labor force, reducing their numbers by 5 or 6 percent, and the number of minorities will increase. As a result, for the first time more than half the net growth in the labor force will be from minority groups.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that the labor force will increase over all by 17.8 percent between now and the year 2000. Hispanics will increase by 74.4 percent, Asians and other minorities by 71.2 percent and blacks by 28.8 percent. While many members of these groups have managed to acquire needed skills and move to successful careers, dropout rates are high and English ability low for many others, particularly low-income inner-city residents.
The labor shortage that demographers predict for the 1990's will largely be for entry-level and junior positions, because the large baby-boom population is moving into mid-career and senior positions. This shortage means that companies will have to reach out to groups, and cope with problems, that they could overlook when they had more applicants than jobs.
''During the 1970's,'' Ms. Freedman said, ''corporations saw waves and waves of young people. With such an abundance of new entrants they could be very, very selective. So they selected white young men. Now for every 10 jobs there may be eight applicants; four are women and three are immigrants, and the three are young men, only two of whom are white, and one may take drugs. This shortage of white young men is going to cause companies to discover there are other kinds of people than the kinds their conventional wisdom has directed them toward, and probably will change the way they evaluate and develop people.''
Some corporations have already begun working to improve public education, ''adopting'' schools and sending employees to work with students. Most are enlarging their own training programs to compensate for the gap in worker skills. They are having to reach out to young mothers, offering day-care incentives, and to recruit elderly workers.
The trends spell job opportunities for corporate trainers, human-resources personnel and temporary agencies that supply skilled labor or clerical help.
Along WITH intensifying foreign competition and continued technological advances, these developments emphasize the continuing need for computer literacy among senior managers, and those who want to advance to such positions. According to a five-year management study conducted by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management, managers in the 1990's will have to integrate information technology into all facets of their businesses.
This means job opportunities will increase in computer and data-processing services, the fastest-growing source of employment between now and the year 2000 projected by the Bureau of Labor Services. Consulting services in research management will also rank in the top 10, the bureau found.
All the trends that will shape the 1990's - a job-skills gap, the predominance of service- and knowledge-intensive industries, the boom in health care services, the increasing importance of global competition -have been true in the New York region in the last decade, and will intensify in the next one, Mr. Ehrenhalt said. He predicts that this will increase competition between regions, and with other countries, as corporations move to areas with the best work force.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SHORTAGES; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); TRENDS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (86%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (86%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (79%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); OLDER WORKERS (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); HUMAN RESOURCES (79%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AGING TRENDS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); STATISTICS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (74%); CENSUS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); AGING (69%); NURSES & NURSING (67%); PARALEGALS (66%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); PODIATRY (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN



26 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: REMEDIAL WORK;
Paying Attention To the Schools Is a National Mission Now

BYLINE: By EDWARD B. FISKE

DATELINE: CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.

 BODY:
MANY educators and state officials feared that President Bush's ''edu-cation summit'' last week at the University of Virginia would be little more than an extended photo opportunity for the man who has vowed to be ''the education President.'' But afterward, there was growing agreement among the experts that something more substantive had occurred.
''It was a historic event,'' said Ernest L. Boyer, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. ''The President and the governors acknowledged the national interest in education in a dramatic fashion. What they said and did will shape public schooling in America for years to come.''
Not everyone was as sanguine as Mr. Boyer. But there was remarkably little demand from the governors for a significant increase in Federal spending on education. (Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York was a notable exception.) And praise came from education experts, a group that had initially been critical, largely because of Mr. Bush's decision to exclude educators from the conference. The meeting was, after all, less to shape school reform than to gauge the political climate for such change. 
The bipartisan goodwill did conceal a disagreement over whether the Federal Government should assume more responsibility for nutritional and other programs that are supposed to assure that poorer children arrive at the schoolhouse door with unimpaired learning abilities. In the end, Mr. Bush made a commitment to ''more Federal support'' for preschool programs like Head Start.
The most notable product of the two-day meeting was an agreement between the President and the state leaders to work together to improve schools. ''This is the first time in the history of this country that we have ever thought enough of education to commit ourselves to national performance goals,'' said Gov. Bill Clinton, the Arkansas Democrat who was an architect of the agreement.
American education has always been viewed as a state responsibility and a local enterprise. Talk of a ''national curriculum'' has been tantamount to embracing Communism.
 
Soaring Concern
But in the face of competitive pressures of the global economy and of a national prosperity becoming increasingly dependent on the management of information, the concern over how well states and local school boards perform has soared.
Alarms have been sounded before, each broader than the last. Thirty years ago, the Soviet Union's surprise launching of the first satellite frightened Washington into increasing support for math and science education. And six years ago, the National Commission on Excellence in Education issued a report called ''A Nation at Risk.'' It deplored the ''rising tide of mediocrity'' in the schools and called for tougher high school graduation requirements, more core academic courses, higher teacher salaries and other measures.
Now the President and the governors say that something more, and different, is needed. ''We share the view that simply more of the same will not achieve the results we need,'' their agreement declared. ''We must find ways to deploy the resources more effectively.'' Or as Mr. Bush stated, ''The American people are ready for radical reforms.''
To begin with, the meeting pushed for ''national education goals'' that address dropout rates, adult literacy, teacher quality, drugs and the physical readiness of kindergartners to learn. The governors and the White House hope to have a list ready for the National Governors Association's meeting in February.
Listing goals is easy enough. Much more important, the agreement calls for ''annual report cards'' not only on students and schools but also on the actions of states and the Federal Government. Mr. Bush and the governors have thus not only made some promises but propose to give critics a tool for judging whether they keep them.
Other new directions take the form of what Mr. Bush and the governors called the need to ''restructure education.'' Such changes, many of which are already in place in some school districts, include:
* Decentralized management of schools. Local school boards in Miami and other cities have given individual schools more control over budgets, staffing and other decisions. Chicago is now carrying out a plan that will transfer power from the central education board to parent-led councils.
* Parental choice. Some school systems like District 4 in East Harlem let parents select the school their child will attend. Political conservatives like the idea because it introduces competition into the education, but many liberals and educators argue that it could lead to increased racial imbalance in some urban school systems.
* New routes into teaching. New Jersey pioneered a program to provide teacher certification to college graduates who do not have education degrees, and other states have followed its lead. The idea has drawn fire from some teachers' unions, but many politicians and educators see it as a way to bring new blood into the classroom.
* Accountability. Teachers and school administrators are currently judged not on how much students learn but on the extent to which they comply with legislative and school board regulations. A movement is under way to base such evaluations on academic results, as in a plan now being developed in Vermont.
One of the first results of the governors' meeting is expected to be a plan to make existing Federal education programs more flexible by giving local officials a measure of discretion in carrying them out. Currently, the conference agreement noted, computers purchased under the Chapter I program for disadvantaged students cannot be used in the evening for adult education.
Recognizing the tensions over the issue of Federal spending, Mr. Bush emphasized in his speech at the conference that ''our goals must be 'national' not 'Federal.' '' But if the governors were willing to let money matters rest for now, it was at least partly because Washington accounts for less than 7 percent of spending on public education. So a marginal increase in Federal financing next year would hardly be noticed.
''We're here for the long haul,'' said Governor Clinton. ''If we can demonstrate the urgency of the issue, set some goals and get the President and the governors to accept responsibility for meeting them, then I sincerely believe the money that is needed will begin to flow.''
 
HIGH HOPES IN CHARLOTTESVILLE
Here are excerpts from remarks made on Thursday at the national education conference.
No modern nation can long afford to allow so many of its sons and daughters to emerge into adulthood ignorant and unskilled. The status quo is a guarantee of mediocrity, social decay and national decline.
To those who say that money alone is the answer, I say that there is no one answer. If anything, hard experience teaches that we are simply not getting our money's worth in education. Our focus must no longer be on resources. It must be on results. - President Bush
This is the first time, ever, any group of public officials have ever committed themselves to a national effort to restructure the schools of the United States - something every educator who studied it says is the single most significant thing we could do.
And this is the first time a President and governors have ever stood before the American people and said, not only are we going to set national performance goals, which are ambitious, not only are we going to develop strategies to achieve them, but we stand here before you and tell you we expect to be held personally accountable for the progress we make in moving this country to a brighter future. - Gov. Bill Clinton, Democrat of Arkansas
I think one of the reasons that we're all so excited about the results of the last two days is that the report addresses the financial role of the Federal Government in education, albeit in a limited role, but an extremely important role. And the understanding is that the money that becomes available will be applied to the issue of early childhood education and Head Start and preparing young people for the day that they enter school. - Gov. Booth Gardner, Democrat of Washington

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STATES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); CURRICULA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (73%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); 

PERSON: FISKE, EDWARD B; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 



27 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: A Voice From Bogota;
War on Drugs, for Real, With Casualties

BYLINE: By ENRIQUE SANTOS CALDERON; Enrique Santos Calderon is a columnist for El Tiempo, a newspaper in Bogota.

DATELINE: BOGOTA

 BODY:
HOW can I describe what a journalist in Colombia thinks and feels in these times? How can I explain the fear, the rage, the frustration that engulf journalists every time they sit down in front of their computer screens to perform the professional ritual of commenting on a situation that floods Colombians every day with surreal brutality?
The fear is urgent and palpable; it rises like the roar of an assassin's motorcycle, approaching from behind as you wait in your car for a light to turn green. At its heart, it is a fear born of knowledge that death is stalking our profession so closely; it strikes home each time someone is shot down in the streets or a bomb rips into a newspaper building.
The rage is at a cowardly dictatorship of intimidation, bloody and implacable in its quest to silence the press as the public's conscience. When the drug traffickers murder a judge or a policeman, they have a specific purpose - to stop a legal proceeding or to get rid of an individual who stands in their way. When they kill a journalist, they are trying to eliminate the symbolic voice of the community itself. 
And the frustration rises with the growing certainty that so many deaths and heroic acts of defiance may be for nothing. The blood is being spilled in a war whose outcome ultimately doesn't depend on what happens in our own country or on the courage of honest Colombians.
The frustration comes from knowing that now more than ever before Colombia may be in danger of losing its institutions, its democratic tradition and its best people, and that the drug traffic will continue - as long as a gram of cocaine continues to cost $5 here, $60 in Miami and $100 in Paris. As long as millions of avid customers in the United States and Europe are willing to pay those prices. Those elements of the problem originate and survive outside the borders of Colombia, a country that has already accepted a disproportionate share of sacrifice.
But even if the conditions are not the most favorable, there are wars that must be fought for a nation's dignity and the survival of its system of government. The assassination of the presidential candidate Luis Carlos Galan was the drop that made the cup overflow, the final provocation that forced the Colombian Government to order a total offensive. And it appears to have given President Bush added inspiration in declaring his own offensive - another war against drugs, recalling those declared by Presidents Johnson and Nixon, Carter and Reagan.
By chance, I was in the United States three years ago when President Reagan announced the war against drugs that was to be fought inside his country's borders. I was enthusiastic about this first explicit acknowledgment that the battle would have to begin in the streets and neighborhoods of his own country before it could be fought in the cities and jungles of Colombia. I remember well the splash this change of strategy made in the press and the impact it had on the public. It was Congressional election time.
But it turned out to be more words than deeds. The supposed anti-drug campaign slackened and the crack gangs grew stronger. The domestic front that Mr. Reagan opened in the international war against drugs didn't withstand the enemy's attack.
And now comes the Bush strategy. Colombian television broadcast his speech live, with simultaneous translation. I listened to it, as the whole country did, in the midst of a bombing campaign in the very real war that had broken out here. In addition to skepticism, I felt anger and frustration. Even though it offers more coordination, more will to fight and more indignation than previous strategies did, it is full of inconsistencies and weaknesses that make me fear that the United States is entering - and sending its allies into - another swamp with no way out.
How serious can a war be if it doesn't cost one penny more in taxes? How can a war against drugs be financed by taking away funds from social programs that fight poverty? What real help is being sent to the fronts where the drugs are produced - Colombia, Peru, Bolivia - when the $260 million Mr. Bush has requested represents not even 4 percent of the projected total cost of the war? It is less than the United States spends each year on El Salvador, and it is less than half the cost of one Stealth bomber.
Certainly this is a military war, but first and foremost it is an economic one. And it will be hard to have any success as long as the United States holds to commercial policies that sap the legal economies of those countries. Colombia is to receive more than $100 million in new anti-drug assistance. But it will lose $500 million each year because of the United States-inspired dissolution of an international coffee agreement.
The result of such policies will be to block expansion in the Andean countries of the cultivation of legitimate crops for the American market.
According to William Bennett, the objective of the Bush plan is to cut in half the number of drug users in the United States in 10 years. If the plan works, in other words, within 10 years only half the market will remain. Or as a Colombian journalist in exile, Antonio Caballero, has said, ''Only half the bloodletting will remain.'' And the Colombian mafias, with only half of their resources, will be killing only half the number of judges, policemen and journalists that they kill today.
If that is the case, if the outlook is for us to become simple guinea pigs in an underfinanced low-intensity war against the international drug cartel, it would be better to think about other alternatives: legalizing cocaine, for example, or forgetting about this war and instead launching a Marshall Plan, which is what we really need.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; COLOMBIA

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); WRITERS (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); ASSASSINATION (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); COCAINE (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); 

PERSON: CALDERON, ENRIQUE SANTOS RONALD REAGAN (89%); RICHARD NIXON (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); JIMMY CARTER (50%); 



28 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
In Europe, East Prevails Upon West

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: BRUSSELS

 BODY:
NEARLY 50 years after the Western democracies lost Eastern Europe to Communism, they are beginning to see how they can help Poland and Hungary find a way back. What they lack, diplomats here say, is an overall strategy for the effort, one that will probably require leadership from the United States.
Last week, the industrial democracies appeared to have ended the debate about whether it was in their interest to encourage change in Eastern Europe, and they showed the first signs of willingness to provide at least some of what it will take: many billions of dollars.
The Western debate about Eastern Europe is easier to resolve than the argument about what the West should or could do to help Mikhail S. Gorbachev to change the Soviet system. The Western Europeans, led by the West Germans, have been arguing for months that the problems of Hungary and Poland are less intractable, and they have been waiting for the United States to declare forcefully where its interest lies. 
After weeks of pressure from Congress and the allies, President Bush signaled last week that he had come down on the side of doing more, though how much more was not clear. Mr. Bush was more tentative when he visited Poland and Hungary last summer, but now that a new Polish Government led by Solidarity has promised to dismantle the Communist centralized economy, he said the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank should provide money and advice.
''The United States intends to be out in front of this effort,'' Mr. Bush told a joint meeting of the two bodies Wednesday.
But Poland's needs - emergency food shipments, credits, interest payments on its $39 billion debt, renovation of obsolete industrial plants - are so enormous that Warsaw has hesitated to put a price tag on them, lest it scare off potential donors. From what Polish officials said in Brussels and Washington last week, $2.5 billion for next year alone sounds like a conservative estimate.
Hungary's needs are not so acute, but it has even more ambitious plans to wipe out the effects of 40 years of Communist domination.
Outlining blueprints to do that last week, both Hungary and Poland convinced Western governments that aid would not be money down the drain, as it was in the 1970's. But they will need not only money but also bankers, computer technicians, plant managers and retailers to help them rebuild economic mechanisms and instincts that the Communists tried to eradicate for four decades.
Discussions among the industrial democracies about how to help have been fragmented. The economic summit meetings that bring together Japan, Canada, the United States and the Western European powers are held only once a year. The I.M.F. and World Bank are in Washington. The European Community is short of expertise on Eastern Europe, but it was asked by participants in the economic summit in July to coordinate aid from the 24 countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Last week the community's executive commission made its proposals, suggesting that the 24 come up with $660 million in aid for 1990. The enthusiastic response made it clear that most of them thought this was a good start, but only that. The biggest potential donors - West Germany, the United States and Japan - did not say how much more they would provide.
The United States has held back, NATO diplomats in Brussels say, to encourage Europeans to take the initiative. But now that they seem ready to act, these diplomats say, the United States should take the lead.
The full implications of change in the East are complex. Should the European Community broaden its plans for economic unification in 1992? Even more troublesome, if the Warsaw Pact withers away, is there any need for NATO? Some diplomats are alarmed by statements like one made last week by the West German Foreign Minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, in an interview with the newsmagazine Der Spiegel: ''Do we really want to acquire new nuclear rockets that can reach the Poland of Lech Walesa and democratic developments, or the Hungary of humaneness and democratization?''
In the Vienna talks now under way, both sides could well agree to reduce conventional forces. Even so, some NATO experts believe, both the Western alliance and the Warsaw Pact will be needed to insure compliance. And, just as Greece and Turkey and inhibited from armed hostilities because both belong to NATO, the world might be more comfortable with Hungary and Rumania both in the Warsaw Pact rather than outside it.
Bonn has its own agenda in Eastern Europe, focused on East Germany and the possibility of unification. Until recently, its pleas for a joint allied strategy fell on deaf ears.
But now, President Bush has sent a signal, and the European Community has made a start. Perhaps new international institutions, bold and large scale like those that helped Western Europe recover from the war, are needed to help Poland and Hungary show the East a way out of the ashes. Europe has not been such an exciting place in years, but much of the excitement is in the unknown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); POLAND (97%); HUNGARY (95%); BELGIUM (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; HUNGARY; POLAND

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R GEORGE W BUSH (66%); 



29 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The Midwest Tries to Slow The Flow of Eastern Trash

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
EACH week, the trucks roll westward and southward from New Jersey, New York and, to a lesser extent, Connecticut, filled to overflowing with one of the East Coast's rising new exports. It is garbage, tons and tons of unsorted household refuse and miscellaneous municipal waste, stuffed into semi-trailers and headed for landfills in western Pennsylvania and elsewhere.
As communities in the Northeast run out of disposal space, there has been a rush to find dumps in other states, where private landfill operators are willing to sell off some unused capacity. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that New Jersey, which has strict dumping rules, now exports nearly half of its solid waste to other states. Many New Jersey towns and counties say it is less expensive to truck a ton of garbage 400 miles to Ohio, where dump fees are only a fraction of what they are in the East, than it is to bury it in one of the state's few remaining landfills. 
But in the Midwest and elsewhere - Kentucky and West Virginia are also net importers of trash - this unexpected boom in garbage imports is provoking outrage and giving rise to a new kind of economic and environmental protectionism. Alarmed that they are losing landfill space for their own needs, state officials and environmental groups are calling for tougher regulations to halt or at least reduce the flow of out-of-state garbage.
According to the National Solid Wastes Management Association, the trade group for haulers, landfill operators and other private waste disposal companies, 33 states have considered or enacted legislation in recent years that is intended to exclude, limit or more closely regulate imports of municipal and hazardous wastes.
Most common are measures that would allow counties to restrict disposal of trash from outside their area. In addition, Ohio and several other states are pushing Congress to exert more control over growing garbage shipments across state lines. One proposal would allow states to levy a $40 a ton tax on imported garbage.
Currently, states are powerless to impose tariffs or special taxes on imports of garbage. As a result of a 1976 United States Supreme Court case, in which New Jersey sought unsuccessfully to turn back garbage being shipped into the state from Philadelphia, garbage is regarded as a commodity in interstate commerce, not unlike television sets and automobiles.
Richard Sahli, chairman of Ohio's Solid Waste Management Advisory Council, a state agency, said that the states are having a difficult time managing their own growing waste problems, and need to be able to limit the amount of garbage coming from elsewhere.
''We can't handle New Jersey's problems and still plan rationally for own solid waste needs,'' he said.
Since 1971, Mr. Sahli said, the number of landfills in Ohio has declined, from 360 to 172. By 1991, he said, the state will have fewer than 130, as the dumps fill to capacity and are forced to close. Meanwhile, Ohio imported 2.4 million tons of garbage in 1988, twice the volume of 1987. Of that, 1.5 million tons came from New Jersey, with the rest coming from several other states.
It is not only the Eastern states that export garbage. Haulers in the St. Louis area, for example, transport about two thirds of their trash, or nearly 1.1 million tons a year, across the Mississippi River to landfills in Illinois.
The waste managment industry tends to oppose efforts to block interstate trash shipments. Allen Moore, president of the National Solid Wastes Management Association, said that efforts to restrict interstate garbage shipments could be counterproductive. ''There is a lot of anger out there and it is understandable, but I believe this is really just a temporary phenomenon,'' he said. ''What we really need to do is think more broadly.'' New Jersey officials say they hope that by 1992 their strategy of recycling or incinerating more trash will sharply reduce the amount of exported solid waste. Richard Fulton, a spokesman for the state's Department of Environmental Protection, said he sympathized with Ohio officials. ''Morally, it is an unfair burden to place on another state,'' said Mr. Fulton. But that is little solace for people in Ohio or Michigan, who watch a steady stream of trucks with New York and New Jersey license plates hauling garbage to local landfills.
''They go through all the trouble of siting a new landfill, or working out a recycling program, and they think they have done themselves a favor,'' said Bruce Weddle, the director of the E.P.A.'s municipal solid waste program. ''Instead, they wake up one day and find they did New Jersey a favor.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL SOLID WASTES MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE WESTERN STATES (US); NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; GARBAGE; STATES (US) LANDFILLS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E



30 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
How Much Does New Jersey Really Like Republicans?

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
ON a recent visit to New Jersey, President Bush portrayed the race for governor as a referendum not only on eight years of Republican leadership in Trenton, but on the national party's values and policies in the 1980's. Calling the New Jersey election ''crucial,'' Mr. Bush said, ''This election will decide whether New Jersey continues to have the kind of leadership which balances a sound economy and sound ecology, and whether its leadership says 'no' to higher taxes and 'yes' to extending the prosperity of the last eight years.''
The Republican nominee for governor, Representative Jim Courter, picked up the President's theme, saying, ''If you liked Michael Dukakis, you'll love Jim Florio.''
At least that was the battle plan. But by last week politicians in both parties were saying that unless Mr. Courter runs a far more successful campaign in the next five weeks, an electorate that gave Mr. Bush a 57 percent majority in the state last year could turn the governorship over to a Democrat. Mr. Courter's opponent, Representative James J. Florio, an eight-term Democrat from southern New Jersey, and other Democrats seized on the President's remarks, saying they welcomed the chance to make the race a nationally watched referendum. 
''My friends in Congress are saying to me, 'Go to it, now you are carrying the ball for all of us,' '' Mr. Florio said last week.
He asserted that Republican strategists have taken too simplistic a view of why they have dominated New Jersey elections in the 1980's. While President Ronald Reagan and Gov. Thomas H. Kean were in office and New Jersey's economy boomed, Mr. Florio said, voters' anxiety was rising over issues like the environment and overdevelopment.
At first glance, New Jersey would appear the ideal proving ground to show that the Republican message of the 1980's still is vital. A traditionally Democratic, blue-collar state, New Jersey has voted for Republican candidates for President and governor in the 1980's races, including the landslide re-election of Mr. Kean in 1985, and lopsided victories for Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush. While voters favored the Democratic Party by 31 percent to 22 percent in 1980 and 1981, voter preferences are nearly equal today, according to surveys by the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University.
From the viewpoint of national Republican leaders, who initially planned Mr. Courter's campaign, the candidate seemed the perfect symbol: youthful, at ease on television and unswerving in his devotion to the Reagan agenda of smaller government, the free market and conservative social policies. Mr. Courter's election, like Mr. Bush's election last year, Republican analysts said, could prove that popularity lay in the party's policies after the retirement of Mr. Reagan.
But even Republicans around Mr. Kean have criticized Mr. Courter's campaign as a Washington invention that has not been attuned to recent trends in New Jersey.
Although voters were plainly dissatisfied with economic stagnation and high taxes in the Democratic administrations of President Jimmy Carter and Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, polls showed that they were not necessarily opposed to the social changes of the 1960's and 1970's.
Recent surveys by the Eagleton Institute also show growing dissatisfaction with some of the fruits of the largely unregulated economic boom in the most densely populated state. Many citizens have grown increasingly frustrated at traffic snarls on the highways and have come to regard environmental protection no longer as an issue put forward by liberals but as an essential goal.
Supporters of Mr. Courter, a six-term Congressman from the state's rural northwest corner, acknowledge that he made some missteps after winning the June primary. For a decade he presented himself as a supporter of the anti-abortion movement. But after the United States Supreme Court appeared to shift more responsibilities to the states for regulating abortion, he said that he would not ''simply pose my personal views on the women of New Jersey.'' Both supporters and opponents of abortion accused him of vacillating.
In August, Mr. Courter proposed a ban on homosexuals as teachers and in other jobs that put them in contact with children. In September, he changed his position and denied that he had ever proposed the ban, although television stations played videotapes of Mr. Courter stating his earlier views.
Roger Stone, the Washington consultant who originally planned the Courter strategy and left the campaign in July, said that the missteps can still be overcome. Most voters, Mr. Stone said, have not been paying attention to the campaign and will make up their minds based on the television commercials and news reports they see in the final weeks. Robert Franks, a Courter strategist, said that after a difficult summer the campaign is finally on track. ''We're just about where we want to be now,'' he said.
But several polls released in recent days indicate that voters have noticed the campaign and favor Mr. Florio by significant margins. Some initial findings indicate that Mr. Courter's stand on abortion may have hurt him among Republicans. Even Republican officials concede that Mr. Courter faces a steep climb this month to give the President the vote of confidence he expects.

GRAPHIC: Representatives Jim Courter and James J. Florio before their first debate last week in West Long Branch, N.J. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); COURTER, JIM (REPR); KERR, PETER JAMES A COURTER (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 



31 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
Working Warily With Japan

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
INSIDE the Austin, Tex., laboratories of Sematech, the research consortium struggling to restore American manufacturing skills in memory chips, the Japanese are distinctly unwelcome. The clean rooms where chips are fabricated are closed to most foreigners. When Sematech needed a Nikon repairman to keep a vital piece of equipment running, he was walled off from the rest of the lab.
''The Japanese burned our industry and buried it,'' Turner Hasty, a former Texas Instruments executive who is a Sematech top strategist, told a visitor in August. ''We are not about to give them a guided tour.'' 
But here in Tokyo, the same American companies that are financing Sematech can no longer afford such a hard-line stance. A few months ago Texas Instruments announced an alliance with Hitachi to design a 16 million-bit memory chip, the next generation. I.B.M. just signed an unusual joint manufacturing deal with Toshiba for making lightweight video screens for laptop computers, a field the Japanese dominate.
These days Japan is by turns America's desperate competitor and its indispensable ally. The ambivalence is hardly limited to high tech. Few question that Sony Corporation's $3.4 billion acquisition last week of Columbia Pictures Entertainment will help both companies in a world where high-definition television, satellite broadcasting and new video technologies are as important to making money in the movies as big-name stars, good plots and romantic tension. But there is a lurking sense that with each deal some critical skills - from making chips to movies - are ultimately improving profits in Tokyo, not at home.
Many economists have long argued that in these days of global markets, it is better to encourage interdependence than to build walls around American companies or, worse, around fundamental technologies. But in Congress at least, fewer and fewer legislators seem to subscribe to that theory.
 
The Case of the FSX
Earlier this year in the dispute over the FSX fighter jet to be co-developed by the two countries, there were cries that the United States was giving away critical technology that would be used against it. The FSX only became an issue because the agreement required Congressional approval. What Congress has yet to address is whether the same risk applies in private agreements between companies, where the lion's share of technolgical transfer - in both directions - takes place.
 
Cracking New Markets
Hardly a week goes by here when some Silicon Valley company does not strike a deal for research-and-development money it cannot raise at home. Often the quid pro quo is a technology that gives Japanese companies a quick entry into markets they could not crack. NEC last week introduced a microprocessor based on a promising design by a midsized Silicon Valley company, MIPS Computer Systems, that will be used for a new generation of work stations.
With increasing frequency, the technology also goes in the other direction. Steve Jobs, the mercurial founder of Apple, obtained an advanced optical disk drive from Canon Inc. for the computer developed by his new company, Next. But Canon got a big stake in the company and marketing rights in Japan.
So far the Government cannot seem to decide when such alliances are good and when they are not. The Bush Administration spent much of the spring talking about a national effort to develop high-definition television without collaborating with the Japanese. But the first image cast on the high-definition screen was the price tag. Japanese industry has already spent nearly a billion dollars on this technology. In recent weeks an Administration nervous about where to get the money has begun warming to the idea of an alliance.
In recent visits to Tokyo, Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher and Vice President Dan Quayle have done little to clear up the confusion. Both endorsed the idea of Japanese and American companies working side by side. But asked at a forum of American business leaders here whether that meant letting the United States affiliates of Japanese companies into big government projects, Mr. Mosbacher changed the subject. Mr. Quayle toured a satellite plant and talked about the need to cooperate in space. Asked how that squared with the Administration's complaint that Japan is protecting its industry by refusing to buy American satellites, Mr. Quayle said trade ''will be dealt with separately.'' He left his Japanese audience wondering how.
Underlying the seeming contradictions lies a continuing effort to decide which industries are vital to national security. Robert Noyce, the co-inventor of the chip and Sematech's chief, argues that if American inability to compete in mass production of memory chips leads to the demise of the companies that build chip-making equipment, then the country's defense base is threatened. Americans should avoid growing dependent on Japanese technology ''even if that means depriving ourselves of Japanese products,'' he says.
In reality, Mr. Noyce admits, Americans are unlikely to give up their VCR's, stereo systems, video cameras, fax machines and laptop computers in the vague hope of rebuilding American industry. Americans are hooked on Japan. If it is any consolation, Japan is also hooked on the United States. Sony bought Columbia, and promised to keep its hands off it, because American movies are so popular around the world. And it continues to buy American military hardware, even though many argue here that Japan now has the strength to scorn American technology altogether.
For both sides it is probably too late for such thinking. The technological alliances between the two countries are so intertwined that the old labels, ''Made in America'' and ''Made in Japan,'' are meaningless.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (90%); 6502 (TSE) (90%); SON (LSE) (68%); SNE (NYSE) (68%); 6758 (TSE) (68%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (90%); SONY CORP (68%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MEMORY CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (89%); TRENDS (86%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); APPROVALS (66%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (51%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E JAMES DANFORTH 'DAN' QUAYLE (61%); 



32 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1979 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS: 'A Jeffersonian Compact';
The Statement by the President and Governors

 BODY:
AT the end of the education conference last week at the University of Virginia, President Bush and the country's governors issued what they called ''a Jeffersonian compact to enlighten our children and the children of generations to come.'' Declaring that ''the time for rhetoric is past,'' they issued this statement.
 
The President and the nation's Governors agree that a better educated citizenry is the key to the continued growth and prosperity of the United States. Education has historically been, and should remain, a state responsibility and a local function, which works best when there is also strong parental involvement in the schools. And, as a nation we must have an educated work force, second to none, in order to succeed in an increasingly competitive world economy.
Education has always been important, but never this important because the stakes have changed: Our competitors for opportunity are also working to educate their people. As they continue to improve, they make the future a moving target. We believe that the time has come, for the first time in U.S. history, to establish clear, national performance goals, goals that will make us internationally competitive. 
The President and the nation's Governors have agreed at this summit:
* to establish a process for setting national education goals;
* to seek greater flexibility and enhanced accountability in the use of Federal resources to meet the goals, through both regulatory and legislative changes;
* to undertake a major state-by-state effort to restructure our education system; and
* to report annually on progress in achieving our goals.
This agreement represents the first step in a long-term commitment to reorient the education system and to marshal widespread support for the needed reforms.
 
NATIONAL EDUCATION GOALS
The first step in restructuring our education system is to build a broad-based consensus around a defined set of national education goals. The National Governor's Association Task Force on Education will work with the President's designees to recommend goals to the President and the nation's Governors. The process to develop the goals will involve teachers, parents, local school administrators, school board members, elected officials, business and labor communities, and the public at large. The overriding objective is to develop an ambitious, realistic set of performance goals that reflect the views of those with a stake in the performance of our education system. To succeed we need a common understanding and a common mission. National goals will allow us to plan effectively, to set priorities, and to establish clear lines of accountability and authority. These goals will lead to the development of detailed strategies that will allow us to meet these objectives.
The process for establishing these goals should be completed and the goals announced in early 1990.
By performance we mean goals that will, if achieved, guarantee that we are internationallly competitive, such as goals related to:
* the readiness of children to start school;
* the performance of students on international achievement tests, especially in math and science;
* the reduction of the dropout rate and the improvement of academic performance, especially among at-risk students;
* the functional literacy of adult Americans;
* the level of training necessary to guarantee a competitive workforce;
* the supply of qualified teachers and up-to-date technology; and
* the establishment of safe, disciplined, and drug-free schools.
 
THE FEDERAL-STATE PARTNERSHIP
 
Flexibility and Accountability
The President and the Governors are committed to achieving the maximum return possible from our investments in the nation's education system. We define maximum return as the following: significant and sustained educational improvement for all children. Nothing less will meet the nation's needs for a strong, competitive work force; nothing less will meet our children's needs for successful citizenship and economic opportunity.
Federal funds, which represent only a small part of total education spending, are directed particularly toward services for young people most at risk. Federal laws and regulations control where and for whom states and localities spend this money. State and local laws and regualtions control what is taught, and how, for all students.
At present, neither Federal nor state and local laws and regulations focus sufficiently on results, or on real educational improvement for all children. Federal and state executives need authority to waive statutory and regulatory provisions in return for greater accountability for results.
The President and the Governors have agreed:
* to examine Federal regulations under current law and to move in the direction of greater flexibility;
* to take parallel steps in each state with respect to state laws and administrative rules;
* to submit legislation to Congress early next year that would provide state and local recipients greater flexibility in the use of Federal funds, in return for firm commitments to improved levels of education and skill training.
The President and the Governors have agreed to establish a working group of Governors and the President's designees to begin work immediately to accomplish these tasks.
We know that other voices need to be heard in this discussion - voices of educators, parents, and those whose primary interest is the protection of the disadvantaged, minorities, and the handicapped. We need to work with the Congress. The processes we will set up immediately following this conference will involve all parties.
The urgent need for flexibility in using Federal funds can best be illustrated by a few examples.
First, the Federal Vocational Education Act, which mandates specific set-asides that often result in individual awards that are too small to be meaningful and that prohibit the money from being spent to achieve its purpose. One state reported being required to divide $300,000 in aid among far too many categories and set-asides.
Second, similarly, the Chapter 1 program requires that equipment purchased to provide remedial education sevices cannot be used for non-Chapter 1 institutions in areas such as adult education. Several states report that large numbers of computers purchased by Federal funds are idle at night, while adult education classes that need them either do without or use scarce tax dollars to buy other equipment.
Third, the requirements that children who benefit from Federal funds for compensatory and special education be taught separately often undermines their achievement. Waivers that permit these students to return to regular classes and receive extra help have produced large increases in their test scores. This option should be available for all school districts.
These commitments are historic steps toward ensuring that young people with the greatest needs receive the best our schools and training programs can give them, and that all children reach their highest educational potential. In a phrase, we want to swap red tape for results.
 
The Federal Government's Financial Role
State and local governments provide more that 90 percent of education funding. They should continue to bear that lion's share of the load. The Federal financial role is limited and has even declined, but it is still important. That role is:
* to promote national education equity by helping our poor children get off to a good start in school, giving disadvantaged and handicapped children extra help to assist them in their school years, ensuring accessibility to a college education, and preparing the workforce for jobs;
* and second, to provide research and development for programs that work, good information on the real performance of students, schools, and states, and assistance in replicating successful state and local initiatives all across the United States.
We understand the limits imposed on new spending by the Federal deficit and the budget process. However, we urge that priority for any further funding increases be given to prepare young children to succeed in school. This is consistent with the President's recommendation for an increase in the number of children served by Head Start in this year's budget. If we are ever to develop a system that ensures that our children are healthy and succeed in school, the Federal Government will have to play a leading role.
Further, we urge that the Congress not impose new Federal mandates that are unrelated to children, but that require states to spend state tax money that could otherwise go to education.
 
COMMITMENT TO RESTRUCTURING
Virtually every state has subsantially increased its investment in education, increased standards and improved learning. Real gains have occurred. However, we still have a long way to go. We must make dramatic improvements in our education system. This cannot be done without a genuine, national, bipartisan commitment to excellence and without a willingness to dramatically alter our system of education.
The President and the nation's Governors agree that significant steps must be taken to restructure education in all states. We share the view that simply more of the same will not achieve the results we need. We must find ways to deploy the resources we commit to education more effectively. A similar process has been going on in American manufacturing industry over the last decade with astonishing results: an increase in productivity of nearly 4 percent a year.
There are many promising new ideas and strategies for restructuring education. These include greater choice for parents and students, greater authority and accountability for teachers and principals, alternative verification programs for teachers, and programs that systematically reward excellence and performance. Most successful restructuring efforts seem to have certain common characteristics:
* a system of accountability that focuses on results, rather than on compliance with rules and regulations;
* decentralization of authority and decision-making responsibility to the school site, so that educators are empowered to determine the means for achieving the goals and to be held accountable for accomplishing them;
* a rigorous program of instruction designed to ensure that every child can acquire the knowledge and skills required in an ecomony in which our citizens must be able to think for a living;
* an education system that develops first-rate teachers and creates a professional environment that provides real rewards for success with students, real consequences for failure, and the tools and flexibility required to get the job done; and
* active, sustained parental and business community involvement.
Restructuring efforts are now under way in many states. The nation's Governors are committed to a major restructuring effort in every state. The Governors will give this task high priority and will report on their progress in one year.
 
ASSURING ACCOUNTABILITY
As elected chief executives, we expect to be held accountable for progress in meeting the new national goals and we expect to hold others accountable as well.
When goals are set and strategies for achieving them are adopted, we must establish clear measures of performance and then issue annual Report Cards on the progress of students, schools, the states, and the Federal Government.
Over the last few days we have humbly walked in the footsteps of Thomas Jefferson. We have started down a promising path. We have entered into a compact - a Jeffersonian compact to enlighten our children and the children of generations to come.
The time for rhetoric is past; the time for performance is now.

GRAPHIC: President Bush speaking at education meeting with governors in Charlottesville, Va., last week (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GOVERNORS (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TRENDS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PARENTING (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); HISTORY (71%); LABOR FORCE (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



33 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: For U.S. Coins, a Great Day Is About to Dawn;
Eliminate All Bills

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I wish to improve on Donald T. Regan's idea of a one-time exchange of old bills for new bills so that cash-hoarding drug dealers may be identified (''The Color of Money Can Stop Drugs,'' Op-Ed, Sept. 18).
All cash - that is, green currency - should be eliminated. We can convert to an economy in which only checks and credit cards are used. The elimination of cash would hamper drug dealers, who generally use cash in their transactions. Prosecution of traffickers would be facilitated by police analysis of the financial records of suspects to determine the flow of their funds. Al Capone was convicted by the auditing of his records. Nothing else worked in fighting the powerful black marketeer of alcohol during Prohibition; nothing else will work in policing our illegal drug market. 
Crimes such as loan sharking and kidnapping, requiring cash, would be more difficult. Auditing in criminal prosecutions could cover tax evaders, arms traders and all black markets.
We would face inconveniences in a checking and credit card economy. It seems absurd to write a check for bubblegum or to use a card at a hot dog stand, but coins could still be used.
Elimination of paper cash may be inflationary. The expense of credit would be added to the price of all transactions. This could be offset by advances in the efficiency of charge card use, for instance, machines through which cards are quickly passed. Retailers and 24-hour bank tellers use this equipment already.
A checking and charge card economy will not be drug free, of course. Sophisticated dealers will still conduct transactions using phony corporations, wire transfers and precious metals. Nevertheless, most dealers would have a tougher time and most law enforcement agencies would have an easier time: trails are left by checks and charge slips, but not with cash. Moreover, more drug profits could be taxed.
 
PAUL RAMPELL
 Palm Beach, Fla., Sept. 21, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (52%); 

SUBJECT: NUMISMATICS; DRUG TRAFFIC CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); COINS & COINAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); TAX FRAUD (77%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WIRE TRANSFERS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (68%); 

PERSON: REGAN, DONALD T; RAMPELL, PAUL



34 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: 'Liberal Democracy' Almost Defines Japan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Awaiting the Great Boredom'' (editorial, Sept. 11), about Francis Fukuyama's theory of the end of history, was on the mark for two-thirds of the way. The last third, stating that Japan and the example it sets for East Asia affords a very different global model from the liberal democracy of the West, goes off track.
You assert that Japan is not a liberal democracy because a powerful bureaucracy and not elected officials set major policies, leading to forced conformity, powerless individuals and economic benefits for producers and not consumers. A few recent writers have made these criticisms, but a reader of your paper would have seen little to support them. 
You waffle on the distinction between ''democracy'' and ''liberal democracy,'' but no matter what the definition, it is hard to establish that Japan is not a democracy. It has perhaps the most liberal constitution in the world (written by the American occupation), which is generally accepted and applied by the people.
Laws are debated and passed by the Diet, even if most of them are drafted by an experienced and qualified bureaucracy. The power of the ruling party is now being tested, as an alert electorate prepares itself for an election, women are participating more in the political process, budget procedures are open and more rational than in most other big countries, a lively Communist Party operates freely, and the nation is going through a huge consumption boom.
True, Japan has many problems, such as ethnocentrism, a weak sense of international responsibility and inflated domestic prices. But a nation such as ours, battling problems of race, crime, inferior education, voter indifference and a grossly mismanaged budget, is not in the strongest position to throw stones at the Japanese. And finally, to equate Japan with its Asian neighbors is distasteful to all of them.
If we try to make Japan our ideological foe in order to keep history alive, we would be much better off helping it die.
 
RICHARD B. FINN
 Bethesda, Md., Sept. 13, 1989
 
The writer was State Department Director for Japan, 1969-70.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSUMPTION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: FINN, RICHARD B



35 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Tax-and-Spend Democrats Never Learn

BYLINE: By Guy Vander Jagt; Guy Vander Jagt, a Michigan Representative, is chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
People like to say the only certainties in life are death and taxes. Medical science is making headway against death, and Democrats in Congress appear to be working hard to retain the certainty of the second.
During President Bush's first eight months in office, he has proposed major domestic programs in areas of critical public concern: the Federal budget, crime, drugs, education and job creation.
A pattern has emerged: Each proposal is well received by the experts in the field and, more importantly, by the public. Each proposal is a step toward delivering on the President's campaign promise of a kinder, gentler America and an agenda for the his promise of ''no new taxes.'' 
Then, almost each and every proposal meets with Democrats calling for more spending and higher taxes and, when they are in a creative mood, new taxes - even though every White House initiative has included a way to fund the proposal without a tax increase.
Consider Mr. Bush's national drug strategy. He presented the first comprehensive national strategy to turn the tide against the drug invasion -along with the largest one-year funding increase ever to pay for it. His plan will fight every aspect of the drug crisis - from supply to demand, to treatment and education. The plan involves every level of government -Federal, state and local.
The public has heard little criticism of the substance of the drug plan. But, within minutes of the President's presentation on television, liberal Democrats perceived a glaring imperfection: The price tag was too low.
Congressional Democrats have shown us their swift and unchanging reflex for higher taxes and more spending several times this year.
For example, President Bush proposed a new era for education and put forward a plan for encouraging excellence and reform. Included in the $441 million legislative package are programs to reward excellence, expand magnet schools and provide funds for drug abuse prevention.
These funds are over and above President Reagan's $21.9 billion request for 1990. Nonetheless, with Pavlov's dog watching in awe, the Democrats in Congress responded: We need more.
To encourage more investment, Mr. Bush, during his campaign, called for a reduction in the capital gains tax. Economists agree that such a cut stimulates the economy and creates jobs.
Because of the President's patience and leadership, and because a group of traditional Democrats have broken with their liberal leaders, a reduction in the capital gains tax passed the House last Thursday.
Representative Richard Gephardt, the Democrats' majority leader, however, is utterly unhappy with the cut in capital gains, proving that all his talk about competitiveness is - talk. If he really understood how to make the U.S. more competitive against trading partners, he would be delirious in his support for cutting the capital gains rate to bring U.S. rates closer to the rates of our trading partners. (With minor qualifications, West Germany and Japan have virtually no taxes on capital investments.) This issue shows the key difference between Republican and Democratic policies. Republicans believe, and their policies have confirmed, that lower tax rates benefit every American. Democrats believe that lowering tax rates is wrong. All the talk about a tax break for the rich is political double talk. On principle, liberal Democrats oppose less Government spending and lower taxes.
How has the Democratic leadership responded to the President Bush's campaign pledge, which helped lead him to an electoral landslide? They want to revive some type of individual retirement account and use it as a cover to - you get one guess - raise taxes.
In 1981, Ronald Reagan proposed and won individual income tax rate reductions of 25 percent. His tax cut brought our economy back to life and started the longest peacetime expansion in our history, an expansion that continues today.
A few weeks ago, the Democrats met in Washington to analyze their latest national defeat. But analyzing the last election in isolation could lead to unsound conclusions.
The results of the 1988 elections should be inspected for resemblances to the 1980 and 1984 elections. That type of examination will show strong parallel. Read the public's lips and count their votes: Cut Government waste, redirect funding from ineffective programs and achieve greater efficiency in Government spending. But please, no new taxes. The distinction between the Republican and Democratic parties on increasing the tax burden are profound. And that distinction will remain deep and lasting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); VANDER JAGT, GUY (REPR) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



36 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
Help the East Look Ahead

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
Immediate concerns are about the ability of reformers in the East to weather the transformations made possible by the internal crises in Poland and Hungary, already peeking over the horizon in Czechoslovakia and East Germany. No one can doubt that it's in the West's interest to help, even if how and how much have to be figured out.
But it's important to start planning for the other side of this European watershed. These countries, and Europe as a whole, will have a much better chance of proceeding safely if they can have a better idea of where they are going, what kind of haven may await them. 
Poles are eager to move, but they worry about being left alone between a Germany only loosely tied to the West and the Soviet Union. But there is no chance this century of Eastern countries being swept into the embrace of the European Community, moving comfortably into a rambling ''common European house.''
Two historical precedents suggest a way to set sights. They are the Marshall Plan and what I call the Kossuth Plan. The Marshall Plan, which enabled Western Europe to achieve prosperity and democracy in less than a generation after the vast destruction of World War II, was not only, not even mainly, about money. It injected a total of $18 billion in U.S. loans and grants in some four years, but more important was how it was done.
The two key factors were: 1. a multiplying effect - by requiring cooperation among participants, the impact of the money was greatly increased. German coal was sent to French locomotive factories to renew Dutch or Italian railways. What was available could be quickly put to use and national bottlenecks broken. The experience taught the countries to work together and laid foundations for the Common Market.
And 2. controls - there was multinational supervision of how the money was spent, led by the U.S. but with full participation of all involved. Local income from sale of U.S. supplies was put into counterpart funds used for approved new projects.
The European Community has taken responsibility for coordinating international aid to Hungary and Poland. It can expand this role to a Marshall Plan-type approach that would combine conversion from centrally planned to free-market economies and help in restructuring to meet larger market opportunities. Western Europe must take the lead; it knows the ropes.
But Poland and Hungary together are not big enough, nor complementary enough, to provide the needed scope. The Kossuth Plan offers a possible framework. Lajos Kossuth was the 19th-century Hungarian statesman who urged turning the Austro-Hungarian empire into a Danubian confederation. It could have defused the nationality conflicts that led to World War I, and helped to avoid the fragmentation and economic distress that led to World War II.
There are still natural affinities and old ties in Central Europe. Soviet dominion never accommodated nationalisms, - on the rise again - as cooperation did in Western Europe. This is a historical task, still to be achieved, if the East is to come out of cold war without falling back into the devastating strains of the between-wars period, or reviving a German problem.
Though it now thinks of joining the Brussels Community, Austria would be interested in a Central European project. Yugoslavia would be delighted. It is possible Switzerland and other members of the European Free Trade Association, orphaned when Britain decided to join instead of fight the Common Market, could be involved. Sooner or later, Czechoslovakia and Rumania wouldn't be able to resist. East Germany could decide which way to go without provoking an intolerable imbalance.
This is not to suggest a new bloc between the Soviets and the West. There would be no military dimension to a broad plan for economic regeneration. Necessarily, the East bloc's Comecon would be undermined. But it is falling apart anyway, and there are signs that Moscow is pleased that its allies are developing ties that reduce their burden on the Soviets and help them gain access to the world economy.
Whether Marshall Plan-type cooperation in Central Europe would lead to greater integration, on a regional basis or continent-wide, could be left to the future. In the meantime, it could provide the Soviet Union with assurances that it isn't about to face renewed East-West confrontation on its own borders by letting allies escape its control.
And it would comfort the yearning of those in between to prove that they are a part of Europe, no longer sealed off from historic partners. They have a tremendous, daunting task ahead. They need the encouragement of a map which goes beyond the horizon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); HUNGARY (95%); POLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (54%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (52%); MARSHALL PLAN (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; HUNGARY; POLAND

SUBJECT: MARSHALL PLAN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (70%); WORLD WAR I (70%); TRENDS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA



37 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Budget Beds: An Inside Look At New Motels

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
THE last two times I was on the road for research, I started gathering information on new types of inexpensive accommodations along the highway or near the airport. Three of four of the places explored were parts of chains, so you could reasonably expect to find the same thing each time.
There are surprising variations in what you get when you rent a room in the vast price range between the economy motel, with its paper bathmat, and the luxurious digs with the fleecy bathrobe. At middle-priced motels that expect children as a matter of course, for example, swimming pools may be kept locked until 10 A.M. so that happy squeals do not awaken tired adults. But at the Courtyard by Marriott in Arlington, Tex., one in a middle-priced motel chain designed and priced for business travelers, I was able to swim a few silent laps at 6 A.M. as the sky turned pink behind the pines in the yard. 
In-room coffee service is another variable. After my swim in the Courtyard, I could not get a cup of real coffee until the little dining corner opened at 7 A.M.; the in-room coffee offering consists of a tap for boiling water, tea bags, packets of instant coffee, plus two nice ceramic cups. On the other hand, at Comfort Suites in South San Francisco, Calif., a less glossy place by far, the minibar refrigerator contained a 75-cent ''coffee kit'' with a paper filter, real coffee and instructions for use in a coffeemaker bolted to the counter in the dressing room. The coffee was better but the cup, alas, was styrofoam.
Not so many years ago, when news reporters went on the road, they would usually ask to be put up at a Holiday Inn, a middle-priced chain where the motel is usually operated under a franchise. If asked why they made such a mundane choice, they said that after a day on the road pursuing people and events, they wanted a place they could count on to be clean, where the plumbing, the lights and phone would work and where the bed would not disable a fragile back or weary legs. They wanted something predictable. It seems clear that predictability is still the No. 1 requirement of people who must travel, as opposed to those who do it for fun, but Holiday Inns are no longer the only name on the highway. There is lots of competition, and the whole middle-priced category is in turn being pressed by all-suite hotels and by motels at the minimum-service level.
In selecting middle-priced places to test while I was on the road anyway, I shunned the old minimum-service motels because the variations there are less interesting: a meal usually means fast-food chain restaurants across the asphalt parking lot, the light bulbs are invariably dim and the pools dreary.
I stayed at the Courtyard by Marriott, the Comfort Suites, which was close to the San Francisco Airport, and at a Sleep Inn in North Carolina - Comfort Suites and Sleep Inns are both part of the Quality International organization - and at another breed of bed altogether, the Skytel in the Los Angeles Airport.
Skytel, to start with the unusual, is a hideaway in the Tom Bradley International Terminal departure level, next to the Air France counter. It has 13 rooms that are windowless versions of a Pullman roomette and bathroom, and they rent by the hour, not the day. A friend on her way to Tokyo who wound up frazzled after a trip from New York found this a place to change, lie down for an hour and take a shower. I went and rented a space for four hours to see how it was.
At the Skytel, execution is not so perfect as concept. The credit-card-operated phone over the bunk would not work with my card. I trotted to the front desk in my shorts and T-shirt and asked for help. A room across the hall was opened for me, and my card worked there, but this required transferring my notebooks. The fold-up table was stable and the plug for the laptop computer was in the right place, under the table. The lighting was good for work, and could be dimmed or put out completely. The bathroom had a shower, washbowl and toilet, mirror and hairdryer and thinnish towels. The bed was firm, with a little television set perched high above the foot.
When I wanted to go out to one of the airport concessions to get a takeout lunch, the clerk at the front desk, who is always there or is replaced by a security person, locked my room with my stuff in it so I could wander unencumbered. All in all, it beat the days of killing time in the newsreel theater.
The price for a half hour, really for a shower, is $9.95. The cost for one hour is $16, for two, $24, and on up to $47 for eight hours. Reservations are not needed, though if you plan to arrive at 10:30 P.M. or later you might want to book, Skytel says. Skytel: 213-417-0200.
The Courtyard by Marriott in Texas was a treat. The motels in this group - there are 140-odd now open - are built in urban areas, but near industrial parks and airports rather than in downtowns, with the expectation that business executives arrive by auto. I picked one of eight in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, across from the Texas Rangers stadium where, it developed, Nolan Ryan was about to pitch his 5,000th strikeout. The traffic jams for two nights were unspeakable; this, however, must be a once-in-a-lifetime hazard.
The motel folds a neat 42-seat restaurant into the lobby, anonymous but bright. The brief menu is Courtyard's solution to all midpriced motels' need to keep food costs down. There are no bellmen and there is no room service, but at the restaurant you can take out a choice of a few sandwiches, salads, snacks and desserts. Courtyard's rooms appeared to be identical, each with a sofa and a good desk with a light over it and a plug under it. The free newspaper was USA Today.
The regular nightly rate Sunday to Thursday at this Courtyard is $62 for one person and $72 for two; the corporate rate obtained by the travel agent who booked for me was $39. When I checked in, the clerk asked for a business card ''to be sure about the corporate rate.'' The weekend rate is $54 for one or two people. Courtyard by Marriott: 800-321-2211.
The Comfort Suites near the San Francisco Airport is wedged into a triangle bounded by heavily trafficked streets with names like Industrial Way. It operated a jitney to the airport and provided a list of nearby restaurants, plus the opportunity to ride the jitney to any of them, as a way to keep people fed in the middle of the industrial wasteland. The other solution was a free help-yourself breakfast laid out in the lobby, including breads, cereal and fruit and a microwave oven for instant hot cereal, as well as a free evening snack including soup. Beer and wine were in the minibars. In the courtyard were tables and a gas grill for those who brought their own food to cook; it was often used. There was no pool, but a well-used whirlpool tub in the yard.
The desk was solid, with a plug underneath, and a wall lamp over it. The Wall Street Journal and USA Today were both free. This room was listed at $78; I was charged the corporate rate of $67 a night. Comfort Suites: 800-221-2222. Sleep Inn in Salisbury, N.C., is one of only two in this category opened so far by Quality International; the other is in Nova Scotia. Originally, they were to be named McSleep, but this plan was turned aside when the hamburger chain with the same first syllable made legal noises.
Sleep Inns are being built by Quality International for the economy market, and my room at the first of these motels, opened this summer on I-84 is significantly smaller than the others I visited on this round. The company says the rooms are 70 percent of the size of an average hotel room.
However, it had the most advanced key system I have seen: once I used a credit card to check in, the credit card magnetic strip opened the outside door and my room door. Even when the power failed that night in Hurricane Hugo, this system worked.
The Sleep Inn has no restaurant and virtually no lobby. A 24-hour Denny's adjoins the motel, a common expedient in the minimum-service category.
There was no bathtub, only a shower - a glass-doored plastic capsule in the manner of ''2001''. The toilet-shower cubicle was shut off from the washbowl area with a sliding door, another space saver.
Two bars of soap constituted the amenities. The television had a VCR and films could be rented from a vending machine for $5.95. The rate at the Sleep Inn was $33 - for two in a room, $37. Sleep Inn: 800-221-2222.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); COFFEE (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY



38 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4, Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By CARL SOMMERS

 BODY:

Soccer Cup
Question: How can I get tickets to the World Cup soccer matches to be held in Italy next year? - R. G., Rochester, N.Y.
Answer: The World Cup is a 52-game tournament among 24 national teams, with the opening match and ceremony taking place June 8 in Naples and the finals July 8 in Rome. Preliminary matches will take place in Rome, Naples, Bari, Bologna, Genoa, Florence, Cagliari (Sardinia), Palermo, Udine, Turin, Milan and Verona. Which teams play where will be determined by a drawing Dec. 9. Tickets - though not for the opening match and the finals - are being sold at the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, which has branches in the United States in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angles, Miami and New York (25 West 51st Street, New York, N.Y.; 212-581-0710), but only a few tickets are reported remaining and some cities are sold out. Tickets must be bought for the series of three to five games to be played in a city. As an example, the best seats for the four games in Florence are $339; the least expensive seats there are $50. Tickets for the opening game ($14 to $103) and the finals ($21 to $162) will go on sale in December; the bank suggests calling in November to find out the date. 
International Sports Consultants (4 Skyline Drive, Downingtown, Pa. 19335; 800-331-5191 or 215-458-0392) sells a variety of tour packages that include reserved tickets to World Cup matches. Applicants can give choices of teams they wish to follow or cities in which they would like to see matches. One example includes seats for the opening match and for one (with a 7-night option, $3,014 to $4,304, depending on class of hotel chosen) or three (with a 15-night option, $3,796 to $6,516) first-round matches. For real fans, a 32-night package with tickets throughout the tournament are $6,384 to $12,365. The prices include economy round-trip air fare to Italy, transportation in Italy and daily breakfast. In all packages, there is an extra transportation charge for Cagliari or Palermo.
 
Orlando
Question: Are there any bed and breakfasts near Disney World and Epcot Center in Orlando, Fla? - S. L. S., New York, N.Y.
Answer: There are only a few bed and breakfast homes within 30 minutes of Disney World, and reservations are vital.
Bed & Breakfast of Orlando (8205 Banyan Boulevard, Orlando, Fla. 32819; 407-352-9157, after Nov. 18 407-870-8407) will direct visitors to three bed and breafast homes with rooms ranging from $50 to $70 a night.
Some other establishments include: The Allens (2411 Virginia Drive, Orlando, Fla. 32803) rent two rooms in their home for $45 a night for two people and $35 a night for one.
The Rinaldi House (502 Lake Avenue, Orlando) in the Lake Cherokee section, lets rooms for $47 for two and $39 for one person.
Norment-Parry Inn (211 North Lucerne Circle East, Orlando, Fla. 32801; 407-648-5188), with 21 rooms at $65 for two and $60 for one person, is more of an inn.
 
Route Numbers
Question: I read many years ago about a process by which Interstate highways are numbered. Do you know of such a system? - S. H. P., Brattleboro, Vt.
Answer: There is such a system. According to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, which is responsible for numbering Federal routes, here is how it works: Even-numbered highways run east and west and odd-numbered routes run north and south. With U.S. highways - not Interstates - principal east-west U.S. routes are given in multiples of 10 (the chief exception being U.S. 2), and the lower the number, the more northerly it is.
The principal U.S. highways running north and south end in the numeral 1, with the lower numbers most easterly. Thus, U.S. 1 runs along the East Coast and U.S. 101 along the West Coast. Connecting routes have three digits, the last two corresponding with the connecting main U.S. route. Hence U.S. 550 in Colorado connects with U.S. 50.
In the Interstate system, the lower the number of the even-numbered (east-west) route, the more southerly. Thus, Interstate 10, for example, runs between Florida and Arizona, while Interstate 94 goes between Michigan and Montana. The lower odd-numbered routes, which usually end with a 5, are in the west. Hence, I-5 runs through California, Oregon and Washington, while I-95 goes along the Eastern Seaboard.
Loops along the Interstate have three digits, beginning with an even number; the last two digits correspond to the Interstate with which the loop connects. Spurs also have three digits, which begin with an odd number, and the last two numbers correspond to the Interstate. Thus, 695 is a loop around Baltimore that reconnects with I-95, while 795 is a spur from 695.
 
Evaluating Cruises
Question: Is there a rating of cruise ships? - E. H. Verona, N.J.
Answer: There is no standard rating of cruise ships. However, some publications on cruising not only describe ships but rate them, however subjectively. Ships are continually being upgraded, though, and a listing that is not up to date may not reflect the ship's current state.
In the ''Berlitz Complete Book of Cruising'' (Macmillan, $13.95) the author, Douglas Ward, rates ships by stars, with five-plus the top. Additionally, he rates, on a scale of 100, 20 factors such as cleanliness, cuisine and cabin service, and in an introduction provides details on what the categories measure. He also gives an overall average numerical rating.
In ''Fielding's Worldwide Cruises,'' (William Morrow, $13.95) Antoinette DeLand gives ships ratings of up to five-plus stars, though she does not describe her criteria.
Each February, Ocean & Cruise News, a monthly publication from the World Ocean and Cruise Liner Society (Post Office Box 92, Stamford, Conn. 06904; 203-329-2787) publishes the results of a survey of the society's 5,000 members about cruises they took over the past year. Those surveyed give scores of up to 10 in 13 categories and an overall rating. But in the publication, ships are simply ranked with the highest-scoring first, and the actual scores are not provided. Annual subscription is $24 a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNL (MIL) (56%); BL (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); ROME, GA, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); NAPLES, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (56%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (86%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (85%); SPORTS BUSINESS (79%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AIR FARES (60%); 



39 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5061 words

HEADLINE: CRACK'S DESTRUCTIVE SPRINT ACROSS AMERICA

BYLINE: By Michael Massing; Michael Massing, a New York writer, is a 1989 Alicia Patterson Fellow.

 BODY:
AS BROADWAY CUTS UP through the Upper West Side of Manhattan and into Washington Heights, it gradually turns into a giant Caribbean bazaar. The avenue abounds with bodegas, farmacias, unisex beauty salons, bargain clothing outlets, restaurants serving pollo and platanos, and travel agencies offering bargains to the Dominican Republic. Women squeeze mangoes, children lick flavored ices, men play hard at dominoes, all to the accompaniment of a hundred different radios blaring salsa music. Long a magnet for immigrants, Washington Heights today is home to large colonies of Irish, Jews and, most numerous of all, Dominicans. As the ever-present crowds make their way up and down the street, the Heights seems a living embodiment of the American Dream - a vibrant, energetic urban melting pot. 
Wander off Broadway, though, and the neighborhood quickly seems like an American nightmare. On side streets in the 150's and 160's, clusters of tough teen-agers wearing beepers, four-finger gold rings and $95 Nikes offer $3 vials of crack, the high-octane, smokable derivative of cocaine. On every block there are four or five different ''crews,'' or gangs, each touting its own brand of the drug, known to aficionados as ''Scotty'' (as in ''Beam me up''). Some blocks are ''hotter'' than others, depending on the availability of the crack. On the hottest blocks Scotty is available ''24/7'' - 24 hours a day, seven days a week. So much business is transacted on these streets that Washington Heights has gained a reputation as the crack capital of America.
The experience of the Heights has been repeated in large cities throughout the country. And now, in smaller communities, too, crack is striking with swift fury, From rural woodlands to shady suburbs, prairie townships to Southern hamlets, no community seems immune. The roster of the infected reads like a roll-call of Middle America itself: Roanoke, Va.; Seaford, Del.; Sioux Falls, S.D.; Cheyenne, Wyo.; Sacramento, Calif.; Portland, Ore. Fort Wayne, Ind., once known as the City of Churches, is now home to an estimated 70 crack houses, causing law-enforcement personnel to christen it ''the crack capital of Indiana.''
How did it happen? How did a drug once confined to a handful of large-city neighborhoods make its way to Main Street in just a few short years? Much of the answer can be found in data generated by the Federal Government's unprecedented intelligence-gathering operation against crack. In 13 cities across the country, crack teams created over the last three years by the Justice Department are methodically tracking the importation, distribution and consumption of the drug. In New York, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (D.E.A.) operates a special Unified Intelligence Division staffed by experts from a dozen agencies, including the F.B.I., the I.R.S., Customs, Immigration and the local police department. Twenty-four hours a day, the information pours in - from wiretaps and surveillance teams, witnesses and informants, police raids and drug busts. By combining this data with testimony from D.E.A. agents, police captains, sociologists, undercover agents, community leaders, criminologists, prosecutors, addicts and treatment experts, it is possible to trace crack's destructive sprint across America.
WASHINGTON HEIGHTS HAS COME NATU-rally by its status as the nation's crack capital. It would be difficult to design a better location for marketing a new drug. First, the area is highly accessible. To the west, the George Washington Bridge brings in potential customers from New Jersey; to the north the Henry Hudson Parkway pulls them in from Westchester County. For residents of Passaic or Peekskill who want a quick high, the Heights offers easy-in, easy-out convenience. By all accounts, Washington Heights transacts more out-of-town drug deals than any other neighborhood in New York City.
The neighborhood itself provides a substantial pool of users. For every newcomer who has made it as a shopkeeper on Broadway, there are others who have dropped out of school, had a child out of marriage, become permanently unemployed -likely candidates for drug use. Here, as throughout the country, crack does best where Americans -especially minorities - do worst.
Finally, Washington Heights is home to New York's most enterprising drug dealers. No, they are not Colombians. Although most people associate Colombians with cocaine and crack - especially now that open warfare has broken out between the drug lords and the Government in Bogota - Colombians are not generally involved in the retailing of crack in the United States. They just produce cocaine in South America and smuggle it into the United States. The Colombians living in New York are too few in number and too insular to have the array of contacts necessary to move drugs on the street.
The Dominicans, New York's fastest-growing immigrant group, do have such contacts. They also have the marketing talent. Crack dealing, like more legitimate lines of work, requires the ability to exercise quality control, hire a dependable workforce and develop a steady clientele. At all of this, the Dominicans (only a small percentage of whom are involved in the drug trade) have had a lot of experience. In the Caribbean, they are known as merchants and tradesmen. In New York, they have applied their savvy to become highly successful shopkeepers - and the city's top crack traffickers.
ALTHOUGH CRACK'S ORIGINS RE-main obscure - no one really knows who invented it - the Dominicans are generally credited with having first developed it for a mass market. The breakthrough seems to have come about by accident, an improvised response to shifting consumer tastes. Until 1983, cocaine was used almost exclusively in powder form (known as cocaine hydrochloride). Extremely expensive, the drug was often consumed at parties and discos, where it was sprinkled on mirrors and snorted - usually through a high-denomination bill.
Gradually, though, many snorters, seeking a more intense high, turned to freebasing. This involved treating cocaine powder with ether and reducing it to a crystalline base, which, when smoked, produced a sharp, pleasurable rush. Unfortunately, freebasing was complicated and messy, the subject of instruction booklets running on for many pages. It was dangerous, too, risking explosions like the one that hospitalized the comedian Richard Pryor. To avoid the hassle, customers began demanding that their dealers convert the powder to freebase in advance.
This presented dealers with a dilemma. For, when cocaine is converted to freebase, it loses much of its weight. If they wanted to sell ready-made freebase at popular prices, dealers would have to absorb the loss - unless they could find an undetectable filler .
The search was on. One researcher who observed it was Terry Williams, a sociologist at the City University of New York who in 1982 began hanging out with a teen-age cocaine gang in Washington Heights. Williams, who recounts his experiences in a recently published book, ''The Cocaine Kids,'' recalls that the local Dominican gangs ''came up with something called 'comeback,' '' a chemical adulterant akin to lidocaine, a prescription anesthetic. ''When comeback is blended with cocaine powder and cooked, all of it remains in the mix,'' Williams explains. ''This became the first chemical that you could cut freebase with.'' The result was the prototype for crack.
Eventually dealers found other, less expensive substances that worked in conjunction with comeback. The cheapest and most effective was common baking soda. Formulas varied, but the typical instructions were as simple as a recipe out of ''The 60-Minute Gourmet'':
Take two ounces cocaine hydrochloride. Mix with two ounces comeback and one ounce Arm & Hammer. Add water. Bring to a boil. Let cool into a solid mass. Break into small pieces. Smoke. Intense rush should follow instantly. Serves 2,000.
Before long, Dominican dealers were out on the streets of Washington Heights peddling the new substance in pellet form at a few dollars a pop. (The name came from the crackling sound the drug made when smoked.) The ''champagne'' of drugs, once limited to the elite, was now available - somewhat diluted - to drifters and dropouts, welfare mothers and unemployed youths. Dealers set up shop across the street from schools, enticing teen-agers with free samples. They also offered two-for-one deals and ''Mother's Day'' specials timed to coincide with the arrival of welfare checks. Soon, customers were seeking out dealers rather than the other way around, helping establish Washington Heights as America's first major crack market.
The Dominicans then began fanning southward into Harlem and eastward into the South Bronx. They also began supplying cocaine to other ethnic groups. In Harlem, in South Jamaica, Queens, in the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Bushwick and Brownsville, poor young blacks - jobless, uneducated and desperate - hungered for a piece of the ''crazy money'' crack offered. To get started, it took as little as an ounce of cocaine, an investment of perhaps $1,000.
Obtaining it was not much of a problem. By the mid-1980's, cocaine was arriving in New York by the ton. Importation was controlled by the Cali Cartel, Colombia's second-largest syndicate, after the Medellin Cartel. Desperate to unload their supplies, the Colombians found dependable customers in the Dominicans of Washington Heights. The two groups got along well, joined not only by a common language but also by similar entrepreneurial values. The Dominicans became New York's chief middlemen. As sales boomed to aspiring young dealers outside Washington Heights, the city was eventually carved up along ethnic lines, with Dominican-supplied blacks controlling Harlem, Queens and Brooklyn, and the Dominicans dominant in upper Manhattan and the South Bronx.
FROM THE START, CRACK'S DISTRI-bution system distinguished it from all other drugs. Heroin, for instance, was highly centralized. From poppy cultivation to street sales, the trade was dominated by a single organization - the Mafia, which, though ruthless, imposed a certain order on the trade. Gang wars were rare, and police officers were never fired upon. Because distribution was so tightly controlled, it was possible, with diligent police work, to put an entire network out of business, as occurred in the French Connection case.
With crack, there could be no French Connection. In effect, it took the(Continued on Page 58) ''organized'' out of organized crime. ''The unique thing about crack is that for a relatively small investment you can buy some cocaine, convert it to crack in the kitchen, and begin distributing almost immediately,'' says John Featherly, staff coordinator of the D.E.A.'s cocaine section in Washington. ''This makes for a lot of entrepreneurs.''
If heroin was the Fortune 500, crack was Mom and Pop. A typical crack organization would have no more than seven or eight people - a street seller or two, a steerer to direct customers, a guard to protect the merchandise, a police lookout, a weigher (known as a ''scale boy''), a manager and a ''Mr. Big'' to count the profits. Competition was intense. In busy areas like Washington Heights, one block might host four or five crews, all contending for the same consumer dollar.
With no overall hierarchy or command structure to impose order, turf wars broke out over the most lucrative spots. Dealers regularly ripped off customers and stole from one another, leading to frequent shootouts, stabbings and executions. Crack created a new breed of urban guerrilla, members of a fierce, proliferating army that left the police badly outnumbered and outgunned.
By late 1985, when crack first came to the attention of the national press, it was deeply entrenched in New York's poor neighborhoods. In the rest of the country, only two cities - Los Angeles and Miami - had comparable crack problems. All three cities were major distribution points for cocaine, so it was natural that crack would engulf them first. Soon, however, the drug began to move out from these gateway cities and into the heartland. It would travel via a fearsome new set of traffickers - illegal immigrants from Jamaica - who would quickly and radically transform the way crack was distributed around the country.
DELROY EDWARDS GREW up poor in the tough, stifling shantytowns of Kingston, Jamaica. In 1980, at the age of 20, he went to work as a street enforcer for the Jamaica Labor Party of Edward Seaga. Seaga was locked in a bitter election duel with the People's National Party, headed by Michael Manley, and each side was forming armed gangs to intimidate the other. The gangs did their job only too well, killing 800 people by election day. After his victory, Seaga launched a crackdown, and many gang members, feeling the heat, headed for the United States. Among them was Delroy Edwards. Slipping into Brooklyn on a tourist visa, he eventually made his way into the marijuana business, selling nickel bags out of a neighborhood storefront.
At the beginning of 1985, Edwards learned to make crack. Soon he was selling little else. He worked out of two ''flagship'' spots in Brooklyn - one, a two-story house, the other, an abandoned brownstone near a housing project. Enough poor blacks coughed up enough $5 bills to enable Edwards to buy a $150,000 home on Long Island - and to pay for it in cash.
That wasn't enough for Edwards, who began looking to expand his business. Unfortunately, New York was already crowded with crack dealers; outside the city, however, lay plenty of virgin territory. In Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia, for instance, crack was just beginning to catch on. Enterprising local dealers would travel to New York, buy a few ounces of cocaine, return home, convert it into crack, and sell the product for three or four times the New York street price. In the fall of 1986, Edwards traveled to Washington and set up shop; by the following spring his lieutenants had established thriving businesses in Philadelphia and Baltimore as well. At its peak, Edwards's organization, known as the Rankers, employed 50 workers and made up to $100,000 a day.
The glory days did not last. Edwards - nicknamed ''Uzi'' for his taste in weapons -was pathologically violent. People who crossed him were pistol-whipped, beaten with baseball bats, shot in the legs. One 16-year-old worker, suspected of cheating, was beaten unconscious with bats, scalded with boiling water, and suspended by a chain from the ceiling until he died. Eventually, the police caught up with Edwards, and in July a Brooklyn jury convicted him on 42 counts of murder, assault, kidnapping and drug dealing. Edwards is now awaiting sentencing. The Rankers have disintegrated.
But there are 40 other groups just like the Rankers, running crack out of New York and Miami to points across the country. Posses, they're called, after their members' affection for American westerns (and the guns used in them). Most, like the Rankers, took shape as gangs during the 1980 Jamaican election, then fled to the United States and regrouped. Here, their 10,000 to 20,000 members, organized in posses with as few as 25 members and as many as several hundred, keep incessantly on the move, slipping in and out of the many Jamaican communities scattered across the country. To maintain loyalty, each posse generally restricts membership to the residents of a particular neighborhood in Kingston. Posse members travel with fake IDs, making it tough for policemen to identify them. Sometimes, as a cover, they attach themselves to reggae groups touring the country. Today, Jamaicans are believed to control 35 percent to 40 percent of the nation's crack network.
''They're very good businessmen,'' says John A. O'Brien, an agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (B.A.T.F.), the Federal agency that most closely monitors the posses. ''They follow the law of supply and demand. When they see that a vial of crack selling for $5 in New York will get $15 in Kansas City, they'll move in.'' New York is their ''training school,'' O'Brien says, ''like going to Wharton. They'll take a guy doing a good job in Harlem and send him to open an office in the Midwest.'' On his arrival in the new area, the posse sales rep will rent a motel room and conduct a market survey of sorts to determine the most lucrative spot in town. Then he'll rent an apartment or, better yet, get a single female to lend him one in return for crack.
When asked how the posses move the drug from city to city, Bill McMullan, the assistant special agent in charge of the D.E.A.'s Washington office, jokingly cites the title of a recent movie: ''Planes, Trains and Automobiles.'' Amtrak, Greyhound, commercial airlines, Federal Express, U.P.S. - the posses use them all, regularly.
To carry cocaine on commercial flights, the Jamaicans tend to recruit overweight women able to conceal one- or two-pound packages on their person. Also popular are rental cars, preferably Volvos, sent over the nation's highways, preferably Interstates. ''When I see some of the places the posses are operating, I can't find any other explanation than the presence of a nearby Interstate,'' says Stephen Higgins, the B.A.T.F.'s director in Washington.
In deciding where to strike, the Jamaicans generally follow the path of least resistance. Cities with well-organized criminal groups, such as Newark, St. Louis and Chicago, tend to get bypassed. At first glance, Chicago would seem to be an ideal posse target. It is a major transportation hub, has a vast inner-city population and offers block upon block of public housing projects, a favorite crack target. But Chicago also has plenty of established homegrown gangs doing a brisk business in cocaine and heroin. Intent on protecting their trade, they have worked determinedly to keep outside traffickers from entering. ''When crack first appeared, some groups did try to come here and stake out some territory, but they quickly left,' '' says Vincent Lang, chairman of the Chicago Housing Authority. ''They wanted to remain alive.'' Today Chicago is awash in powder cocaine, but crack is very hard to find. Perhaps wary of the anarchic market forces crack has unleashed elsewhere, local dealers have opted out of selling it themselves.
In other cities, dealers tend to be too weak and disorganized to stand up to the posses and their tactics. The Jamaicans are fanatics for weapons. Taking advantage of lax gun laws in Texas, Florida and Virginia, they have stockpiled Uzis and AR-13 assault rifles. When breaking into a new area, the Jamaicans come in with all barrels blazing. ''One cause of the violence we're seeing in many cities is Jamaican traffickers pushing out American blacks,'' says Jonny Frank, a prosecutor in the Delroy Edwards case.
According to the B.A.T.F., the posses have been responsible for approximately 1,000 murders since 1985. Washington, Philadelphia, Dallas, Houston, Kansas City, Denver - all have suffered Jamaican invasions. In New York, the posses have succeeded in taking over much of Brooklyn and Harlem, establishing themselves as the city's second largest traffickers, after the Dominicans.
Many smaller cities have been hit, too. New York-based posses have set up a thriving operation in Hartford, shipping their merchandise there via bus and train. In New York State, the Jamaicans are moving crack up Interstate 87, hitting such tiny Hudson Valley towns as Newburgh, Kingston and Saratoga Springs. In West Virginia, the posses have established crack houses in Martinsburg (population 13,000) and Charles Town (3,000). From there they have moved out along Interstate 81, shipping crack as far north as Chambersburg, Pa., and as far south as Roanoke, Va.
Roanoke! It would be hard to imagine a more unlikely setting for crack. A town of only 90,000, Roanoke is nestled in the heart of Virginia's dairy and orchard country, several hours' drive from the nearest city. Yet members of the Shower posse, the largest in the country, have managed to find their way there from New York.
On closer examination, though, the presence of crack in Roanoke is really not so surprising. Even towns with Norman Rockwell-like reputations have pockets of alienation and despair, open sores in which crack can take hold and fester. Roanoke has its own modest ghetto, beset by the same social ills afflicting larger cities. ''We have a sizable minority community, and that's where the Jamaicans set up,'' observes Tom Bondurant, an assistant United States attorney in Roanoke. Demand was obviously high: crack was selling for $25 to $30 a vial - more than enough to catch the attention of big-city traffickers.
Roanoke's case is typical. Across the country, crack has displayed remarkable consistency, taking root in those sectors of society least able to resist it. In places like Charles Town, Newburgh, and even Fort Wayne, Ind., crack has found a foothold among poor blacks and - to a far lesser degree - Hispanics.
Will it stay that way? Or will crack break out like some threatening contagion into the middle-class population, white and black? In some places, it already has. In Washington - the city with the nation's highest rate of drug-related violence -crack has leaped across the city lines into the middle-class suburbs of Maryland and Virginia. Until June 1988, for instance, crack was virtually unknown in Howard County, a tranquil, middle-class area midway between Washington and Baltimore; today the drug is being distributed in 20 locations, including some attractive town houses.
Dr. Mark F. Gold, the director of research at Fair Oaks Hospital in New Jersey and the founder of the national ''800-COCAINE Helpline,'' detects a subtle shift in the profile of America's crack users. Until recently, he says, virtually all of those calling in to seek help with crack were young inner-city residents, poor and unemployed. Today, they remain the most common users, but, Gold says, ''crack appears to be making some inroads into suburban and rural America. I now get many calls from the Sunbelt, whereas before I didn't.'' Gold, a member of William Bennett's kitchen cabinet, says that the nation has reached a ''turning point. Whether crack expands and changes the typical crack user or not, only time will tell.''
TodAY'S REALITY, meanwhile, is most visible in Kansas City, Mo. A year ago, the city was declaring victory in the war on crack. A Federal organized-crime task force had succeeded in dismantling a thriving crack operation run by the Waterhouse posse. Working out of a fortresslike house in the heart of the inner city, the Jamaicans had employed an estimated 1,000 people at one point. Demand was so great that the posse had had to import Jamaicans from New York and Miami. This proved to be its undoing. The new workers felt little loyalty to the group, and, when arrested, tended to talk, providing the task force with invaluable information. In late 1986, the Feds struck, raiding ghetto crack houses and rounding up dealers. Eventually, 178 traffickers were prosecuted and 25 more deported. By the start of 1987, no more than 75 posse members remained in town. Across the nation, Kansas City was hailed as a stunning success story.
The sense of triumph was short-lived, however. ''A year ago, we were really feeling good about the successes we had had,'' says the first assistant United States attorney Rob Larsen, who directed the task force from 1983 to 1987. ''Then the L.A. gangs began arriving.''
Los Angeles's black street gangs are the fastest-growing set of crack traffickers in the country. Already they have established a national network second only to that of the posses. They are grouped into confederations known as the Bloods and the Crips, each with its own color (blue for Crips, red for Bloods), slang and hand signals. Fiercely territorial, the gangs have traditionally concentrated on fighting one another over impoverished patches of south-central Los Angeles.
Crack has changed that. Sensing the enormous profit potential in the drug, the Bloods and the Crips are now paying less attention to one another and more to transporting crack. Today, more than 10,000 gang members are at work in some 50 cities from Seattle to Baltimore. Generally, they emulate the tactics of the posses, infiltrating black communities by working through local contacts. So far, the gangs and the posses have avoided fighting one another. In fact, they seem to be dividing up the country between them -the gangs working eastward from California, the posses westward from New York. The two national networks are gradually crisscrossing - with devastating consequences for towns caught in the middle.
Thus, in Kansas City, when the crackdown on the posses created a vacuum, the Bloods and Crips quickly filled it. Today, crack is just as plentiful in the city as it had been before the Waterhouse roundup. Meanwhile, the Waterhouse posse, routed from Kansas City, is beginning to resurface in Des Moines and Omaha -even across the river in Kansas City, Kan. ''It was a startling experience'' says Larsen. ''Nobody feels like we're making any substantial progress at all.'' Crack, he adds ruefully, ''is a very difficult thing for law enforcement to deal with.''
Indeed, even if the posses and L.A. gangs were somehow tamed - an extremely unlikely prospect - there are plenty of other groups ready to take their place. Both Cubans and Guyanese have established fledgling interstate operations, while Haitian traffickers based in Fort Pierce, Fla., are transporting crack along the East Coast, via migrant farm workers. In Miami, Detroit and countless smaller cities across the country, local black rings are at work, looking intently for opportunities to expand.
Not everyone has lost hope. Robert M. Stutman, special agent in charge of the D.E.A.'s field office in New York, points to a natural selection process taking place in the crack trade, with smaller organizations gradually being absorbed by larger ones. ''The crack business is becoming more highly organized, more like heroin,'' says Stutman. In New York, he observes, ''crack is now controlled by a finite number of groups. That was not true two years ago.'' The effect, he says, is to provide law-enforcement officials with a ''more discernible target.''
Stutman cites a Dominican organization in Washington Heights that, in three short years, went from being street-corner peddlers to becoming a multitier conglomerate selling more than 10,000 vials of crack a day. The group was so well organized that it marketed its crack under a brand name (''Based Balls''). Such practices eventually attracted the attention of the D.E.A., which, after an intensive investigation, put the group out of business.
Unfortunately, the D.E.A.'s efforts had little effect on the supply of crack in New York - the usual outcome of law-enforcement action aimed at the drug. No matter how determined the effort to root it out, crack seems always to thrive. That has been the experience in Kansas City. In Brooklyn, crack continues to sell for $3 a vial despite the prosecution of Delroy Edwards. In Washington, the police recently seized Rayful Edmond 3d, allegedly the city's largest dealer, but crack remains available in 120 locations throughout town. ''Right after we locked up Edmond, the homicide rate slowed down for a while,'' says Collin Younger, commander of the narcotics branch of the D.C. police. ''Now it's beginning to pick up again as other dealers fight over his territory.'' Crack is getting so plentiful in the District of Columbia that Younger expects the price to drop any day now.
As if crack weren't enough to contend with, a new drug has recently appeared on the horizon. Called ice, it is a smokable version of methamphetamine, or speed. It creates a high that lasts for up to 24 hours, compared with crack's 20-minute high, followed by a ''crash'' so severe that it can resemble paranoid schizophrenia.
President Bush's anti-drug strategy, unveiled on Sept. 5, calls for a heavy reliance on police and prosecutors. Fully 70 percent of its projected $7.9 billion spending will go for law enforcement, including $1.6 billion for new prisons and $3.1 billion for state and local police. The remaining 30 percent will go toward treatment, prevention and education.
Judging from the record of the police to date, though, the Bush plan seems unlikely to make any real dent in the amount of crack on the streets. A sense of resignation is settling over America's drug agents. More and more of them are beginning to sound like Francis Hall. For four years, until his retirement in March, Hall served as commanding officer of the New York Police Department's narcotics division, making him, in effect, New York's top narc. Hall helped design the Tactical Narcotics Teams (T.N.T.) -the special police units that carry out sweeps through drug-infested neighborhoods - that today are the city's principal weapon in the fight against drugs.
Looking back over his four years on the front lines, Hall compares the war on crack to another conflict. ''Drug enforcement,'' he says, ''is like the Vietnam War. In Vietnam, we underestimated the number of Vietcong and their will to fight. We appear to be doing the same thing with street-level drug traffickers.'' Noting that the staff of the narcotics division has increased from 525 in 1985 to 2,000 today, Hall observes, ''It's like Westmoreland asking Washington for two more divisions. We lost the Vietnam War with a half-million men. We're doing the same thing with drugs.''
The Vietnam analogy might be taken a step further. The Vietcong grew largely because of the social, political and economic breakdown engulfing Vietnam. No matter how much firepower the United States expended, the guerrillas always managed to regroup, nurtured by the poverty and injustice around them. Much the same is true of crack in America. No matter how many sweeps, raids and busts our police departments mount against crack traffickers, they always manage to resurface. Only when we address the conditions that have given rise to crack - the desperation of our inner cities - will we begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel.

GRAPHIC: Two photos show a dealer selling Crack near the Florida A&M University in Tallahassee, Florida. 1988. (MARK WALHEISER/TALLAHASSEE DEMOCRAT)(pg.38); A woman on New York's Upper West Side smoking crack. (MERRY ALPERN)(PG.39); Crack use in Anchorage, Alaska. 1987. (AL GRILLO/PICTURE GROUP), An addict displays rocks of Crack valued in Talahassee, Florida at $10 (left) and $20. 1988 (MARK LHEISER/TALAHASSEE DEMOCRAT)(pg. 40); Kansas City, Missouri police make arrests at a suspected ''crack house''in the Swope Park area where the police saw as many as 52 cars stop in an hour. October 1988.(JOHN SLEEZER/KANSAS CITY TIMES)(pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (79%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORT WAYNE NEWSPAPERS (52%); FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (59%); FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (59%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; CRACK (COCAINE); COCAINE; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE COCAINE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CHILDREN (77%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); GANGS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); RELIGION (70%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (57%); 

PERSON: MASSING, MICHAEL



40 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 96, Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: ANSWERS TO THE QUIZ ON PAGE 106

 BODY:
1-L: Vienna. The headdress, in the Ethnological Museum, was acquired by Cortez and passed into Hapsburg hands, probably through Charles V.
2-A and B: Vevey, Switzerland, and London. The Vevey statue of Charlie Chaplin stands on the Quai Perdonnet in what is now the Square Chaplin. The Chaplin statue that usually stands in London's Leicester Square is in storage at present. 
3-H: Santa Rosalia, Baja California Sur, Mexico. The church of Santa Barbara was shipped to Santa Rosalia and reassembled there in the early 1920's.
4-C and E: Seville, Spain, and Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. The cathedrals of both Seville and Santo Domingo contain Columbus's tomb and claim his remains. A compromise attribution awards some of the navigator's bones to each.
5-I: Wellesley, Mass. The door, through which Elizabeth Barrett eloped with Robert Browning, is installed outside the special collections room of the Wellesley College Library.
6-K: Cologne, Germany. A pair of flattened bottles, transformed into sandals by the addition of delicate glass straps, were found by chance in a Roman grave in 1971. They may be seen in the Romisch-Germanisches Museum.
7-B: London. The embalmed body of Jeremy Bentham, an economic and political philosopher (1748-1832), is seated in a glass case outside the office of the provost of University College London; the head is wax.
8-S: Cairo. The Champs de Mars, originally in Brussels, is now installed in the Nile Hilton. Its original decor includes paintings of Egyptian scenes. 9-N: Dijon, France. The Hotel Terminus on the Avenue Marechal Foch has four rooms with four taps each: Hot, Cold, Red and White. The ordinaire flows in July and August, or when a guest requests the service in advance.
10-P: Ravenna, Italy. During World War II, Dante's remains were removed from their tomb in the Church of San Francesco and buried a short distance away. They were returned to the tomb in 1945, but the tumulus that gave them temporary shelter still stands.
11-Q: Bermuda. The bridge connects Bermuda's main island with Somerset Island; the segment that can be lifted to let the masts of sailboats pass through is 14 inches wide. It is now disused, except as a tourist attraction.
12-B: London. Canova's heroic statue of the emperor is installed in the Wellington Museum, Apsley House. Napoleon posed only for the head.
13-J: Brussels. The Maison du Roi contains hundreds of costumes for the Mannekin Pis, Brussels's civic mascot, among them a jeweled jumpsuit a la Elvis and a Mickey Mouse outfit.
14-M: Herrenchiemsee, Germany. Mad King Ludwig visited Versailles, then improved upon it in his island castle.
15-G: Tokyo. The Japanese version, which belongs to the Nippon Television City Corporation, is more than 40 feet taller than the original.
16-T: Zurich. An outdoor chessboard is set in the Lindenhof, next to the Grossmunster. The kings are nearly two feet tall.
17-D: Boston. The interior courtyard of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is composed of bits and pieces of 15th- and 16th-century palazzi, including the marble balconies.
18-O: Mulhouse, France. The two Royales are the Parkward and the Coupe Napoleon, which was the designer's own car; all are parked in the Musee National de l'Automobile.
19-F: Leningrad. The people of the lower Amur River region of Siberia make clothing from the skins of halibut, pike, lampreys and other fish. Examples are to be found in the Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography.
20-R: Washington, D.C. Neither rain nor sleet could stop Owney, who hitched his way around the world with the United States mail. He is in the Smithsonian Institution, stuffed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BERMUDA (91%); SWITZERLAND (88%); MEXICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); EGYPT (71%); UNITED STATES (71%); GERMANY (70%); ITALY (69%); SPAIN (57%); FRANCE (55%); 

STATE: ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (53%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); CAIRO, EGYPT (69%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NILE HILTON HOTEL (54%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); LIBRARIES (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); WORLD WAR II (62%); 

PERSON: CHARLIE CHAPLIN (73%); 



41 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 23, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY: Downtown Brooklyn;
Metrotech's Start Signals a Neighborhood Comeback

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
AFTER years of delays, the steel frame now rising for the first building in Metrotech, a $1 billion office and academic complex in Brooklyn, is just one sign that the ambitious plan of city officials and private developers to remake downtown Brooklyn is finally under way.
In another project four blocks from the 16-acre Metrotech site, which will get 4.3 million square feet of commercial space by the time it is completed in the mid-90's, a start is imminent, city officials say, on Livingston Plaza, a 500,000-square-foot office building. That structure is another key component of the effort to turn a seedy section of Brooklyn into the city's third major office center, after midtown and the financial district in Manhattan.
Frank Marino, a spokesman for the city's Public Development Corporation, the project's sponsor, said the New York City Transit Authority is expected to take space in the 12-story structure planned for a city-owned site at Livingston Street and Boerum Place.Charles Steven Cohen, president of Cohen Brothers Realty Corporation, which is building Livingston Plaza in partnership with Starrett Housing Corporation, said they are in the final stages of lease negotiations for the project. 
A further sign of commercial development activity in Brooklyn is the renovation and expansion of a seven-story, 420,000-square-foot former candy factory on Fulton Street and Hudson Avenue. The Ratner Group and Forest City Enterprises, the private development company that joined with Polytechnic University and the city to build Metrotech and expand the university, will upgrade the building for office tenants. In addition to the gut renovation of the building, the owners plan to add as much as 380,000 square feet atop the structure, which is just three blocks from the Metrotech site.
But movement on these three projects is offset by delays that have plagued the two other urban renewal projects that figure in the master plan for downtown Brooklyn.
Last month, American International Group, an insurance company based in Manhattan, backed away from its tentative agreement to take about 500,000 square feet in the office building in Rennaissance Plaza, which is to include a hotel and 30-story office building that is to rise above the Brooklyn Civic Center parking garage on Jay Street. Patrick J. Foley, vice president and associate general counsel for A.I.G., would say only that the company had decided it was not in its best interest to make the move.
The pullout left the developer, the Muss Development Company of Forest Hills, Queens, looking for a major tenant for the 700,000 square feet of office space to be built there.
Also stalled is Atlantic Center, a $530 million mixed-use development to be built in an area south of Fort Greene Park that got a green light from the Board of Estimate more than two years ago. It has been delayed by legal challenges.
In all, four suits attack the project, which is to combine two office towers, low-rise condominiums with 640 apartments for middle-income families, retail space and a multiscreen movie theater. The suits allege that the project threatens air quality, will significantly increase traffic congestion and through ''secondary displacement'' will drive low-income people from the now economically and racially integrated neighborhoods nearby.
''I can't predict when we will get started,'' said Daniel Rose, president of Rose Associates, the center's developer, who maintains that none of the suits has merit. ''These matters have been before the courts for what seems like an interminable period and I am sorry to say that we have made no progress in trying to find solutions in court or out of court.''
Russell Engler, director of the housing law unit of the South Brooklyn Legal Services, the nonprofit organization that has filed two of the four suits - one in State Supreme Court, the other in Federal Court - sees a long struggle ahead.
''We lost the environmental quality issues case in State Supreme Court late last year,'' said Mr. Engler. ''But we have filed an appeal to the Appellate Division. In both suits, it is very likely that the appeal process will be exhausted because these issues are so crucial to the future of the neighborhood.''
Mr. Engler said that the Federal suit, which contends that the Atlantic Center plan violates the Federal Fair Housing Act, is still in the discovery phase of pretrial work.
Metrotech, which faced similar but less-complicated suits, was able to break ground after reaching an out-of-court settlement last December with a coalition of residents and business owners in the development area who were trying to block that project.
''I have no doubt that this area will be redeveloped,'' said Mr. Rose. ''But there is a new wind blowing in development that points to the difficulty of building projects in an urban setting today.''
Brokers say that while these delays and the glut of office space in Manhattan have made large-space users skittish about downtown Brooklyn, despite the considerable economic incentives made available by the city, demand for existing space is strong.
''The deals that have been made recently are not the kinds that make headlines,'' said Albert Gottlieb, a senior vice president of William A. White/Grubb & Ellis, a real estate brokerage company. ''But what is significant and also a good sign for the future is that these owners did not have to make special deals to get the tenants. The leases were for the mid to high $20's, which is at the top of the market in Brooklyn.''
Among the tenants that signed new leases in Brooklyn are the Internal Revenue Service, which has taken 74,000 square feet for 350 auditors and field agents in the Williamsburgh Bank building at One Hanson Place, and the U.S. Administrative Law Judges and Crossland Savings Bank on Montague Street, which have taken a total of 26,000 square feet in an office building at 200 Montague Street.
These are the sorts of tenants that Forest City had in mind when it bought the former Barton's candy factory on Fulton Street.
''With this project we are broadening our base,'' said Bruce Ratner, a principal of both Forest City Enterprises and The Ratner Group. ''What we learned from our experience at Pierrepont Plaza was that there is a market for space that is cheaper than the brand new space. We turned away potential tenants who could not afford that expensive a building, but who really wanted to be in Brooklyn. So our objective is to have available different types of space for different users.''
Forest City and the Ratner Group were the developers of Pierrepont Plaza, a 19-story building at Pierrepont Street and Cadman Plaza that opened last year with Morgan Stanley, the financial services giant, as the anchor tenant. Mr. Ratner said leases have been signed for about 60 percent of the office and technological space in Metrotech, including Securities Industry Automation Corporation, the Chase Manhattan Bank and Brooklyn Union Gas Company.
The cost of space in the former candy factory, which underwent a modest conversion to an office building a few years ago, will begin in the low $20's per square foot, which is about 20 percent below the rents in leases signed so far for new buildings.
The tan-brick building, where model offices have been built, will be outfited with new plumbing, electrical, heating and air-conditioning systems as well as new windows and elevators. Tenants are also being sought for up to 50,000 square feet of retail space on the street level.

GRAPHIC: Former Barton's candy factory at 625 Fulton Street is being renovated for office space; steel skeleton of first building at Metrotech Center rising on Myrtle Avenue (The New York Times/Barton Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); FCEB (NYSE) (54%); FCEA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (68%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (68%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (54%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (54%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: STARRETT HOUSING CORP (68%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROTECH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; LIVINGSTON PLAZA (BKLYN, NY)

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); APPROVALS (77%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); LAWYERS (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (51%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (51%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (50%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G



42 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:

Maintenance Deduction
Question: My husband and I recently purchased a co-op apartment. When we were shown the apartment the realtor gave us written information, which we still have, stating that the maintenance was 60 percent tax deductible. When we had our income taxes done by our accountant recently he told us that the records provided by the building's management company showed that the maintenance is only 47 percent tax deductible. With maintenance in this building so high, this error makes a significant difference to us. Is the agent or anyone liable for this error? . . . C. F., Hartsdale, N.Y.
Answer: It is not likely that the sales agent or anyone, such as the sponsor, is liable for this discrepancy. According to Howard Schechter, a lawyer who specializes in real estate, contracts used in the sale of most apartments include warnings to buyers not to rely on information -like marketing material - not included in the contract when making their commitment to buy. 
''These are the kinds of things that buyers should should verify beforehand,'' he said ''Marketing information is often based on estimations.''
Mr. Schechter said that if the deductibility of the maintenance was a critical factor in your decision to buy, you should have asked to see the co-op's most recently audited financial statement. It would include the real estate taxes and mortgage interest paid by the co-op, which could have been used to make a more accurate calculation of what portion of the maintenance was deductible for income-tax purposes.
 
Terrace Solarium
Question: I have made a deposit on a condominium in Manhattan with a 400-square-foot terrace. After I take ownership I would like to build an enclosed glass solarium on the terrace, which is adjacent to the living room. How can I find out if this can be done? . . . M. D., Manhattan.
Answer: The Department of Buildings will be your source of information. According to Vahe Tiryakian, a spokesman for the agency, your ability to build the glass enclosure will depend on several factors, including the zoning, the amount of area the structure will cover and its size and whether it will be an expansion of a room or the addition of a room. In any case, your first step would be to hire an architect or licensed engineer to study these issues and file plans with Department of Buildings.
 
Records of the Past
Question: In 1981, I bought a house consisting of five residential units and an office. Recently, the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal requested a copy of the certificate of occupancy. This was promptly sent. I then received a letter saying that this was not sufficient and they wanted records back to 1954 when they believe the house was renovated from a six-unit residence. The Department of Buildings has told my lawyer that a C. of O. was not issued at the time the renovations were made, but in 1974. The agency still wants past documents. Am I responsible for documents issued before I owned the building? . . . S. F., Manhattan
Answer: Yes. Your liability does not stop with the date of purchase. When an owner buys property he assumes responsibility for the records and documents as well as any problems. This is why prospective buyers pay to have documents, like property titles, searched, before buying. According to Thomas R. Viola, a spokesman for the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, if the agency needs more information or documentation on previous renovations done on your property, it is your responsibility as the owner to provide them. You should be able to trace the history back to the construction date.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); ZONING (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (76%); SALES FORCE (75%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (71%); LAWYERS (70%); AUDITS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 



43 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2044 words

HEADLINE: The Graying of America's Countryside

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
WHEN Helen Augelli retired as the principal's secretary at Newtown, Conn., High School in 1986, she and her husband, Joseph, moved to Kitty Hawk on the North Carolina Outer Banks. They had summered there for years, bought a building lot a few years ago, and when the time came, moved into their beach house to stay.
So did Perry Ayscue, who was her partner recently in a puzzle-making session at Dare County's impressive new community center for retirees. He came from Staunton, Va., while Herb Barr retired to Dare County from the bookkeeping department at what was called United States Steel Corporation, since renamed USX Corporation, in Pittsburgh.
''We wanted to get away from cities,'' Mrs. Augelli said. ''We liked it here because there's no pollution, the cost of living isn't as high and it's halfway between Florida and Connecticut. We think it's perfect.'' 
What Mrs. Augelli and her friends on the Outer Banks of North Carolina have in common with hundreds of thousands of other retired Americans, according to the Federal Department of Agriculture, is that they chose a rural county, rather than such established urban retirement centers as Miami, San Diego or Honolulu, as the place to spend their leisure years.
Using Census Bureau figures, the department classifies as a non-metropolitan retirement county one in which at least 15 percent of population growth was due to the arrival of people 60 years old or older. The agency counts 487 rural retirement counties among the country's total of 3,107 counties. It is studying such retirement patterns for clues to potential benefits for depressed rural economies, such as solutions to the problem of dwindling farm employment. But a heavy influx of retired people can have unwanted side effects, too.
Sullivan County, in the Catskill Mountains, is New York's prime rural retirement county, Connecticut has none and New Jersey used to have two - Cape May and Ocean - but the Department of Agriculture recently reclassified them as urban.
Because so many summer-home owners end up moving to Sullivan County permanently when their working years end, the county grew in population by 23 percent between 1970 and 1980, for example, with 23.2 percent of that growth due to the arrival of people 60 years old or older, from outside the county, according to the Census Bureau.
From 1980 to 1988, the county population increased by 10 percent, to 71,700, and although hard numbers on the influx of retirees will not be available until the census next year, county officials attribute a quarter of that growth to them, meaning that overall growth is slowing while retirement growth is holding steady.
IN choosing the countryside, the retirees have a far greater impact on the lives and jobs of their new rural neighbors than they would if they had added their numbers to a big and economically diverse urban setting.
For example, rural retirees drive up property prices rapidly and often bring a new slant to local municipal priorities, attaching more importance, municipal officials say, to things that have high priority among the aged, like street lighting and sidewalks, than, for example, to a new high school basketball court.
What jobs they create are in the service industries, not the better-paying manufacturing and technical employment that isolated counties usually covet. In fact, by simultaneously driving up land and housing prices and aging the population, some experts believe, the arrival of a large retirement population in a sparsely populated county tends to discourage industrial development, whose entrepreneurs prefer low land costs and a young work force. This, of course, means fewer ratables and higher residential property taxes.
But the retirees' Social Security checks and company pensions help provide a steady inflow of money into rural counties, helping buffer the local economy against depressions in agricultural prices. Moreover, retirees are also prolific volunteers, donating their time and skills to local education, libraries, community centers and fund-raising. And they put no additional demands on what is by far the biggest part of any county's budget - local classrooms.
Nina Glasgow, a senior research associate at Cornell University who has made a specialty of rural retirement migrations, said that for many counties, the retirees started coming just in time.
''My research shows that nonmetropolitan retirement counties continued to grow in both population and employment during the 1980's,'' she said, ''and this is at a time when much of rural America has been in a state of economic decline and a net out-migration of people. The retirement counties have been very conspicuous in their population expansion, and some people have been writing about nonmetro retirement counties as the growth industry of the 80's and 90's.''
Several states have developed economic development plans aimed at attracting retirees the way other states court defense installations or automobile plants. Backed by real estate and construction lobbies, Idaho, Arkansas and Alabama promote rural retirement in hopes the newcomers will soak up some of their surplus vacation homes and help diversify struggling agriculture-based economies.
In New York State, where there are 57 counties outside New York City, Schoharie, in the northern Catskills, and Yates, in the Finger Lakes region, are, with Sullivan, the only U.S.-classified rural retirement counties drawing large numbers of retirees, according to the Census Bureau. Greene County, midway between New York City and Albany, was listed as a rural retirement county in 1980 but has since been reclassified by the Census Bureau as urban.
In Colorado, Grand County is drawing retirees into an important fruit-growing district with bargain housing left over from the collapse of the shale oil boom of the late 70's.
Dare County, site of the Wright Brothers' National Memorial at Kill Devil Hills, registered some of the highest rates of retirement immigration in the country between 1970 and 1980, when 69 percent of a 91 percent population increase consisted of people more than 60 years old.
Today, pending the latest Census Bureau figures, officials estimate the county's over-65 population at 33 percent, compared with 12.3 percent for the country as a whole.
Although beach properties on the Outer Banks are still almost laughably inexpensive by the standards of Long Island or the Jersey Shore, housing prices have more than doubled in this decade, Dare County officials say, and the children of longtime residents feel the effect.
''I think we have been pretty successful in diversifying our economy with tourism and retirement,'' said Raymond P. Surza 2d, Dare County's planning director, ''but a byproduct of this is a housing market that is so expensive that 90 percent of the local people can't afford to buy.''
''The market for the retirement homes is oriented toward the Northeast corridor, and that means the retired military personnel, government people, people from union shops that pay high wages, and the disparity is so great that local people can't afford to pay $150,000 for a 3,000-square-foot cottage.''
WHEN amenities such as waterfront properties are scarce, the planner went on, they are quickly picked up by the highest bidder.
''That marina where our fishermen used to tie up their boats has been sold to a developer for condos,'' Mr. Sturza said. ''Now pleasure boats are tied up at rents the fishermen can't afford.''
For real estate brokers and developers, the higher prices are good news, and James Strong, who operates Southern Shores Realty, in the village of Southern Shores just north of Kitty Hawk, said that the retirees follow a familiar pattern of first coming to visit, then staying.
''Right now most of our sales are to people who are planning to retire down here in a few years,'' he said. ''They come down from New York or Washington and buy a place, they rent it out for a few years to get some help with the mortgage, and then they move in and stay.'' Oceanfront houses, most of them two-story, four bedroom models on half-acre lots in Kill Devil Hills, Kitty Hawk and Nags Head on the Outer Banks, are on the market for under $300,000, and houses on Albemarle Sound, on the western shore of the Outer Banks, are going for $100,000 less than that.
A glance at the distribution of rural retirement counties shows them concentrated where one would expect retireees to go - near water or in areas of special natural beauty.
The rural retirement counties hug the two coasts, spread up and down the Alleghenies, the Ozarks into the Texas Plains, arc around the southern rim of the Rockies and dot the shoreline counties of the upper Great Lakes states.
Ruth and Orville Hawes retired to Livingston Manor in Sullivan County almost nine years ago, when Mr. Hawes's doctor told him the mountain air would be better for his emphysema than the traffic and industry of West Haven, Conn.
Their daughter had a summer home in the area, and when Mr. Hawes retired from his work as a roofer and steeplejack, he and his wife paid $50,000 to buy and fix up a two-bedroom house on a half acre at the end of a quiet street.
''I HAD pretty much dropped out of things with the idea that once we came to the rural country I would retire and just enjoy nature,'' said Mrs. Hawes, who is 76 years old. ''But that lasted about two months.''
Mrs. Hawes did what many retirees, more than most other citizens, have the time to do: She got involved in politics. She lobbied the state for more funds for the Community General Hospital in Harris and for a room tax on visitors to the Catskills' resorts to increase funds for social programs. And she monitored the county's tax re-evaluation to keep newcomers from being burdened with higher bills than long-time residents.
''Older people are becoming much more active politically in this county,'' said James Galligan, director of the Sullivan County Office for the Aging. ''They are better organized, they are better educated than retired people used to be, they have a little more money and a lot more time.''
Ms. Glasgow said her research at Cornell indicated that teachers' salaries tend to lag in counties where retirees constitute a high percentage of the general population and that expenditures on health care correspondingly increase.
In North Carolina, Dare County also responded to pressure from the elderly newcomers in building the $800,000 Thomas A. Baum Center to house activities for the county's burgeoning elderly population.
The retirees are similarly leading a fight against offshore oil drilling and in favor of stricter growth controls, along with lesser demands they make on county government officials in Manteo, the county seat.
''A lot of our visitors enjoy it here so much because of the quiet and the open land,'' said Terry L. Wheeler, the acting county manager. ''But the moment they retire and move in to stay they discover that they don't have sidewalks, they don't have streetlights, they don't have a hospital and they want to know why.''
Mrs. Hawes, in Sullivan County, conceded that elderly retired rural voters have special concerns. But, she said, she and her fellow retirees strive to interest themselves in issues that go beyond the traditional concerns of the aged in health and social services.
And in following their daughter to the Catskills, the Haweses followed a pattern that seems to work both ways in retirement counties, with children following parents or the other way around, resulting in multi-generational moves into the countryside.
After Mr. and Mrs. Augelli retired to Dare County from Newtown, for example, one of their daughters bought a condominium nearby and another acquired a building lot. Then a niece moved down from the Berkshires in Massachussetts, and then her brother from Danbury, Conn., also bought a vacation/retirement condo.
Mr. Strong, the real estate broker, said it was a familiar pattern, often led by parents moving in to retire and having their children follow.
''We didn't plan it that way,'' Mrs. Augelli said. ''Usually retiring means being on your own more. But the more my family came down to visit us, the more they liked it here.''

GRAPHIC: Ruth and Orville Hawes outside their house in Livingston Manor, N.Y., where they retired. Mrs. Hawes has become active in local politics there; Helen Augelli and Herb Barr at the Baum Center for retirees near Kitty Hawk, N.C. (The New York Times/Alan Zale, Charles Gupton) (pg. 1); map of U.S. showing counties where at least 15% of rural population growth was in new arrivals 60 or older, as of 1980 (Source: U.S. Department of Agriculture) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (91%); MRO (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (91%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (70%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (91%); MARATHON OIL CORP (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RURAL AREAS; RETIREMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENSUS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (86%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); FARM LABOR (73%); COST OF LIVING (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); MOUNTAINS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER



44 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Photo Exhibition Opens;
Land-Use Debate

 BODY:
A sweeping land-use change, the Lower Density Contextual Zoning Amendment, has prompted heated controversy since it was adopted by New York City's Board of Estimate in June. Requiring new residential construction to be compatible with existing housing, it will affect half the city's residential land. 
The measure is welcomed by those seeking to preserve small-scale residential neighborhoods. But will it aggravate the shortage of affordable housing? And is it practical in a city whose neigbhborhoods are as economically and architecturally diverse as New York's?
The controversy is the subject of ''Housing in Context: Maintaining the City's Low-Rise Neighborhoods,'' an exhibition that will run through Oct. 30 at the Urban Center, 457 Madison Avenue, near 51st Street. The exhibition, with photos and text, is co-sponsored by the Municipal Art Society and the Department of City Planning.
A related forum at the center Thursday at 8:30 A.M. - like the exhibit, it is free and open to the public - is entitled ''Maintaining the Character of Neighborhoods Through Zoning.'' Panelists will include experts who helped draft the new policy or have studied its implications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF ESTIMATE (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LAND USE POLICIES EXHIBITIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); CITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); 



45 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 19, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: HOME CLINIC;
Advantages of a Hand Scraper

BYLINE: By JOHN WARDE

 BODY:
BEFORE sandpaper became popular, woodworkers, especially cabinetmakers, relied on a simple tool called a hand scraper for smoothing wood prior to applying finish.
Many professionals still prefer a hand scraper to sandpaper for this purpose. Although hard to find (woodworking supply stores carry them, but hardware stores generally do not), hand scrapers are well worth acquiring if you build, repair or refinish furniture or other fine woodwork like molding and trim.
A hand scraper is nothing more than a small piece of thin steel similar to that used for making handsaw blades. The most popular shape is rectangular, and is used for smoothing flat surfaces. Curved scrapers for smoothing concave and convex surfaces also are available, but are difficult to sharpen. 
Rectangular scrapers measure about two and a half inches wide and six inches long. Typically, both long edges are sharpened in a way that creates a fine ridge, called a burr, on each side.
When the tool is held nearly perpendicular to the wood and pushed or pulled across the surface, the burr acts like a blade, slicing fine shavings from the surface in much the same way as a plane or chisel.
A scraped surface is smoother and more receptive to finish than one produced by normal sanding, even when sanding is performed in stages, using successively finer grades of abrasive. Unlike sandpaper, a sharp scraper does not shred wood fibers as it rubs against them, nor is dust created that clogs wood pores, inhibiting absorption of finish.
Other advantages of a scraper are speed - a scraped surface can be achieved in a fraction of the time required for sanding with several grades of paper - and economy. Dull sandpaper must be discarded and replaced; a dull scraper need merely be resharpened.
But perhaps the most agreeable aspect of using a scraper is that it does not create the clouds of irritating dust that sanding, particularly with a power sander, does. Wearing a dust mask is not necessary, and even most allergy sufferers who might experience distress from breathing sanding dust can usually use a scraper with no ill effects.
For versatility, a set of three rectangular scrapers is best: one thin (0.4 to 0.6 millimeters) and very flexible for delicate work, another slightly thicker (0.6 to 1.0 millimeters) and less flexible for smoothing bare wood and a thick (1.0 to 1.5 millimeters) nearly rigid scraper for refinishing. The set should cost less than $10. A new scraper must be sharpened before it is used. For this and subsequent sharpenings, you will need a vise, a 10-inch, smooth-cut mill file with a handle, an oilstone and a special tool called a burnisher. This is a round, triangular or oval rod of hardened steel about eight inches long and with a handle. It is available where scrapers are sold.
Begin by clamping the scraper in the vise, with the edge to be sharpened pointing up. Use strips of wood between the scraper and the vise jaws to protect it.
Grip the file at both ends and rest it across the edge of the scraper, perpendicular to the sides. While applying light, even pressure, slide the file back and forth across the edge of the scraper to smooth the edge and square it to the sides.
File until you can detect a slight ridge or burr on each side of the edge with your fingertip. Then place a few drops of oil on the oilstone and remove the burrs by sliding the stone lightly back and forth several times along each side of the scraper.
When the burrs are gone, spread a little oil onto the burnisher. Grip it and rest it across the edge of the scraper, as you did the file. But instead of holding the burnisher perpendicular to the sides of the scraper, tilt it at an angle of 5 to 10 degrees toward one side.
Slide the burnisher along the edge of the scraper 6 to 12 times, using hard pressure. This should form a new burr along one side. Then tilt the burnisher the same amount toward the scraper's other side and form a second burr.
Sharpen the scraper this way on the remaining long side and, if you wish, on one or both short sides.
To use a scraper, simply fasten the wood to be scraped securely to a workbench or sawhorses, just as you would for sanding. Stand so that you can either pull or push the scraper over the surface, following the same direction as the wood grain.
Hold the scraper with both hands. If you decide to scrape by pulling the tool toward you (best for smoothing broad areas), place your fingers over the top of the scraper and extend them across the blade, perpendicular to its long edges. Extend your thumbs across the other side (parallel to your fingers) to afford a grip.
If you decide to push the scraper - this is better for smoothing knots and small areas of complicated grain - extend your fingers across the blade from the sides so that your fingertips are toward each other. Then press against the rear with your thumbs to curve the blade. Place the scraper on the wood and tilt the upper edge in the direction you plan to move the tool. Then scrape, adjusting the angle so that the blade produces fine, curly shavings while sliding easily over the surface.
Removing only enough wood to create a smooth surface takes some practice. Be careful not to scrape surfaces unevenly.
When scraping produces dust instead of shavings, a sign of dullness, use a different burr. Even when all the burrs are dull, re- burnishing is often all that is necessary to restore the edges for a short time to nearly their original state.
If the scraper was well sharpened to begin with, reburnishing usually can be performed two or three times before complete resharpening, including using the file and oilstone, is necessary.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: HOME REPAIRS HAND & POWER TOOLS (78%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); 



46 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 10, Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Hearing Set on Aged, Disabled Poor

BYLINE: By States News Service

 BODY:
A CONGRESSIONAL hearing in Central Islip this week will throw a national spotlight on an innovative Suffolk County program that can better enable localities to shoulder the burden of their growing population of the elderly and disabled poor.
It also will bring to light a new profile of the typical recipient of Supplemental Security Income on Long Island, a profile the Nassau County Health and Welfare Council calls ''startling.''
The Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County is a private, nonprofit health and human services planning agency that receives funds from such sources as the United Way and Nassau County.
First to testify tomorrow before the Subcommitee on Human Services of the House Select Committee on Aging will be Patrick G. Halpin, the Suffolk County Executive, who is expected to answer in the negative the question posed by the special hearing: ''S.S.I. Outreach: Is the Federal Government Doing Enough?''
 
Downey Calls Hearing
The first such meeting covering this topic, the hearing will be held jointly with the State Assembly's Standing Committee on Aging. It will be chaired by Representative Thomas J. Downey, Democrat of Amityville. 
There are 24,000 S.S.I. recipients on Long Island, 13,000 in Suffolk County and 11,000 in Nassau, according to the Health and Welfare Council. To qualify for S.S.I., an individual must be 65 years old and blind, elderly or disabled, with a monthly income of less than $454 or an annual income of $5,448. Couples must earn less than $655 per month, or $7,866 a year.
A member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Downey introduced legislation into the House deficit-reduction measure that directs the Social Security Administration to establish the first permanent national S.S.I. outreach program. This $16.6 billion reconciliation bill is currently on the House floor.
In his capacity as chairman of the House Aging Committee's Subcommittee on Human Services, Mr. Downey is holding this hearing to demonstrate the need, as well as to find ways to improve, S.S.I. outreach, according to John Olinger, subcommittee staff director.
Joining other New York experts on the fiscal and administrative shortfalls involved in caring for the area's poor, Mr. Halpin will testify to the increased financial hardships faced by local governments in supporting the needy.
Mr. Halpin will outline a money-saving S.S.I. outreach program that meets those needs in Suffolk, and that he feels can be replicated by localities across the country.
''Suffolk, the largest suburban county in New York, receives half as much Federal aid as it did 10 years ago,'' said Mr. Halpin. Suffolk spent $19.1 million on its Home Relief Public Assistance Program in 1988.
To aid needy recipients, Suffolk established the Disabled Client Assistance Program, an outreach project that helps Home Relief clients previously denied S.S.I. benefits to switch back to Federal welfare rosters.
 
What Program's Staff Does
Under the Disabled Client Assistance Program, its staff members pore over public assistance records, searching for welfare recipients denied S.S.I. benefits. They then review the case files and obtain documentation from the individual's physician or psychiatrist to help the Suffolk County Department of Social Services appeal on his or her behalf.
With a 90 percent success rate, this procedure resulted in the overturning of 82 cases in 1988 alone, the department said, netting Suffolk $732,000 last year and representing projected welfare savings of $6 million.
''And this year, after expanding the program, we expect to save about $3.3 million, and this is in addition to reducing our total projected welfare burden,'' Mr. Halpin said, adding that families also receive more benefits from S.S.I. than from Home Relief program. .
''So their actual standard of living is increased, plus they lose the stigma of being on welfare.''
 
Government Policies Blamed
Mr. Halpin will be among several witnesses at tomorrow's hearing who blame Government policies for the burden that localities are facing.
''The Reagan Administration is representative of a whole movement talking about Americans as all being in the economic mainstream. All they have to do is will it, and they can succeed financially,'' said Jack O'Connell, director of the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County.
''But a whole bunch of disabled people are locked out of this mainstream, and all the employment counseling in the world can't help them.''
Mr. O'Connell will discuss his organization's new profile of the S.S.I. population on Long Island, a study he said reflects those individuals ''right on the precipice'' of dire poverty.
''I expected the typical recipient to be an aberrant type, drug addicts or people with personality disorders,'' he said. ''But what was startling was that S.S.I. people are just like the lady who lives next door to you, except that she's trying to live on Long Island on $368 a month.''
 
Shift in Burden Urged
Arguing that S.S.I. funds and outreach programs need to be increased, Mr. O'Connell believes that the localized burden also must be shifted.
''The main thrust in Washington and in Albany is that things should be paid for locally,'' he said. ''But services are being greatly reduced because local governments can't afford them.'' Representative Downey agrees. ''It is important to understand that policy decisions we make in Washington have a real and measurable impact on the lives and pocketbooks of Long Islanders,'' he said. ''If the Federal Government fails to provide S.S.I. outreach, the burden falls on state and local governments.''
Also attending the hearing will be Paul Harenberg, Democrat of Bayport, chairman of the State Assembly's Standing Committee on Aging; and Mr. Downey's House subcommittee colleagues, Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, and Representative Ben Blaz, Republican of Guam.
 
'Too Many Roadblocks'
Said Mr. Downey, the author of legislation that would establish a permanent S.S.I. outreach program:
''An aggressive outreach effort must be an integral part of the S.S.I. program. Too many people do not know that they are eligible, and there are just too many roadblocks that prevent them from finding out.''
Also testifying to this need to improve S.S.I. outreach will be Arthur Pitts, the Babylon Town Supervisor; Edwin Mendez Santiago, director of Raices, a Hispanic service group in Brooklyn, and Andrew Koski, public policy coordinator at Hunter College's Brookdale Center on Aging.
Also, Linsley Piper, a specialist with the state's Office of Mental Health, and Lou Krieger, a member of the National Legislative Council of the American Association of Retired Persons.
The hearing will begin at 10 A.M. tomorrow at the Clayton Central Islip Senior Citizens Center, 555 Clayton Street, Central Islip.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); ISLIP (NY)

SUBJECT: AGED; HANDICAPPED SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); COUNTIES (89%); AGING (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DISABLED PERSONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: HALPIN, PATRICK G (COUNTY EXEC) WILLIAM M THOMAS (55%); 



47 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: T.G.M.F. (Thank God, More Fridays)

BYLINE: By P. M. Rinaldo; P. M. Rinaldo, a retired chemical engineer, is the author of ''The Five-Day Weekend.''

DATELINE: BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y.

 BODY:
There's no compelling reason for the week to have seven days. Different cultures have different lengths of the week, ranging from four days in the Bantu and Ibo tribes in Africa to eight days in ancient Rome.
Our seven-day week appears to have arisen because of superstition. In the Near East, the number 7 was considered unlucky and all activities were avoided every seventh day. 
But there would be a number of rational advantages to changing the week to five days: Fridays, for instance, would come around much sooner. Of course, this would require eliminating two of the present week days. Which two? The third day of the present week honors the Roman god of battle, Mars; his Norse equivalent was the god Tir or Tiw, whose name gives us Tuesday. Thursday honors Thor the Thunderer, the Norse God whose modern arsenal would include the atomic bomb. Let's stop honoring war and thunder and scrub Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Our calendar could be adapted easily to five-day weeks. There would be 72 weeks in the year, arranged in 12 months of 6 weeks each, plus 5 holidays. Most people now work about 240 days a year. The same working days could be maintained in the new calendar by working three and a half days a week for 68 weeks. Or people could work five days, followed by a five-day weekend.
The latter arrangement of alternate five-day weeks would require the employee to have a ''job partner'' who would work during the off-week. Not only would the five-day week, when combined with the alternate-week work schedule, provide the employee with more leisure time for sports, hobbies, travel and cultural activities, but also it would allow time to be home when the repair man calls or to visit city hall to protest taxes. City hall, of course, would be continuously open with alternating crews of clerks.
For two-income families with small children, the arrangement would allow one parent always to be home with the children. Husband and wife could share equally in earning family income and doing domestic chores, rather than forcing the wife to work a ''second shift'' at home in addition to her stint at the office.
Employers who adopt the alternate-week work schedule could operate continuously, thus increasing utilization of their assets by 40 percent. Service industries, ranging from ski slopes to brokerage houses, would immediately gain a larger potential clientele from that proportion of the population enjoying the long weekend.
Where productivity could not be increased to offset the reduced working hours, more employees would be needed. A rough calculation shows that in the United States about 15 million more people would be required. These people could come from the present unemployed and underemployed, which some estimates show may number 20 million. Obviously, a great deal of training would be needed, but the nation would end up with a healthier economy at a higher level of gross national product.
So, who needs Tuesday and Thursdays?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: AFRICA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (57%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE INDUSTRIES LTD (51%); 

SUBJECT: CALENDARS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORK WEEK (89%); FAMILY (86%); CLASSICS (72%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); CHILDREN (67%); SKIING (63%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); 

PERSON: RINALDO, P M



48 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Resists High-End Condos

BYLINE: By LETTICE STUART

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS

 BODY:
JEROME GOLDMAN, a local developer and marine architect, had always dreamed of a home with a view of the Mississippi River. When a downtown site on the river became available in 1984, he decided to build a 14-story condominium there so he could enjoy a panoramic view of the city and the waterway from his penthouse.
Now Mr. Goldman's high-rise condominium, called One River Place, is nearing completion, but there was a nightmare delay along the way: With the $50 million project, at the foot of Poydras Street, suffering from the city's depressed economy and cost overruns, the lender called a 13-month work stoppage to re-evaluate the project. But many in the real estate industry fear its worst problem may be a low level of acceptance of high-rise, high-end condominium living. Here and in other cities, this kind of housing appeals to a narrow market.
Stephen Manshel, the project's manager, does not agree. Admitting the project has had its share of problems, he maintains that it is on track now and said he anticipates an 18-month sellout of the building's 91 units. They are priced from $195,000 for a 1,600-square-foot, one-bedroom on a lower level to $1.3 million for one of the building's two 5,100-square-foot, three-bedroom penthouses. Mr. Goldman has taken the second penthouse, scaled down to just half the original dream home he had envisioned. 
Marketing began four years ago, was suspended for 17 months while the building was being redesigned to increase the units from 66 to 91, and then resumed last March. While no sales have been completed, 36 contracts have been signed, Mr. Manshel said.
Wade Ragas, professor of finance and director of the Market Data Center at the University of New Orleans, said he doubts the building can sell out in 18 months. With a median household income of $33,000 in this metropolitan area of 1.3 million residents, he said, there just aren't that many people who can afford Mr. Goldman's prices who want to live in a downtown high-rise.
According to Professor Ragas, there is little demand for condominiums, with 350 to 450 units sold each year for the last three years. Those units, he said, are for the most part in somewhat lower-priced town-house complexes, which have been selling ''fairly well.'' The chief reason he cites for sluggish sales is the availability of inexpensive single-family houses in the metropolitan area, where the average house sells for $83,000.
''People don't want to pay more for less living area in a high-rise,'' he said. Moreover, he said, residents of the Crescent City just aren't used to high-rise living since the older multifamily housing here consists, for the most part, of two to four apartments in a building. ''Yard space and outdoor living, which are difficult to get with condos, are very important to people here,'' Professor Ragas said.
High-rise condominiums in other parts of the city have not fared too well, either. One case involves Henry T. Isaak, a developer who moved to New Orleans in 1979 from Ann Arbor, Mich., where he specialized in high-rise, multifamily residential buildings.
To test his belief that there was a market for similar projects here, he selected a choice spot on Lake Pontchartrain overlooking a 240-slip marina. His 19-story Lake Marina Tower opened in 1982 as the city's tallest residential building and the first waterfront condominium.
Four years later, with only half of the 77 one- to three-bedroom units, priced from $165,000 to $300,000, sold, Mr. Isaak decided to cut his losses by auctioning the rest. He netted about half of what he had originally expected. He then moved to Florida.
A SIX-STORY, 28-unit building erected in 1985 on the west bank of the Mississippi directly across from the central business district had even worse luck. Cost overruns forced the lender to shut the project down when it was only 80 percent complete.
The $6 million building, which was to have been the West Bank's premier condominium development featuring balconies with dramatic views of the French Quarter and the city's downtown skyline, was sold last year for $650,000 to Joe Somario, a Boston developer who has since completed the project and is now renting the two-bedroom units at rents ranging from $800 to $1,600 for 1,400 to 2,200 square feet.
One moderately successful new high-rise condominium so far is Park VII, a 10-story building in the city's expensive uptown area at Audubon Park and the Mississippi River. In July 1986, not too long before its completion, the $11 million project was taken over by the lenders who have steadily plugged away at sales since then.
The 36-unit building is now 70 percent sold. The units are priced from $279,000 for a 2,000-square-foot, two-bedroom on a lower floor to $675,000 for the 3,800-square-foot, three-bedroom penthouse.
John Hebert of Hebert & Smolkin, a real estate consulting firm with offices in New Orleans and Palo Alto, Calif., puts condominium buyers into two categories - those who cannot afford single-family homes and those, usually 55 or older, looking for release from home ownership. The problem is that it is difficult to get the older buyers to move. According to Mr. Hebert, only about 4 per cent of that group move each year.
Developers in many other cities have experienced the same resistance toward high-rise, expensive condominiums.
IT has been four years since Edward B. DeSeta built the 22-story Park Plaza, the first high-rise condominium in downtown Wilmington, Del. Five of the 125 units still have not been sold despite attractive financing, and plans for a twin tower, originally scheduled for completion two years ago, have been put on the back burner.
Herschel H. Quillen 3d, senior vice president of Edward B. DeSeta & Associates, said the biggest problem has been getting people to change their perception of housing from single-family to a high-rise. Buyers had to be educated that even though they could buy a large home on a half-acre lot minutes from downtown for the same price as one of the $375,000 larger units at Park Plaza, what they were getting instead was a whole way of life with service, amenities and convenience.
''We had to sell a life style more than real estate,'' Mr. Qillen said.
But that life style only appeals to a select group, according to David Peterson, a real estate appraiser in Phoenix, Ariz., where high-rise living has not met with success either. Mr. Peterson said his company, Real Estate Science Corporation, has done market studies that showed the profile of buyers in high-rise buildings, at least in Phoenix, are from New York, Chicago or Beverly Hills and are usually 45 to 50 years old.
''If you don't have enough of that group, then a high-rise residential building will not be successful,'' Mr. Peterson said.
That's what he told the developers of the Regency, an 11-floor condominium built in midtown Phoenix in the early 60's.
''We told them not to build, but they did anyway and were not able to sell the units,'' he said. Mr. Peterson claimed sales are very slow at another high-rise condominium under construction in midtown. There just aren't enough people in Phoenix who want that life style to make a project viable, he said.
Before downsizing the units at One River Place, Mr. Goldman's Normandie Company planned an even grander scale in both size and price for its apartmets - one- to three-bedrooms with 2,000 to 4,500 square feet of floor space and 500- to 1,000-square-foot terraces. Prices were to have ranged from $491,000 to $1.6 million. Mr. Goldman's penthouse was to have encompassed the entire top floor, with 10,000 square feet of floor space and a 10,000-square-foot terrace.
''The project originally was geared to 0.10 percent of the marketplace,'' said Mr. Manshel, the project manager. ''But by downsizing the units and reducing prices, we've greatly increased our market.''

GRAPHIC: One River Place, nearing completion in New Orleans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ORLEANS (LA); MISSISSIPPI RIVER

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); STRIKES (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); 

PERSON: STUART, LETTICE; GOLDMAN, JEROME; MANSHEL, STEPHEN



49 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 3, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY Q & A: SAMUEL J. LEFRAK;
Developer's Empire Keeps Growing

BYLINE: By JEFFREY HOFF

 BODY:
WITH more than 94,000 apartments in his company's portfolio, Samuel J. LeFrak, 71 years old, is among the nation's largest landlords. The Lefrak Organization is the principal developer of the massive Newport complex, an office, residential, shopping and marina complex that is the largest development along the Hudson River in New Jersey.
Mr. LeFrak, the son of an immigrant who acquired a valuable farm plot in Brooklyn early in the century, became prominent with the construction of the 5,000-unit Lefrak City apartment complex in Queens in the 1950's.
At the helm of his family-owned company, Mr. LeFrak has diversified into music, movies and oil and is now a billionaire. Forbes magazine estimates his total worth at more than $1.5 billion. 
Q. Is publicity important to business? Does it bother you that Donald Trump, Leonard Stern and Leona Helmsley get more publicity than you do?
A. Look, I am an unusual guy and I am working very hard on my craft. I have not arrived yesterday. You don't see my name in the newspaper. You don't see indictments. You don't see me involved in scandal. I don't put my hand in the garbage pail. My grandfather says, ''You put your hand in the garbage pail, you are going to come up dirty.'' And he also says, ''When a politician says something, make sure it's in writing.''
Q. James Rouse has made a commitment to low- and moderate-priced housing. Do you feel you have a similar responsibility to build low- and moderate-priced housing?
A. I am working on it. But, you see, if you go and open up Forbes magazine, you will see where I am and you will see where Mr. Rouse is. (Mr. LeFrak is near the top of Forbes's list of the 400 wealthiest Americans. Mr. Rouse is not on the list.)
Q. Well, is that important? Is money life's report card?
A. Money is the ingredient that you need for staying power.
Q. Do you recognize the difference between middle-income and low- and moderate-priced housing, providing housing for people who can't afford any down payment?
A. Well, I build for all. I build for the handicapped. I build for the senior citizen. I build for the working poor. I build for the moderate. I build the affordable and I build for luxury. I build office buildings, shopping centers. I build industrial parks. I do it all. But I also make movies. I also make music. Do you see this lady? (He pointed to a four-foot-tall cardboard cutout of Barbra Streisand behind his desk.) I found her. She was a tenant of mine in Brooklyn, and I want you to know I gave her her first booking. I can only tell you I have been lucky. Maybe I have been able to forecast and see a lot of things that other people can't see.
Q. What is the best thing about having so much money?
A. I don't look at money. Forget about it. I live very moderately. I don't live any more luxuriously than yourself. I still live in the house I built 40 years ago, and to me it is my Golden Pond. To me, money is just a means. It is one of the natural resources that is needed to get the fuel, to get the engine going.
Q. What is the significance of that (a bronze plaque of Romulus and Remus, the mythological wolf cubs who built Rome, nursing from their mother)?
A. Everybody is feeding off me. I am feeding Romulus and Remus.
Q. You don't see yourself as either Romulus or Remus?
A. No, I am the guy who brings jobs to people. I am the guy who brings housing, affordable housing. I am the guy who does the impossible and makes it possible. I am the guy that invented new math -one plus one equals three - and says nothing is impossible. This (the bronze) is something I bought many years ago in Italy right after the war. And this represents my contractors, my tenants and the people I do business with, and I am the guy that is bringing this to the world. And the buildings I have built.
Q. What kind of influence and relationship do you have with people in government?
A. It's the respect that they have. Look, I have title. (Mr. LeFrak was knighted by the King of Norway.) I also am a doctor. (He has received a number of honorary degrees.) And I'm also a guy who has done some very exciting things in my life, and life isn't over at 65. I will give you a perfect example. I am getting a Social Security check. It's ridiculous. I give it away to charity. My life, the great stuff is coming. I have some great plans. Read some of the things I have written. I have a school, the Lefrak Brick and Mortar College, and if you go to Oxford University St. Cross College (in England), you will see a big plaque at a library I donated there. I am a person that is very well known. That is why I am being invited to talk before the Parliament in Finland. I am asked to come to China to build cities. In Egypt they call me Ramses III. The point is, don't compare me to these little builders. Not that I have any criticism - you know a long march starts with the first step - but I have been up to the top of the mountain. I have tremendous years of experience. Do you know what is sitting in the memory bank of my computer? Do you realize the work that I have done? Do you realize how many impossible things I made possible?
Q. What is the toughest part, the bricks and mortar or getting through the government regulations and the politics?
A. They all have their problems, believe you me. But if I am going to be a person that has a problem, that is one thing. Thank God the problem doesn't have me. That is the difference. I know how to ride with the punches. I am a survivor.
Q. Do you feel you get the respect you deserve?
A. Absolutely - just the other day they called me world class.
Q. Who?
A. The Mayor (of Jersey City, Gerald McCann) and also Janiszewski (the Hudson County Executive, Robert C. Janiszewski). They are honored to have me there. Hey, listen. The Lefrak name is a big important name. Go to Koch, ask him about Sam LeFrak and he'll say, ''My hero.''
Q. Will you build low- and moderate-priced housing in New Jersey?
A. I am doing it at Salem Lafayette (in Jersey City). And I'll do more. Why not? I have the capability.
Q. I am asking because it's a very big issue.
A. But not with me. I voluntarily walked into this and the first four buildings I built (in Jersey City) were under a program where I said I am going to take care of everybody. I am not building the Chinese Wall. I am not building for the rich. I am building for everybody.
Q. Do you have a sense the problem is easier than it appears to be?
A. It's a problem because if politics would step out, free enterprise would solve the problem. Free enterprise always solves these problems. I know in Short Hills you are not going to build welfare housing for the poor. On the exterior they give you some kind of a picture, but when you penetrate their facade you see bigotry, and it's in New Jersey as well as New York. You need certain things in order to do it. The Federal Government won't give you a dime. You know H.U.D. is filled with scandals. You know the local community and the state have to kick in tax abatements. As the interest rates come down, you go to the state finance agency and you will raise bonds with the state's guarantee.
Q. So the private sector could do it with Federal help?
A. You need their assistance. No question. But they are not going to give you money outright and say build public housing because that program is dead. Listen, let's not be Joan of Arcs. There is a time and place. All of your public housing was built during the recession. This is 1989 - in 10 years you are in the 21st century. A lot of things are happening; a lot of technology is being developed.
Q. What does that mean? Fewer people can afford to buy a home today than ever before. We have homeless people on the streets. Mr. Rouse has made a commitment and formed a foundation to build low-income housing. How many has he built?
A. I can't tell you. How would the problem be solved? The problem is solved if the politics are going to make it possible for you to do it. That's the whole basis. There is an old story, ''I believe in the project, but not in my backyard.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Samuel J. LeFrak at the Newport center in Jersey City (NYT/F. N. Kinney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LEFRAK ORGANIZATION INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEWPORT CENTER (JERSEY CITY, NJ)

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); MUSIC (69%); SCANDALS (66%); INDICTMENTS (52%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: HOFF, JEFFREY; LEFRAK, SAMUEL DONALD TRUMP (72%); 



50 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
In Monology, to Play It Right Do It Yourself

BYLINE: By IRENE LACHER; Irene Lacher often writes about entertainment and the arts.

 BODY:
Ten years ago, no one in television would have dreamed of scouting out jarring forums of New York downtown theater for material that could play in Peoria. Yet this November, HBO will feature Reno, one of downtown's most promising monologuists, performing at P.S. (Performance Space) 122, a former public school on the Lower East Side that's becoming a breeding ground for cable specials.
These days, the world of the performance avant-garde is meshing quite nicely with the world of commerce, and increasingly the performers connecting the two are practitioners of a new hybrid art form that has blossomed in the post-modern 80's. Monologuists have been confounding traditional notions of what plays at the box office. They have been courting full houses Off Broadway with such unlikely come-ons as spare sets - no more than a table or music stand - and that most uncommercial virtue of all: the demand that audiences meet them halfway using their own imaginations. At that midpoint, monologuists create entire universes, frequently cast with figures from their own past. 
A few artists who began as downtown solo performers have scaled the heights in Hollywood or are on their way - most notably Whoopi Goldberg, but also Ann Magnuson, who is joining the cast of the ABC sitcom ''Anything But Love,'' and Sandra Bernhard, a David Letterman regular who is filming a movie version of her Off Broadway show, ''Without You I'm Nothing.'' The movie ''Talk Radio,'' a vehicle for the writer-performer Eric Bogosian, sprang from his one-man show at the Public Theater. And John O'Keefe, whose solo work ''Shimmer'' played at Second Stage last summer, has been tapped by HBO to write a movie about the 60's.
While monology has been a springboard for performers to find fame and fortune in more traditional, collaborative forms, the great maw of commercial entertainment has also opened for solo work. Mr. Bogosian's one-man character studies have aired on HBO, and Spalding Gray, another HBO grad, starred in a movie version of his monologue ''Swimming to Cambodia,'' directed by Jonathan Demme, that stayed true to the stripped-down format he pioneered at the Performing Garage a decade ago. David Cale performed his Bessie award-winning monologue ''The Redthroats'' for a national audience last year in an HBO special with Bette Midler as master of ceremonies. And in recent years Lincoln Center has provided monologuists with the opportunity to reach uptown audiences in its ''Serious Fun'' series.
When looking for talent, HBO is interested in a ''unique personality with a unique point of view that translates to other media,'' says Stu Smiley, senior vice president of original programming for HBO's Comedy Channel. ''And when you see someone wowing an audience, you judge the response. It's important not to be too precious in terms of the audiences you please. It's part of a mind-set for performers - what they really want to do, whether they want to reach a bigger and bigger following.''
Some avant-garde performers who haven't yet managed to snag a Showtime special are hustling to get one, pointing to a dramatic shift in attitude. ''I think a lot of downtown people want to make it big,'' says the monologuist Frank Maya. ''I know some performance artists who are about 10 times more ambitious than any actor I've ever met or anyone I know from Los Angeles.''
Even someone like Karen Finley, a monologuist whose fascination with treading on taboos has limited her to fringe venues, is cutting dance records that are being played in Miami discos and has been approached by MTV. ''I think that artists of my generation, who grew up in the 60's and 70's, really feel it's good to reach more people,'' Ms. Finley says. ''If you can be moving someone in a positive way, you can affect their life. Being selfish with it sometimes can mean keeping it inaccessible.''
Ms. Finley is one of the few monologuists who springs directly from a ''purist'' tradition of performance art, crediting 70's conceptual performers like Vito Acconci and Chris Burden as influences for her own work. Yet as performance art leaves the galleries for the theaters and nightclubs of the 80's, it's concerning itself more with the traditional aim of popular theater, which is to entertain. And monology is most easily making the leap because the form is, as the P.S. 122 director Mark Russell put it, ''light on its feet. You can do it in a big hall like Lincoln Center. You can do it at a teeny spot like [King Tut's] Wah Wah Hut. There's not a lot of set. You've got one personality. It crosses into TV real fast and then, God forbid, they're good on Letterman, and then it's nationwide. That's why there's a lot of focus on this stuff: it's good, it's different, it's contemporary and it can move into other mediums.''
Monologues appeal on an even more basic level; they're the contemporary incarnation of storytellers, that most primal form of theater tricked up with loans from stand-up comedy and conceptual art, rock-and-roll, the punk esthetic and German cabaret.
Click to the 80's and a generation of youth spoon-fed as much on rock concerts as on any other experience in a theater. Mr. Bogosian, who created a wide range of arresting characters in his one-man shows ''Drinking in America'' and ''Funhouse,'' considers himself an heir to the singer-songwriters who began to emerge in the 60's.
''When a rock band performs, there's one single person who stands in front of the band usually and performs to the audience and that person always is affecting a persona,'' says Mr. Bogosian. ''We think we know something about them and we go to see them perform on stage in that persona.
''Their songs constitute a voice like a playwright's voice or a poet's voice. It's a kind of theater that is performed solo for the most part. You go to see the frontman.''
Even Reno, whose performance flirts with stand-up comedy, is working with Pat Place, formerly of the new-wave band the Bush Tetras, to create new work interweaving monologues with music. Her new piece will have its debut at Dixon Place tonight. ''My particular kind of monologue, being that its stream of consciousness, is very comparable to music in that it's like jazz improvisation,'' she says.
Perhaps the most influential monologuist has been Spalding Gray, who is credited with creating the contemporary epic monologue. Mr. Gray's work was very much a product of its time. ''It's just a reaction to the surrealistic fragmentation of the 60's, which got done, really done well and then done to a fare-thee-well,'' Mr. Gray says. ''It got too messy. It got too fragmented.'' Simply sitting at a table, Mr. Gray crafted intricate, humorous evenings from his experiences buying a country home, which led to ''Terrors of Pleasure,'' and acting in the film ''The Killing Fields,'' which resulted in ''Swimming to Cambodia.''
He also pointed the way toward a confessional approach to theater. Mr. Cale's ''Redthroats'' features a young misfit named Stephen Weird who is obsessed with Judy Garland, much like his creator. Ms. Hughes's ''World Without End'' unflinchingly finds poetry in her own incestuous past. Mr. Gray's autobiographical approach was being crossed with another esthetic of the 70's, the punk movement, which said anyone could be in a band. ''This was anyone can be a performance artist,'' says Mr. Russell. ''People were going, 'I can just perform my story and I don't have to make it into a fiction. I don't have to write it down. I can just go out there and start talking about what happened to me last week.' ''
But with humor the motor behind much of the solo work, monologuists commonly tip their hats to comedians like Lily Tomlin, Richard Pryor and Lenny Bruce. The monologuist Penny Arcade, who creates offbeat characters in the style of Mr. Bogosian, tweaks critics' inclination to draw comparisons. In a closing bit of her recent run at P.S. 122, she does a ''Jeopardy'' spoof that clusters monologuists under a category she calls ''The New Lenny Bruces.''
But while humor sugarcoats monologuists' barbs, an underbelly of serious concerns separates their work from that of the typical stand-up comedian. In fact, Reno, who manically lambastes trendy New Yorkers' penchant for ''pretty food'' and corporations that label AIDS a ''lifestyle illness,'' had only sporadic success when she tried the conventional comedy circuit.
''I still think I could be considered a stand-up if I wanted to be one myself, but now [the group of them] is often racist, always sexist, and if they bother at all, homophobic,'' she says.
There's a difference in rhythm as well. Whereas stand-up comics pepper their delivery with a succession of punch lines, monologuists are more likely to stumble across them in the course of delivering a cohesive narrative.
''The thing about these shows is that the imagination clicks in so hard that it creates an impression that really lasts,'' says Mr. Maya. ''A woman from VH-1 [the video channel] came to see me at a time when I was fretting about not being enough of a stand-up comic, and she said, 'I see stand-up comics every week, and I never remember a word they say. I remember every word you said in your show.' The solo people give you a strong image if they're good, and those images just stick and stick.''
Prosaically enough, simple economics have had the most catholic effect on the boomlet of monologuists. Mr. O'Keefe wrote ''Shimmer,'' a solo piece recalling his boyhood in juvenile homes, after money problems derailed his plans for a play with five actors that had been commissioned by American Inroads in San Francisco in 1987.
''There wasn't enough money to pay them all, so I asked if I could do a solo, and they said, 'Sure,' '' says Mr. O'Keefe. ''It was a lot more money with one guy and I just used lights and a music stand and I wanted to keep the overhead next to zip.''
Yet the simplicity of monologues has its own appeal that transcends the question of dollars and cents. According to Mr. Maya: ''Someone said being a stand-up monologuist is almost like being a film maker. You get up and create your whole world in an evening, except you don't need the sets. You don't need the budget. I like that.''
 

 
'Taken Over By Me'
This is an excerpt from ''The Redthroats,'' a performance piece by the monologuist David Cale.
 
 And the wood duck were looking at us because they'd never seen a plane full of singing people. And I leap to my feet and I start yelling, ''I'm gonna take my life in my hands and shake it and shake. Till all the bad parts fall out. Till they've all dropped out of me. Like dead leaves shaken from a living tree. There they go. All those rotting leaves. There they go. I'll shake and shake till only the living, the present, the alive is left. No dead leaves. No dead leaves. No past. I'll shake off the past. Let the past get past. Let the past get past.''
Then I realize, I'm saying what I feel. Doing what I want. I get nervous again. I'm afraid of what I might want to do. I'm scared of what'll come out of my mouth. But I can't stop. I'm being taken over by me! The me I haven't been yet. The me I'm going to be when I start being myself. The frightened. The angry. The me that got buried in thestet childhood. All of the me's are all out at once. All acting and singing, asserting, saying, ''Let's see where the future can go! Let's see where the future can go!'' Then applause. Cheers. Clapping passengers. I'm a hit. Karen Black comes out of the cockpit and she says, ''I don't know about you guys but I'm just about ready to hit the ground. Safety belts belted? Extinguished cigarettes? Luggage where it should be? We're coming in to land. Any minute now. We're gonna be landing.'' Build yourself a life and live with it!
''Coming in to land. Any minute now. Coming in to land. Any minute now. Coming in to land. Any minute. Now.
Welcome to America.''
 
Copyright c 1989 by David Cale, reprinted by permission of Vintage Books, a division of Random House, Inc.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Reno (Donna Ann McAdams); David Cale (Paula Court); Penny Arcade (V. Ndolo Doumbe) (pg. 5); Frank Maya (Paula Court); Karen Finley (Dona Ann McAdams) (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FILM (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); MOVIE FILMING (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); MOVIE CASTING (72%); WRITERS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: LACHER, IRENE DAVID LETTERMAN (78%); 



51 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL ASKING U.S. FOR AID ON HOUSING FOR SOVIET EMIGRES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
Israel has asked the United States for $400 million in loan guarantees to finance the construction of housing for Soviet Jewish emigres, and Israeli officials said some of the housing would probably be built in the West Bank.
The extent of Jewish settlements in the West Bank has been a source of debate not only among Israeli politicians, but also between Israel and other countries, including the United States. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d has called on Israel to ''stop settlement activity'' in the West Bank, which it has occupied since 1967. The future status of the territory is an important issue in the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
An Administration official said today that he knew of Israel's desire for housing loan guarantees, but that the Administration had not formally reviewed the proposal or taken a position on it. #100,000 Emigres Expected Israel says it expects to receive 100,000 Soviet Jews in the next three years, in part because the United States has adopted new procedures restricting their admission to this country. For years, Israel has pressed Washington to encourage Soviet Jewish emigres to go to Israel rather than to the United States.
Israel estimates that it will need $3 billion to provide housing, jobs, education and other services for the Soviet Jews. The cost for housing alone is estimated at $2 billion.
Federal loan guarantees, under a program to finance housing projects in developing countries, would allow Israel to borrow money from commercial banks at low interest rates. But Congress would need to expand the program to accommodate Israel's needs because the worldwide total of loan guarantees under the program is $125 million in the coming year, and under current law no country can get more than $25 million a year.
On a visit to Washington last week, Finance Minister Shimon Peres asked for American help. In a meeting with members of the House Appropriations subcommittee responsible for foreign aid, Mr. Peres acknowledged, in response to a question, that the current Israeli Government would probably build some of the housing in the West Bank. The United States has said for years that the establishment of additional settlements posed ''an obstacle to peace.'' Supporters of such settlements say they enhance Israel's security and fulfill a mission to live in all the biblical land of Israel.
Arab countries have expressed alarm at the prospect that significant numbers of Soviet Jews might settle in the West Bank. Clovis F. Maksoud, the Arab League representative in the United States, said such migration would contribute to a ''creeping annexation'' of the occupied territories by Israel, undermining prospects for peace in the Middle East. Mr. Baker has called on Israel to ''forswear annexation'' of the territories.
Israel estimates that it will need to build 30,000 housing units for the 100,000 Soviet Jews, at an average cost of $65,000 a unit. Israeli officials said Soviet emigres would decide where to live based on such factors as where they could find jobs and where their relatives lived. Inevitably, the officials said, some emigres would want to live in the West Bank.
''Should we bar them from the West Bank?'' one official asked. ''I cannot imagine the Government of Israel, as it's constituted today, accepting such a restriction.''
 
A Promise to Repay
Congressional aides said that lawmakers might seek assurances that Israel would not use the money to build housing in the occupied territories.
In a summary of its proposal, Israel said the loan guarantees would not increase the budget deficit of the United States Government because Israel would repay the money it intends to borrow from private American banks.
Israel said it could not afford to borrow the money from commercial banks without Federal loan guarantees. The Israeli Government said it ''contacted several American financial institutions and learned that the most favorable conditions we could expect'' on such loans ''would make the program unfeasible.''
Until September 1988, the United States assumed that Jews leaving the Soviet Union had ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' and were eligible for admission to this country as refugees. However, since then, the United States has closely examined each applicant and has denied refugee status to 5,884 Soviet Jews, or 19 percent of those who applied in the last year.
Starting today, Jews leaving the Soviet Union on Israeli visas will no longer be able to change their destination and apply for visas to the United States in Vienna or Rome, as thousands have done in the last decade. Soviet citizens wishing to come to this country will have to apply at the American Embassy in Moscow, rather than in Vienna or Rome. Israeli officials say they hope this will end the phenomenon of Soviet Jews' not going to Israel after they leave Moscow.
Last week, Mr. Peres said he hoped the new housing would be ready when Soviet Jews arrive in Israel, and he added, ''I don't think there is anything more important in our own life than to have the Russian Jews come to Israel.''
Israeli officials said their Government would pay $2 billion of the resettlement costs with its own resources. They said they hoped the United Jewish Appeal and other private organizations would raise $600 million. This is in addition to the $400 million they hope to borrow with the help of loan guarantees from the United States.
 
4 Palestinians Killed
JERUSALEM, Oct. 1 (AP) - Israeli soldiers shot and killed three Palestinians in clashes in the occupied lands today, and Palestinian militants stabbed to death a man they accused of collaborating with Israel, the army and Arab hospital workers said.
Arab residents of the Gaza Strip were banned from entering Israel for a third day as Israelis celebrated Rosh ha-Shanah, the Jewish New Year. The ban remains in effect until Monday morning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JORDAN (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN RIVER (WEST BANK); ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; JEWS; FOREIGN AID; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; HOUSING JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); RELIGION (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); IMMIGRATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT SHIMON PERES (59%); 



52 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 3033 words

HEADLINE: Affluent Addicts' Road Back Begins in a Climb Past Denial

SERIES: THE SPREADING WEB OF CRACK: LAST OF TWO ARTICLES

BYLINE: By ANDREW H. MALCOLM

 BODY:
With the growth of crack addiction in the middle class, treatment specialists have discovered that affluent addicts are more likely to deny their problem at first, and more able to hide addiction's devastating costs.
Once in treatment, affluent addicts typically have more effective support from family and employers and an education level that makes them more receptive to health concerns.
Despite these advantages, there are no guarantees that even the best treatment will work. Expensive private treatment programs have increased markedly in recent years as the addiction in the middle class has grown. But treatment specialists say they still have much to learn about what particular strategies work for which patients, and why. 
The addicts themselves, some of whom have squandered not only money but marriage, family life and self-respect on crack, describe in detail a recovery process that is not just painful but never-ending.
 
'Collision With Reality'
The addict with social and economic support does not normally seek treatment until driven by some ''private collision with reality,'' in the words of Dr. Michael Sheehy of the Silver Hill Foundation in New Canaan, Conn., an institution with long experience treating addicts.
''For instance,'' the doctor said, ''nothing focuses the attention of your average middle-class person quite so quickly as a felony arrest.''
Many addicts arrive for initial treatment feeling that they are doing it for someone else - an attitude which, if continued, rarely presages success. ''Inner city addicts can hardly not face the reality of their addiction and situation,'' said Lee Chase, a Michigan drug counselor. ''But the middle class has the greatest denial instincts you can imagine.''
William Hopkins, director of street research for New York State's Division of Substance Abuse, agrees: ''In the poor neighborhoods, everyone knows every user and every dealer, so there is no public image to protect. Middle class addicts have both a public and a self-image to protect with denial.''
 
A Slide Into Paranoia
Typically, crack addicts who work become so paranoid about their addiction and the risk of discovery that they confine smoking to evenings or weekends, and usually do it alone. They smoke as much crack as they have and afterward may ease their depression by drinking and sleeping.
''They are incredible,'' agreed Joel Dannewitz, director of the crisis clinic for Aquarian Effort in Sacramento, Calif. ''They say, 'Well, yeah, I do some crack every day, but I'm not really an addict because I'm not poor. I don't go to crack houses. I don't use needles. And I don't hang around on street corners.' So we say: 'Well, then why is it your wife is leaving? And your boss is threatening to fire you?' They've got to see that bad is bad even when it's better than.''
 
THE ACCOUNTANT
Mike L., a 30-year-old accountant, had learned an important lesson about the personal and social corruption wrought by drugs. On his way to buy cocaine, he was stopped for a traffic violation in a small New York town and then arrested when the officer discovered marijuana in the car.
Mike soon found himself in the local judge's basement. ''That's a lot of money,'' said the judge, eyeing the $500 in Mike's wallet. ''Now, you don't want a drug arrest on your record, do you?''
The young man took the hint. He left $350 in the basement as a ''fine.'' Mike got no police record. Neither did he get any drug treatment.
In recent years, he began smoking crack in his bedroom at night and on weekends, when his daughters and wife would flee this strange new person. ''I never used a crack house, though, so I knew I wasn't a crack addict.''
He sold family property, consumed family bank accounts. ''Unless you go for help, I'm leaving,'' his wife said. And her lawyer's letter confirmed it. ''Find me someone to go to,'' said Mike.
 
Days of Craving
She did. The day Mike was to begin a one-month residential treatment, he left his family at a coffee shop. Instead of taking the train to the hospital, he bought more crack and hid in his bedroom. His wife found him there later and put him in a taxi. He smoked more crack on the train.
There followed days of craving. Hours of pacing. Drug dreams. Group therapy. There were private sessions with a psychiatrist and counselor. There were emotional highs and lows, and Mike was told to practice handling each.
''I just could not see myself as a drug low life. I was a nice guy. I manage lots of people at work. I'm in control. It was hard to admit that I wasn't in control of myself. Very hard.''
After a month Mike returned to work (only a company counselor knows of his addiction and treatment) and began attending daily meetings of Narcotics Anonymous. ''Sober life has frightening moments. The drug becomes your best friend and closest enemy at the same time. Spare time is frightening. Watching TV is frightening. And coming home from work now, seeing all the dealers just around the corner is difficult, I gotta say.''
 
Counting His Clean Time
Twenty-two weeks after his return home Mike slipped. He smoked marijuana - and the crack craving returned, as the doctor had predicted. Mike went out to buy some, but no dealers were around. After admitting his mistakes to his N.A. group, he started counting his clean time all over again. He walks home on different streets now. ''A slip is not always a fall,'' said Mike's doctor.
''It's frightening,'' said Mike, ''to think that right now I am determined never to smoke again, but three hours from now I could be out there. I got to be on guard forever.'' But his daughters no longer fear him. His wife remains understanding, if reserved. ''It's difficult to trust someone again after all those lies,'' Mike says. ''But there's definitely healing under way.''
The other night his wife gave him a compliment. She had just returned from getting money from their bank's cash machine. She said how nice it was to check the balance and find that someone had not emptied it. All Addicts Are Not Alike ''We're just beginning to get a sense of what treatments work,'' says Dr. Arnold M. Washton, who operates a New York treatment center.
Experts are finding that, although the addiction's power and destruction cut across class lines, the effectiveness and psychology of differing treatment strategies do not. As Dr. Sheehy put it: ''An addict is an addict is an addict. But a patient is not a patient is not a patient. Every one of them is different, from the inner city to the suburbs.''
Treatment skill comes in mixing and matching the medicines and therapies to the individual's addictions and underlying emotional problems.
''There is no magic bullet,'' says Dr. Jeffrey S. Rosecan, director of cocaine abuse treatment at New York's Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Numerous private programs have emerged in the last three years to serve the thousands of working addicts with the insurance or private funds to cover residential treatments that normally last at least a month and may cost more than $1,000 a day.
 
Addiction's Wide Swath
Both the older private programs, which tend to rely on discreet doctor referrals, and the spread of new private addiction programs, a few of which advertise on radio and television, are now showing that most new patients are ''polyaddicts.'' They are addicted to more than one substance -crack and alcohol, for instance.
According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse surveys, the number of treatment centers and patients has risen sharply in recent years, from 3,018 with 173,479 patients in 1982 to 5,360 centers with 260,151 patients in 1987. Self-help groups report similar increases. Narcotics Anonymous says it had 2,000 active groups of addicts in the 50 states in 1982. Today, it estimates 14,000 groups - at least one in every county in the nation - with 2,000 more groups in 50 other countries.
There are no definitive figures on success rates, in part because there is no one standard treatment to judge. Some counselors say privately that some of the new treatment centers will only treat addicts as long as insurance lasts. These counselors are concerned about the quality of treatment at the new centers; they say the centers are not monitored or investigated.
 
The Motivation Factor
And unlike purely medical problems, much of any addiction treatment's success depends on each patient's personality, especially motivation.
''Addiction treatment,'' Dr. Washton said, ''is the only health care field where effectiveness is judged by results among significant numbers of people who don't want our help. It's like saying, 'Why is penicillin so ineffective among those patients who refuse the drug?' ''
Some studies and anecdotal experiences suggest treatments are successful with only one or sometimes two of every three patients staying clean. ''Recovering from addiction is a lifelong day-to-day struggle every day,'' said Mr. Chase, himself a recovering addict. ''Down the line, most patients relapse. They have to road-test our teaching.''
Counselors also find potent denial even among relatives who may be addicted not to a drug, but to the dependence of the person on the drug. Any change can seem to threaten their lives and that stability, even if that stability is painful and costly at times.
Treatment strategies vary from long, military-style regimens to looser out-patient clinics. But three ingredients have emerged as crucial: effective detoxification; longterm counseling, both individual and in groups dealing with the addiction and underlying problems such as depression or low self-esteem; and followup support.
Many complain that private treatment is too expensive and public treatment underfinanced. But, at least for initial help, support groups such as Narcotics Anonymous, Cocaine Anonymous or Alcoholics Anonymous remain free and without waiting lists, and with virtually hourly meetings in every city are open to anyone any time.
 
THE BUSINESSMAN
''I stopped smoking crack a couple of times by myself,'' said Brian B., a Midwesterner who is 30 and was married to a nonaddict. ''It was terrifying.
''But then I'd start getting clear-headed again, and I'd have some opinions - and my wife would go out and buy me some more. And I'd light it up and sit in front of the TV.''
The owner of a video-game leasing business in the Middle West, Brian is the son of an office supervisor. His first memory of getting high came at the age of 5. when a friend's father laughingly encouraged him to drink a beer. By 14, he had more than just tried vodka and marijuana. ''Sometimes I got angry or sad or quiet, and I was always being told I shouldn't feel that way. Drinking and pot let me feel the way I really felt.''
One time, he saw a friend snort a gram of cocaine, jump up, run into a wall and collapse in convulsions, turning a deathly shade of white. So by some turn of internal logic, Brian switched to smoking crack, which eventually cost $800 a week.
Whenever he tried to stop, he found himself eating compulsively. His first rehabilitation, 90 days of out-patient care, failed. ''But then I wanted to not drink and do drugs, or I wanted to die and I didn't care which.'' After a 30-day in-patient stay, he felt so secure he was afraid to leave. But he did. He then began 12 weeks of out-patient sessions and now attends Narcotics Anonymous sessions. Often his 6-year-old daughter attends simultaneous Ala-Tot meetings of children of addicts.
He said he was very afraid before his first Narcotics Anonymous meeting. Then he saw six of his old high-school snorting pals sitting there, too. The Language Of Treatment Among the new approaches in this new field of middle class crack treatment, Mr. Chase has found that even something as simple as the language spoken in group sessions can make a difference. Many middle class addicts are put off as much by torrents of street language as some inner city members are by recommended readings or academic citations. Other counselors find that descriptions of crack's impact on health arouse more concern among middle class addicts.
But Dr. Forest Tennant, who operates 20 California clinics and is drug adviser to the National Football League, says real scare tactics or dire health warnings do not work with the 1,500 middle-class addicts his clinics treat annually.
''They may have done some dumb things,'' he said. ''And their sense of discipline may be dormant. But these are educated people. I give them a menu of 20 things - nutrition requirements, food supplements, physical and mental exercises, new hobbies, life style changes, and so forth. I say you need to do 12 of these. Pick them. With someone less motivated, I wouldn't give them the choice.''
 
Testing Is Constant
Dr. Tennant takes ''the 'attaboy approach.'' The urine of all patients is tested every 48 hours, and those detailed results, showing declining amounts of harmful chemicals, are shown to abstaining patients as encouragement, like a successful dieter watching the scales each morning.
''But without the education, the family support and the motivation,'' Dr. Tennant adds, ''I could talk to some patients all day about getting their body chemistry back in balance by developing a breakfast habit of high-complex carbohydrates, and that would produce zero change.''
''In many inner city apartments there may be several addicts in the same family,'' said Dr. Tennant ''In the suburbs, an addict's family and co-workers may be shocked, but I have no trouble involving them in support, because crack is so devastating so quickly that the memory of the real Harry or Sally is still fresh.''
 
THE LONELY MAN
Steve G. has lost track of all the treatment programs he has tried. ''The trouble with all these therapies,'' he said with a smile, ''is they ruin your high. You start feeling guilty.''
He has gone through a series of encounter groups, residential and out-patient treatments and psychiatrist's visits, seeking to whip marijuana-cocaine-alcohol-crack addictions that consumed, among other things, a $50,000 trust fund. He did not feel he was addicted because he was not injecting drugs. ''I was big on denial,'' he says, a few days into another program.
Crack seemed the answer to loneliness and lingering depression over his mother's death. ''I was looking for something destructive to put me back in touch with the pain I'd become so comfortable with,'' he said.
But this time his motivation is greatest. His days are filled with the usual meetings. His nights are often filled with long, bad dreams. ''There are a lot of ups and downs,'' he said. And he is debating his outright release versus a halfway house. Where he will go next week he has no idea.
But he does know where he won't be going - to Manhattan's 167th Street or Times Square, where he could easily buy crack from the many street merchants. ''I was feeling pretty superior to them,'' he said. ''Then one day I realized something. They were smiling every time they saw me coming.'' Signs of Hope Despite Worry Dr. Rosecan and others are worried about the future because recent generations of teen-agers have insisted on experimenting with drugs, and crack allows no room for mere experimentation. Still, there are glimmers of hope. The total number of reported cocaine users declined, from 23 million in 1985 to 14.5 million last year, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
And while some insurance companies are increasingly reluctant to finance multiple treatments, counselors say many employers are quietly understanding about rehabilitation absences. The General Motors Corporation says post-treatment addicts are even better workers than before their addiction.
''But crack is not the real problem,'' said Bruce Hindenach, executive director of the Capital Area Abuse Commission in Lansing, Mich. ''Crack addicts have a way of getting help or getting dead. And there will always be another drug to abuse. The real problem is all of our national addictions.''
And the general longterm ineffectiveness of many drug war strategies from the police car to the psychiatrist's couch are beginning to raise larger social questions.
''We are an increasingly addictive nation,'' said Dr. Washton. ''Crack, booze, cigarettes. Two years ago, Turkey was the bad guy for opium. Now it's Colombia. This month, the concern is crack. Next month it'll be crank. And then ice and whatever. See, that way it's 'them' not 'us.' That lets us avoid facing the more important, the more frightening question of ourselves and our own addictions.''
''The drug war,'' said Mr. Hopkins, ''is going to be won not by folks getting off drugs but by folks not getting on drugs. The police can't do that, only parents can, by teaching values again from Day One.''
In his new book, ''Willpower's Not Enough'' (Harper & Row), Dr. Washton notes that the United States has 2 percent of the world's population but consumes 60 percent of its illicit drugs. And the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism reports that American alcoholics and problem drinkers total 17.5 million, or 3 million more than cocaine users.
''People worry about being mugged by crack addicts,'' said Mr. Hindenach. ''But drunk drivers have got nothing to do with Colombia, and they kill 25,000 Americans every year.''
Robert Wadman is chief of police in Omaha, where crack is a daily problem now. ''We adults,'' he said, ''are staggering around with a vodka in one hand and a government-subsidized cigarette in the other, telling our kids they shouldn't use mind-altering substances that are bad for their health.
''Now what's the lesson you would draw from that?''
 
WHERE TO GO TO GET HELP
Anyone desiring help for drug addiction can seek simple conversation or referral to treatment services by calling local offices of Narcotics Anonymous or Alcoholics Anonymous, which are listed in the white pages. In the New York area the 24-hour number for A.A. is 212-601-5817.
National headquarters for Narcotics Anonymous is c/o Box 9999, Van Nuys, Calif. 91409. Phone 818-780-3951. Hours are 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. Pacific time.

GRAPHIC: photos of Lee Chase (Robert Killips); Robert Braunstein and Dr. Michael Sheehy (NYT/Stephen Castagneto) (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CRACK (COCAINE) SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); COCAINE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); FAMILY (77%); FELONIES (70%); ARRESTS (50%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (50%); 

PERSON: MALCOLM, ANDREW H



53 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Israel is seeking $400 million from the United States to finance construction of housing for Soviet Jewish emigres. Israeli officials said some of the housing would probably go up in the West Bank. Page A1

 
Issue of Syrian troops clouds parley on Lebanon A3

 
6,300 East Germans arrived in Hof, a West German town near the East German border. They had to pass through East Germany as part of a face-saving deal for the nation. A1 
 
 
More East Germans took sanctuary at the West German Embassy in Prague by sneaking past Czechoslovak police. A8

 
Washington Talk: Poland and Hungary want more U.S. aid A16

 
Colombians are tiring of violence after six weeks of bombings and shootings. Many have begun to suggest that officials abandon the campaign against cocaine barons. A1

 
Nicaragua began voter registration, providing a first glimpse at what will be a huge international effort to preserve peace and supervise free elections in the nation. A10

 
An Argentine warlord was buried in his homeland 112 years after he died in exile in England. The move is a likely prelude to the granting of pardons for military officers. A5

 
Mexican chief in U.S. for talks A6

 
Six gay couples in Denmark joined in ''registered partnerships,'' giving them all but a few of the same rights as married heterosexuals. Gay rights advocates hailed the unions. A8

 
European curbs on auto pollution are evolving as environmental concerns rise and the European Community's power grows. Curbs for heavy trucks are also being considered. D1

 
Japanese phone calls turned cheaper over the weekend. The breakup of a monopoly for international calls was completed, starting a price war involving two new competitors. D1

 
China marked the 40th anniversary of its Government with dances and fireworks, along with stiff security that kept ordinary Chinese at least a mile from Tiananmen Square. A3

 
World stock markets rise D8

Manila journal: In death, Marcos's return is urged 4

 
NATIONAL A12-17, B10-11
 
The Supreme Court begins business today with a docket that all but guarantees a replay of the divisive struggles over abortion and other issues that defined its last term. A1

 
Denial among affluent crack addicts is more prevalent than among poor addicts, experts say. The wealthy are driven to treatment by a ''private collision with reality.'' A1

 
Three more are arrested in the case of the 20 tons of cocaine B10

 
The popularity of black fraternities and sororities has been increasing, particularly on many mainly white campuses affected by racial tension. Other blacks have called the groups divisive and elitist. A1

 
More children are homeless or in families broken by divorce, drugs or poverty, a Congressional study reports. It says that childhood is ''less safe for millions'' of children. A12

 
News analysis: Capital-gains tax cuts are being debated as a matter of political principle, not tax policy. Misleading statistics are being used in the process. D1

 
Wall Street sees only light effect for stocks and real estate D7

Mitchell predicts bill's defeat D7

 
Reports of H.U.D.'s mismanagement and political favoritism have placed roadblocks for the Senate confirmation of two Bush nominees with ties to the housing agency. A17

 
Gifts to South Carolina areas devastated by Hurricane Hugo are overwhelming the network of warehouses, public buildings, and churches distributing food and materials. A12

 
Jesse Jackson traces the hurricane in reverse, traveling from from South Carolina to the Caribbean. He preached hope and brought publicity to the storm's victims. A12

 
Report says AIDS drug, dextran sulfate, is not effective A17

McKinsey may buy information technology group D1

Charlotte journal: At PTL trial, even the devil showed up A12

 
REGIONAL B1-8
 
Benjamin Ward has left his mark on the New York City Police Department, making it larger, younger, better educated, better integrated and better paid, experts say. But they say it is still has serious problems. B1

 
Jackie Mason's racial language continues to trouble Rudolph Giuliani's mayoral campaign. Newsweek magazine quotes the comedian as calling David Dinkins a ''fancy shvartze with a mustache.'' B1

 
Danger of political surrogates seen in Mason controversy B6

Campaign matters: Mason's jokes, Giuliani's woes B1

 
Steam pipes have been blowing up in New York City with some regularity for decades, but recent events suggest that the rate of these explosions may be increasing. B1

 
A political TV war in New Jersey has started in the race for governor. Both sides offer negative advertisements that bombard voters with messages that are hard to forget. B1

 
A hiring rule was struck down by a New York State judge. The rule required contractors to employ ''economically disadvantaged'' trainees for projects that are built and financed by New York City. B4

 
A play about life in Bensonhurst, which is being performed this week at a theater in Chelsea, has some striking similarities to the killing of Yusuf Hawkins. B3

 
An F.B.I. agent shot a firefighter, killing him, after the firefighter threatened another F.B.I. agent with an assault rifle, the authorities said. B3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); LEBANON (92%); SYRIA (92%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); DENMARK (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COCAINE (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); LGBT RIGHTS (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ABORTION (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); CHILDREN (61%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (53%); PRICE CUTTING (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (58%); 



54 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: 'People's China' Celebrates, but Without the People

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 1

 BODY:
The People's Republic of China celebrated its 40th anniversary today with colorful dances and fireworks, along with such stiff security that ordinary Chinese could not get within a mile of the birthday party in Tiananmen Square for ''People's China.''
The cacophony as nearly 50,000 fireworks burst in the air was strikingly reminiscent of the crackle of machine-gun fire at the same location on June 4, when army troops killed hundreds of protesters and crushed the democracy movement. Largely because of international outrage, no foreign heads of state or heads of government came to China to join the celebration today. Even many ambassadors stayed away, among them the American Ambassador, James R. Lilley. 
In the viewing stand on Tiananmen Rostrum, where Mao declared the founding of the nation on Oct. 1, 1949, China's elderly leadership gathered to watch the show, but from clips shown on Chinese television even they seemed unusually quiet and withdrawn. Deng Xiaoping, China's senior leader, who was making his first evening appearance in years, looked old and wan as he stared impassively at the fireworks.
''What happened in Beijing not long ago was bad,'' Mr. Deng told Li Jong Ok, North Korea's Vice President, on the rostrum. ''But in the final analysis it is beneficial to us, because it made us more sober-minded.''
 
Revision of a Remark
Mr. Deng's comment, prominently reported by the official New China News Agency, seemed intended as a revision of the remark last week by the Communist Party leader, Jiang Zemin, that the killings were not a tragedy. Mr. Jiang's comment was regarded by many Chinese and foreigners as particularly callous.
Mr. Deng's clarification was only the latest in months of mixed signals about China's attitudes and policies. While top leaders repeatedly insist that they will never retreat from the decade-old policy of change and openness, the dismissal of some of the leading advocates of restructuring and a new enthusiasm for harsh language about ''class struggle'' and ''dictatorship of the proletariat'' have made many Chinese and foreigners worried that the country is seriously drifting backward.
The 40th anniversary celebration was to have been an occasion when Mr. Deng could bask in public adulation and commemorate the extraordinary achievements of his decade in power. Five years ago, during the 35th anniversary celebrations, he rode in the parade and was hailed with enormous warmth and respect.
Now, however, attitudes toward the 85-year-old Mr. Deng have changed, and criticism on many counts is not hard to find. Among the charges are that he refuses to give up power, that he ordered the democracy movement crushed, that he allowed corruption and nepotism in his family, and that he permitted inflation and other economic problems to get out of hand.
In what may be a sign of his infirmity, Mr. Deng's daughter, Deng Rong, appeared to be seated behind him, apparently to repeat comments in his left ear, since he is deaf in his right ear.
The authorities were apprehensive that dissidents, some of whom possess machine guns taken from soldiers in early June, might mar the festivities, and security was remarkable even by the standards of Beijing under martial law. The Avenue of Eternal Peace, the main east-west thoroughfare, was blocked off by layer after layer of troops, police and ordinary workers who were deputized with temporary identification cards. Tens of thousands of troops and police officers seemed to be in the downtown area, many of them just out of sight in back alleys, and many were armed with machine guns.
 
A Shortage of Guests
No attack was known to have taken place, and the major obvious embarrassment lay in the shortage of guests on the rostrum. The official list of foreigners who met Mr. Deng was strikingly meager, including only such dignitaries as a Czech Politburo member, a senior Pakistani legislator, a Cuban Communist Party official, and cabinet ministers from Ecuador and Mongolia. The Soviet Union was represented by the deputy chairman of the Soviet-Chinese Friendship Society, identified as I. Arkiphov. The only American on the rostrum was former Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr., who is on a private visit.
All the top Chinese leaders were on the rostrum, including the 84-year-old Chen Yun, who had not been seen in public for nearly two years. Mr. Chen, who appeared briefly on television and did not look well, is chairman of the Communist Party's Central Advisory Commission and may be second in influence only to Mr. Deng.
On Tiananmen Square itself, more than 100,000 young people danced together to celebrate the anniversary. The young people, who had been chosen carefully and had practiced for a month for the event, appeared more languid than either joyous or resentful.
During the 35th anniversary celebrations, there was a huge military parade around Tiananmen Square, but plans for another were canceled this year, apparently because Beijing residents had seen enough weaponry in recent months. A group of 45 soldiers, however, did goose-step on cue in front of the rostrum.
Early in the day, major city parks were opened for special festivities like martial arts exhibitions and concerts. As with the Tiananmen Square festivities, only the elite with special passes were allowed to enter the parks in the morning, when activities were under way. In the afternoon, the exhibitions and concerts ended and the general public was admitted.

GRAPHIC: photo of soldiers in the Temple of Heaven Park (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF; BEIJING (CHINA); TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING)

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ANNIVERSARIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); CORRUPTION (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); ARMIES (57%); ARMED FORCES (56%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; LILLEY, JAMES R (AMB) DENG XIAOPING (55%); 



55 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Leader in the U.S. for Talks

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 1

 BODY:
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico left for Washington today on his first official visit to the United States, intent on testing Bush Administration pledges to help restore his country's economy while avoiding entanglement in the American Government's new drug control strategy.
Relations between Mexico and the United States appear to be on their best footing in years. Speaking at the annual meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund last week, President Bush praised Mr. Salinas, who took office last December, as a ''courageous leader'' who is ''turning away from state control'' of the economy and ''opening the door to private initiative.''
In an interview here with several American reporters, however, Mr. Salinas, who arrived in Washington this evening, argued that his sweeping economic program has not yet been answered by a corresponding opening of the American market to Mexican products. 
''I think that reciprocity in commercial relations is fundamental,'' he said. ''Isn't that what the United States is asking of Japan?''
 
Cooperation on Drugs
Though the Mexican President listed economic issues - trade, investment and debt among them - as his top priority in talks with American officials, he also recognized that drugs were certain to be a major item on the agenda as a result of international alarm over events in Colombia. Mr. Salinas said he plans while in the United States to ''insist on greater cooperation among governments'' in fighting drug trafficking, saying that ''a greater exchange of information'' on traffickers' movements is necessary.
''We have engaged in an intense battle, so intense that it has us concerned,'' he said of his Government. ''To have seized 22 tons of cocaine, the equivalent of one-third of total consumption of the United States, in nine months means that a lot of drugs are heading toward the United States, and an important part of that is coming through here.''
Mr. Salinas spoke on Thursday night, hours before American anti-drug forces seized 20 tons of cocaine in Los Angeles, said to have entered the United States via Mexico.
Mr. Salinas also made it clear he has no interest in taking part in the type of joint anti-narcotics field operations that the United States has begun carrying out with local authorities in countries like Bolivia, Colombia and Peru.
''The responsibility for combating drug trafficking in Mexico belongs exclusively to Mexicans,'' he said.
Even before announcing his new anti-drug program on Sept. 5, President Bush had said the United States military would be deployed ''to protect our borders'' from drug traffickers. Previous Mexican administrations have rejected Washington's requests that American forces be allowed to engage in ''hot pursuit'' of traffickers' planes and land vehicles as they cross the 1,952-mile border into Mexico, a stand Mr. Salinas reiterated.
''Along the border, Mexico will act on the Mexican side,'' he said. ''On the American side, those whom the Americans want to act will do so,'' he said.
On another perennial border problem, illegal immigration by Mexicans to the United States, Mr. Salinas said he would argue to the Americans he meets that ''the demand for Mexican workers is going to continue'' despite legislation aimed at halting it because ''the economic reality of the United States creates that demand.''
But Mr. Salinas, a 41-year-old economist who earned a doctorate and two masters' degrees from Harvard University in the mid 1970's, also linked the lessening of that migratory flow to economic recovery within Mexico, which since 1982 has been staggering under the burden of recession, annual inflation of as much as 160 percent and a foreign debt of $100 billion.
''I would prefer that Mexican workers stay and work here in Mexico,'' he said. ''That is why the recovery of our economic growth and the generation of greater job opportunities here in our nation so interests me. Without a doubt, that can attenuate the migration of Mexicans to the United States.''
 
Preferential Treatment Sought
With the aim of stimulating the Mexican economy in precisely that manner, Mr. Salinas said he would press for preferential treatment for his country's exports, such as textiles, steel and agricultural products. ''The permanence of Mexico's economic opening depends on our having reciprocity in other markets, which is why it is so important to have an agreement by sectors with the United States,'' he said.
Despite the policy differences, Mr. Salinas said he expected his meetings with Mr. Bush to be marked by ''cordiality and respect.''
''There is good faith and good will on the part of both administrations,'' he said. ''There will always be difficulties when you have so long a border and two economies that are so asymmetrical, but the atmosphere is positive and there are no sour themes in the relationship today.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); PERU (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); COCAINE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (64%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



56 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: In Nicaragua, the Election Observers Are Coming!

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DIRIAMBA, Nicaragua, Oct. 1

 BODY:
As national voter registration began today, Nicaraguans got their first look at what will be a huge international effort to preserve peace and supervise free elections in their war-battered country.
At registration centers here and throughout the country, dozens of two-member observer teams from the United Nations and the Organization of American States were sent out in shiny white jeeps to guard against fraud or other irregularities.
The Secretary General of the O.A.S., Joao Baena Soares, led an observer team to oversee registration in the heavily populated Pacific Coast region. United Nations technicians inaugurated a sophisticated radio and satellite communications network that will link hundreds of international observers across Nicaragua from now through February, when the elections are scheduled to take place. 
In New York and in Honduras this weekend, officials discussed final arrangements for two or three large new international contingents, including armed military units, that are being set up to monitor Nicaragua's borders and oversee demobilization of the contra rebel army. Those units are expected to begin operations in earnest over the next two months. A First for the U.N. ''It is the first time that the U.N. has been involved in a Latin American country in this kind of work,'' said Josue Cardoza Perdomo, a retired Colombian Air Force officer and a 20-year United Nations veteran who inspected registration procedures today as part of the observer force assigned to Diriamba, about 30 miles south of Managua. ''It is also the first time we have agreed to supervise elections in an independent country.''
The formidable international presence, established piecemeal under a series of regional peace accords, began to take shape six weeks ago and has quickly become a visible feature of Nicaraguan life. International officials hope the scale of the undertaking will, in itself, discourage conflict and election fraud and help promote a fresh start for this deeply divided society.
The most visible and unusual of the international contingents setting up operations are assigned the task of supervising the election process, from this month's voter registration to the conduct of the campaign to the final vote count. The two principal organizations will be the United Nations and the Organization of American States, which will conduct separate but coordinated monitoring efforts under an accord signed by the five Central American Presidents last February in Tesoro Beach, El Salvador.
 
Separate Mission by Carter
The two missions, of roughly equal size, will be augmented later in the campaign by former President Jimmy Carter, who has accepted a separate invitation from the Nicaraguan Government to lead a 30-member group to monitor the elections under the auspices of the Council of Freely Elected Heads of Government.
In contrast to efforts to monitor voting in countries like the Philippines, El Salvador and Panama, international officials say the effort in Nicaragua will place unusual emphasis on monitoring election conditions over the entire campaign period, rather than concentrating primarily on the voting day.
In Diriamba, Mr. Cardoza and his partner, Pedro Menendez Pareves, a Chilean-born United Nations economist, were given a respectful, even deferential reception by poll workers in school rooms, city buildings and other small offices that had been converted for use as registration centers.
The two observers heard complaints from some opposition poll workers who maintained that their credentials were rejected by local voting authorities. But the credential problems appeared to be associated largely with first-day difficulties of a large-scale registration process. Other opposition workers were accepted without problem, and Mr. Baena expressed satisfaction with the overall outcome of the day's events.
The acceptance of the observer role marked an institutional turning point for the United Nations, which has long experience in overseeing elections in partitioned territories or former colonies, but has never before monitored elections in a sovereign country. The political novelty of the mission was recently heightened by the choice of an American, Elliot L. Richardson, to be the personal representative of the United Nations Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, in overseeing the mission.
 
'Almost Unheard Of'
''We've done something that is almost unheard of,'' said a senior United Nations official in New York, ''which is to appoint an American to oversee elections in a country with which the United States is virtually at war.''
Day-to-day operations of the observer force will be handled by a United Nations official from Pakistan, Iqbal Riza. But Mr. Richardson is to visit Nicaragua at important moments in the electoral process, and will have a central role in shaping the organization's final report on the conduct and fairness of the election. International officials hope that his participation will eliminate any doubt about the impartiality of the verification process, particularly for conservative Americans, whose opinion is considered important to broad acceptance of the election results.
''In that sense,'' the official said, ''The credibility of someone like Richardson might be bigger than that of the U.N. itself.''
 
Experienced Observers
The United Nations contingent now includes 29 full-time observers, technicians and specialists in electoral procedure. They are assisted by personnel from other United Nations agencies already operating in the country, together with 26 Nicaraguan drivers and secretaries.
A spokesman, Angelica Hunt, said that all of the observers, who wear light blue hats and armbands with United Nations insignia for identification, are experienced United Nations officers from countries other than Nicaragua, and that most are from Western Europe and Latin America.
Mrs. Hunt said that during the campaign, which is under way, the observer force will be charged with keeping track of all aspects of the election process, including voter rolls, the amount of air time and advertising space devoted to the campaign, the use of official property or personnel for political purposes and other politically sensitive issues.
 
Force to Grow
By November, the number of United Nations observers is expected to double, and then to rise again in February, when the overall number of observers is to reach at least 160. Those observers, assisted by personnel from other United Nations agencies, will form 80 mobile monitoring teams, a number that United Nations officials say will permit close surveillance of at least 10 percent of all polling stations in the country, yielding a clear statistical picture of any irregularities.
A similar number of teams will also be fielded by the Organization of American States, giving a separate but equally comprehensive picture of the elections, international officials say.
In mid-October, officials from a combined United Nations-O.A.S. task force, the International Commission for Assistance and Verification, will visit contra bases in Honduras to begin preparing for the repatriation or relocation of the estimated 6,000 to 10,000 anti-Sandinista guerrillas in remaining camps there. Under regional agrements signed Aug. 7 in Tela, Honduras, the commission will also be responsible for receiving and storing arms surrendered by the guerrillas. It will therefore have a military branch that will carry arms intended for defense, United Nations officials say.
 
Armed and Uniformed
Mobile units of United Nations military observers will be deployed in November. The United Nations Observers in Central America will use jeeps and helicopters to monitor all borders among the five Central American countries, but are expected to focus the largest share of their energies on the Honduran-Nicaraguan border. The units, in which there will be more than 100 trained observers from Spain, Canada, Venezuela and Colombia, will be uniformed and carry arms intended for defense, United Nations officials say. A technical planning mission for the force visited the region late last month, and approval of the final plan is expected from the Security Council this month.
A third, still larger United Nations military mission contemplated by the Tela accords would be a full-fledged peace-keeping force to prevent incursions along the Honduran-Nicaraguan border. United Nations officials have indicated their willingness to consider such a mission, but have said the two countries involved have not raised the issue directly since signing the Tela agreements. Such a force would require Security Council approval.

GRAPHIC: photo of Nicargauans registering to vote in Managua (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); EL SALVADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); PANAMA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONDURAS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANAGUA, NICARAGUA (54%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC COAST LIGHTING (57%); PACIFIC COAST PRODUCERS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); ORGANIZATION OF AMERCIAN STATES (OAS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ELECTION MONITORING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); AIR FORCES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A JIMMY CARTER (50%); 



57 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Childhood Is Not Safe, Congress Study Warns

BYLINE: By JULIE JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
More children than ever are living in the streets or in families shattered by divorce, drugs or poverty, a Congressional study has reported.
It said that as cuts in Federal spending have worsened the plight of many poor people and as mounting economic pressures have squeezed the middle class, childhood has become ''far more precarious and less safe for millions of America's children.'' The bipartisan report, to be made public Monday, compiles grim statistics showing that conditions in the past decade have worsened dramatically for black and Hispanic families, leaving those children in greatest jeopardy.
 
The Hope and the Reality
And even among those children who seem destined for high achievement, the report said, hopes appear tempered by an acceptance that drugs, pregnancy or bad grades and bad jobs are overwhelming many of their peers. 
''This is now a problem of national scope,'' said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, chairman of the House Select Committee on Children, Youth and Families, which prepared the report. ''It's not restricted to those areas without an infrastructure,'' he said. ''It's not restricted to an inner-city ghetto, and it's not restricted to those areas hardest hit by the recession.''
 
The 'Incremental' Gains
Other experts note that ''incremental,'' or partial, gains have been made: for example, new tax cuts for low-income families with children, and limited expansions in Medicaid, and the Federal and state health program for the poor.
Still, said James D. Weill, general counsel to the Children's Defense Fund, whose research underscores the House report, ''The progress that we're making is far too slow.
For those children at greatest risk, the report says, talk of incremental gains has little meaning in their lives, which concentrate on strategies of survival, often with little guidance from adults.
Last year more than half the nation's black children lived only with their mothers and fewer than 4 in 10 lived with both parents. By comparison, about 79 percent of white children lived with both parents in 1988. In 1980, 82.7 of American white children lived with two parents and 42.2 percent of the nation's black children did.
Violence, too, takes a heavier toll among black men and boys, and experts say the risks have grown more critical as urban drug wars increase. Black males from the age of 15 to 19 die by homicide, execution or as a result of police actions at the rate of 51.5 per 100,000.
 
Open Question: The Future
White males in the same age group die at the rate of 8.6 per 100,000 in the same circumstances. Among older black males, aged 20 to 24, the rate jumps to 107.7 per 100,000. What remains unanswered, said educators, public policy experts and lawmakers, is the question of what government must do to reverse the trends.
''It's a very demoralizing report with respect to the future of children,'' Mr. Miller said.
In large part, he blames the economic policies of President Ronald Reagan. He said they amounted to ''a massive social experiment on our children during the 1980's consisting of major changes in the economy and work force with cutbacks in public support.''
Republicans on the House panel take issue with such finger-pointing. But they acknowledge the fundamental shifts in family life in the last 10 years.
''The data in there is factual,'' said Representative Thomas J. Bliley Jr., Republican of Virginia, the ranking minority committee member, ''but to say that kids are victims of our economic system or of government policies is wrong.''
 
As the Statistics Tell It
The report is based on Federal statistics gathered by the Bureau of the Census, the Labor Department and other Government agencies. It is the third in a series that were begun by the House committee in 1983. Among its other findings are these:
* Children, especially the very young, are the single largest poverty group among all Americans. In 1987, 1 in 5 children of school age and 1 in 4 preschoolers lived in poverty; black and Hispanic children are two to three times more likely to be poor than white children.
* In 1950, 4 percent of all babies were born to unmarried women. The number of such births has increased by a factor of five from 142,000 in 1950 to 878,000 in 1986.
* Despite a widespread Government consensus that Federal programs like Head Start work, low-income and minority children are the least likely to be educated in their early chidhood.
* In 1988, 1 in 4 girls 15 years old reported that they had had sexual intercourse. Among 19-year-olds, 4 out of 5 reported they had had sex; among 19-year-old males, 88 percent said they had had sex.
* The proportion of homeless children in shelters rose to 40 percent in 1988 from 21 percent in 1984.
 
More Precarious, Less Safe
''The combined effects of persistently high rates of poverty, declining earnings, underemployment, and single parenting have made childhood far more precarious and less safe for millions of America's children,'' the report says.
Twelve-year-old Jose Navarro confronts risk day to day in the Ramona Gardens housing project of East Los Angeles.
In an interview, he called the gangs that dominate schools and sidewalks there ''the things that really interfere with your life.''
Jose aspires to be a genetic engineer, he said, ''because maybe I could change the facts of the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FEDERAL AID (US) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); MEN (89%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); CITY LIFE (66%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (64%); LAWYERS (62%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, JULIE GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (52%); 



58 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON TALK;
Aid to Eastern Europe: Almost an Afterthought

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
A group of Hungarians, Hungarian-Americans and others gathered for dinner one night last week, with Foreign Minister Gyula Horn, who had traveled from Budapest to the United States to speak at the United Nations and to meet with senior officials in Washington, as the guest of honor.
Given the stirring events in Hungary in the last few months - the decisions to hold free elections, to dismantle sections of the Iron Curtain, to open the gates of escape to thousands of East Germans - it was not surprising that an ebullient mood prevailed. But there was also an undercurrent of dissatisfaction, and as always, the sardonic Hungarians encapsulated it in a joke.
''The reason America can't send us any money,'' one of the visitors said, ''is that they're saving every penny to fix the streets in New York.'' 
Despite the Bush Administration's attempts to suggest otherwise, both the Polish and the Hungarian Governments are sorely disappointed by the amount of financial and other help Mr. Bush has provided as they struggle to find a new future.
Within the last week, State Department officials say, the Polish Government has done much to cut the intellectual legs from under one of the answers the Administration has been giving when asked why it has pledged only $169 million to help Warsaw and $25 million to help Budapest. We mustn't send too much, American policy makers have been saying, voices lowered so as not to give offense, because they don't know how to use it effectively.
That position will be harder to maintain now that the Poles have sent to Washington a detailed description of how they plan to restructure their economy, precisely so that it can absorb more foreign aid.
Likewise, the White House argument that there was just no money in the budget for large-scale United States aid has been undercut to some degree by the speed with which the President and Congress managed to find $1 billion to help repair the ravages of Hurricane Hugo.
Many people in Washington, if predictably fewer elsewhere in the country, think the situation in Poland and Hungary, so fraught with danger and so laden with opportunity, as all the foreign-policy experts agree, is an emergency every bit as worthy of American attention as the one in the Caribbean and the Carolinas.
As a matter of fact, Madeleine K. Albright, the Czech-born foreign-policy scholar who advised Gov. Michael S. Dukakis in his 1988 Presidential campaign, urged some time ago that the United States look upon the Poles and the Hungarians as victims of a political-economic earthquake.
By the weekend, there were reports that Mr. Bush was giving serious thought to new assistance to Eastern Europe. Indeed, at a conference in Brussels last Tuesday, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Ralph Johnson said additional commitments were possible. That pleased the 23 other non-Communist countries at the meeting, but neither they nor critics at home are yet convinced that Washington is ready to develop a comprehensive strategy for dealing with the surging change in Eastern Europe.
Even The Wall Street Journal teased the Administration on Friday, noting the contrast between the meager levels of aid to Poland and Hungary and the banners hung from the Treasury that boast, ''Financing Freedom for 200 Years.''
''We need to applaud early, clearly and emphatically every sign of movement toward democracy,'' said Sol M. Linowitz, who has held senior diplomatic posts under Democratic presidents. ''Countries that choose to follow our path have the right to expect something more than words, and they aren't getting it.
''Even if we step up aid to Poland now, the world sees us as giving in, kicking and screaming, and we lose all credit for aligning ourselves with the forces of freedom.''
Is there a third, unacknowledged reason why the Bush Administration has moved so slowly? Perhaps, say some analysts here; perhaps a caculation has been made that too rapid progress by some of the satellites would produce a backlash in Moscow, either prompting a crackdown as in 1956 or 1968 or toppling Mikhail S. Gorbachev.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HUNGARY (97%); POLAND (94%); EUROPE (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); BELGIUM (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (93%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (61%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GYULA HORN (74%); 



59 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: H.U.D. Ties of 2 Bush Nominees Raise Roadblocks

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
The disclosure of widespread mismanagement and political favoritism at the Department of Housing and Urban Development has placed roadblocks in the Senate confirmation process for two of President Bush's nominees who had ties to the agency.
Congressional officials identified the two as George W. Haley, who was nominated to direct the Federal Postal Rate Commission, and Brian W. Clymer, chosen to head the Urban Mass Transportation Administration. The Federal posts each pay an annual salary of $82,500.
H.U.D. documents show that Mr. Haley, a friend of former Housing Secretary Samuel R. Pierce Jr., lobbied housing officials for Federal aid, and there have been news reports that Mr. Clymer's auditing firm got no-bid contracts from a quasi-public agency in Pennsylvania that received H.U.D. money. 
Mr. Haley and Mr. Clymer did not return telephone calls last week, although Mr. Haley has said in the past that he did not use improper influence in his dealings with the housing department.
 
Vote Delayed Indefinitely
Congressional officials said the Senate was supposed to vote on Mr. Clymer's nomination late last month, but the vote was delayed indefinitely at the request of Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, which is responsible for overseeing H.U.D.
One official said Senator Riegle has asked aides to investigate the news reports about Mr. Clymer's firm.
H.U.D. files show that Mr. Haley is one of several prominent Republicans who lobbied Mr. Pierce and other H.U.D. officials for Federal assistance under the agency's Moderate Rehabilitation program.
Investigators at H.U.D. and in Congress have charged that because of political abuses, millions of dollars under the program were diverted to housing projects favored by well-known Republicans, including friends of Mr. Pierce.
''Obviously we want to know why Haley approached Pierce and whether Haley got any special treatment,'' said a Senate aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Haley's nomination to direct the Postal Commission was sent to the Senate several days ago. Among the commission's duties is recommending changes in postal fees and reviews other activities of the Postal Service.
 
'A Fair Shake'
In a Nov. 3, 1987, letter, Mr. Haley, a Washington lawyer and former Republican candidate for Senate from Maryland, asked for Federal assistance for a nearly $3 million housing project in a town in Puerto Rico, Trujillo Alto.
''I request your personal involvement to make certain the proposal gets a fair shake,'' Mr. Haley wrote to Mr. Pierce. ''I will be pleased to have my Puerto Rico associates and myself meet with you at your convenience.'' Attached was a copy of Trujillo Alto's proposal.
The letter concluded: ''Thanks very, very much. George.''
According to H.U.D. documents, the agency agreed the next year to provide Trujillo Alto with nearly $22 million in housing subsidies under the Moderate Rehabilitation program.
The documents show that earlier in the year, Mr. Haley had lobbied the housing department on behalf of the Comprehensive Housing Investment Corporation and that he had been granted a meeting with several senior H.U.D. officials; Mr. Pierce participated in the meeting by phone.
''It was especially gratifying to my team and to me that you participated in the conference from home,'' Mr. Haley wrote on Jan. 15, 1987. ''We believe very strongly in the product displayed and believe that it will make a significant impact in affordable attractive housing.''
The company and the product were not described further in the letter, and it was not immediately clear whether Comprehensive Housing Investment received a H.U.D. contract. The company does not have a telephone listing in Washington.
In interviews earlier this year, before his nomination to the postal commission, Mr. Haley gave conflicting accounts of his H.U.D. lobbying activities, and at one point said that he could not recall any involvement in a Puerto Rico housing project.
But he insisted that if he was involved in the Puerto Rico project, he did not receive any lobbying fees, and his name did not turn up in an internal H.U.D. audit of the Moderate Rehabilitation program.
The Senate investigation of Mr. Clymer was begun Senate after news reports that his accounting firm received contracts from the Delaware County Partnership for Economic Development without competitive bidding, as required by Federal regulation.
The agency, which receives H.U.D. assistance, was founded by Representative Curt Weldon, a Pennsylvania Republican, and Mr. Clymer was Mr. Weldon's campaign treasurer in his last three election campaigns.
The Urban Mass Transportation Administration is charged with promoting urban development through improved mass transportation systems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF; POSTAL RATE COMMISSION; URBAN MASS TRANSPORTATION ADMINISTRATION

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ETHICS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS HOUSING AUTHORITIES (94%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POSTAL RATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ACCOUNTING (73%); AUDITS (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ETHICS (67%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HALEY, GEORGE; CLYMER, BRIAN W GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



60 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: TOPICS OF THE TIMES;
Why Subsidize Gridlock?

 BODY:
A growing crush of commuter traffic threatens the economic vitality and air quality of the nation's cities. Yet present Federal tax policy actively encourages people to drive to work. Legislation now pending in the Senate could help erode this perverse tax bias.
Under the Federal tax code, employers may offer the full cost of parking near the workplace as a tax-free benefit to employees, and deduct the whole amount as a business expense. That's a huge subsidy: a parking space in midtown Manhattan can cost up to $400 a month. In contrast, the tax-free reimbursement available to workers who commute by subway, train or bus is limited to a paltry $15 per month. If the employer pays more than $15, the entire benefit becomes taxable. Small wonder, then, that most employers don't consider it worth the administrative hassle to offer transit vouchers.
A measure sponsored by Senators Alfonse D'Amato and Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and William Armstrong of Colorado would raise the limit on transit vouchers to $30. If an employer provides more than $30, only the excess would be taxable. That's still low: Long Island Railroad commuters, for example, pay an average of $140 a month. But it's a step in the right direction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (55%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EDITORIALS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; URBAN AREAS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); 

PERSON: ALFONSE M D'AMATO (56%); DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (56%); 



61 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Let Nicaragua Vote Without Our Intervention;
Marines Didn't Do It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Reporting the nomination of Violeta de Chamorro as the opposition presidential candidate in Nicaragua, you say the Somoza family ''was installed by the United States Marines in 1934'' (front page, Sept. 4).
The reality, as analyzed by Mark Falcoff in the fall 1983 issue of This World, is that ''there was no direct relationship between the U.S. and . . . the creation of the Somoza dictatorship . . . [which neither] figured in U.S. plans or policies nor [was] greeted by the State Department with satisfaction or even tacit approval.'' 
I might add that all the marines had left Nicaragua in 1933, consistent with President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Good Neighbor Policy.
This is not a small factual error. It is widely believed and has exaggerated American guilt feelings about recent events in Nicaragua. As Mr. Falcoff says, ''No one can dispute that [the Somoza coup] could never have taken place in Nicaragua without U.S. intervention in 1912.'' But there is a vast difference between that statement and your assertion.
A reading of Nicaragua's bloody, authoritarian, exploitative history demonstrates that Nicaragua's continuing tragedy is largely home grown.
 
LAWRENCE E. HARRISON
 Cambridge, Mass., Sept. 5, 1989
The writer directed the Agency for International Development mission to Nicaragua, 1979-81.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (90%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (90%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SOMOZA DEBAYLE, ANASTASIO (1925-80) VIOLETA BARRIOS VDA DE CHAMORRO (74%); 



62 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Some Enchanted 'Saigon'

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Seems not so long ago that I produced an NBC radio broadcast from Mary Martin's dressing room after the London opening of ''South Pacific.'' That smash hit was an American artistic export based on stories growing out of the American victory in World War II; some enchanted evening.
The hottest ticket in London today is ''Miss Saigon,'' an Anglo-French theatrical collaboration growing out of the American military defeat in Vietnam. As musical spectacle, it's right up there with the same producer's ''Cats'' and ''Les Miserables'' - rousing, poignant, breathtakingly staged -with the big moment of the helicopter leaving our allies behind to suffer and die at least comparable in impact to the crash of the chandelier in his ''Phantom of the Opera.'' 
Although the plot - with its return to the Orient of an American serviceman and the heartbreak of the girl he left behind - is sure to evoke comparisons with ''Madame Butterfly,'' the message of this drama is blunter: ''You're not the only one we betrayed,'' says one G.I., and the second act's big number features a pimp deriding ''the American dream.''
Theater reviewing is not my thing. However, like the satirist who purported to review the gamekeeping passages in ''Lady Chatterly's Lover'' for Field and Stream magazine, I have an interest in looking at the politics behind the making of the Vietnam myth, to which this extravaganza contributes.
That myth has been set forth in dozens of apocalyptic films, novels, mini-series, biographies and memoirs: the Vietnam War was an unjustified intervention by the West in the world of the East; the experience brutalized, desensitized or traumatized the soldiers forced to go; the whole business caused tragedy for individual Asians and brought international humiliation for an absurdly anti-Communist United States.
You cannot find a drama about the nobility of trying to save an ally from invasion, or a show blasting the indecision that kept us from striking hard early with an eye to winning the war. Such theses invite only derision and would sell no tickets. Besides, right-wingers make lousy dramatists.
Instead, the story that is continually hammered home, often violently on film and more tenderly in this love story on stage, is a variation of this theme: We were self-righteous, well-meaning ideologues who broke faith, broke heads and broke hearts. That's the only dish being served up to the next generation. Go argue with a myth.
I like to think that somewhere in Hanoi a young Vietnamese dramatist-novelist-musician is thinking of writing a show. His hero is General Giap, the most successful military figure of the past generation, and his heroine, a beautiful granddaughter of Ho Chi Minh, is infused with anti-colonialist fervor.
In the first act, the brave partisans throw the French out of Dien Bien Phu and assert their nationhood, modeled on strict Leninism. Then Ho sends Giap south, and despite a succession of American bombing halts, the resolute general - nicknamed ''Missile'' Giap by a young American Presidential candidate - defeats the corrupt puppets in Saigon. The act ends with a helicopter taking their American protectors away. Long intermission of 15 years, during which the world changes.
The final act is a downer. Vietnam, now united, is a mess. The people in the South are conquered and sullen, wondering if they should have tried to escape in boats; the people in the North are poor, hungry, resentful and confused. The Soviets cannot help, the Chinese hate them, the West is unwilling to trade. Where are the promises of the long-dead Ho? Where is the spirit that once sprung from suffering and discipline? What was all the sacrifice for?
In a poignant scene, General Giap reviews the men who were once his inconquerable army: tired men straggling home from inconclusive years in Cambodia, coming home to unemployment and singing the Khmer Rouge Blues. At the end, Ho's vibrant granddaughter, disillusioned and broke, grabs a boat to Hong Kong, where she becomes a bar girl in a British-American club and joins the colonialists in dreading the inexorable Chinese takeover.
Needs work, of course; our unknown composer-poet in Hanoi would have to liven it up because Communist audiences desperately need escape from the despair that Western audiences enjoy escaping to.
No, ''Miss Ho Chi Minh City'' could never be the megahit that ''Miss Saigon'' is sure to be. Its derivative concept has this great flaw: True art never follows real life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

TITLE: MISS SAIGON (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (57%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; THEATER; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PUBLIC OPINION THEATER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (87%); MUSIC (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM MARY MARTIN (74%); 



63 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BENSONHURST ON STAGE: PLOT IS SADLY FAMILIAR, THE PLAYWRIGHT SAYS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FREITAG

 BODY:
There were times when he was growing up in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn, Frank Pugliese said, when he felt afraid - afraid of the angry young men who hung out at street corners and candy shops getting drunk and picking fights, and afraid that he might become one of them.
''When I went to college, I saw myself on the edge,'' he said. ''I knew I could go either way.''
But in college, Mr. Pugliese said, he found a way to deal with his conflicting emotions. He wrote a play. 
Set in Bensonhurst, ''Aven' U Boys'' is ''about people I knew and stories I heard growing up,'' said Mr. Pugliese, who is 27 years old and now lives in Greenwich Village. The title refers to a street in Bensonhurst where the characters gather.
 
Similar to Hawkins Killing
The play, which runs through Oct. 8 at the Space at 114 West 17th Street in Chelsea, is striking not only for its raw emotions but for its similarities to the recent killing of Yusuf K. Hawkins, a black youth who ventured into Bensonhurst to look at a used car and was surrounded by white youths and gunned down.
One of the play's plotlines centers on the fatal beating of a black man who, in search of a sandwich, crosses into a white neighborhood. The three young men who participate in the beating act as if they are unfazed, but display hints of guilt.
The play opens with the three men idly punching each other and casually bragging about the beating.
''They ain't human. They come from some African animal or somethin','' one of them says.
 
Similarities Sadden Playwright
''They know enough to know he shouldn't come around for no . . . sandwich,'' the same character says later. ''If he stayed on his side of the tracks, none of this woulda' happened.''
The similarities between the seven-year-old play, written in Mr. Pugliese's second year at Cornell University, and the murder of Mr. Hawkins did not surprise Mr. Pugliese so much as sadden him. Bensonhurst, he said, is a tightly knit community of hard-working Italian-Americans. But it is also a neighborhood where some frustrated young men are so full of racial hatred that they are capable of murder, he said.
''I don't like the feeling in the air there - it's not that optimistic,'' he said. ''A lot of people are feeling threatened. Crime is on the rise, the dropout rate is on the rise and unemployment is on the rise.''
The play, Mr. Pugliese said, is neither an attack on nor a defense of Bensonhurst. Rather, he said, it is an attempt to explore the motivations of some of the people who live there.
 
Theme: Violence Unacceptable
Nonetheless, Mr. Pugliese acknowledged that his play has a message: ''The bottom line,'' he said, ''is that violence is unacceptable.''
The play ends with one of the men confessing to his black girlfriend that he watched the racial attack. Rather than empathizing as he expects, she kicks him out of her apartment.
''I can't believe this,'' he says. ''I didn't have to tell ya.''
''Yes you did!'' she replies. ''But I don't have to forgive you.''
 
'That Stuff Never Happens'
''Linda,'' he says, ''life is short. The past is past. Let's worry about us. When the bomb hits we're all gonna die anyways.''
''The world's not going to end with a bomb,'' she replies. ''It's going to end with people like you standing around doing nothing.''
Fisher Stevens, who portrays one of the three men, said that when he first read the play, he thought it should be set in 1958, because ''that stuff never happens anymore.''
But a week after the play went into rehearsals, he said, Mr. Hawkins was killed.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Frank Pugliese and Pippin Parker (NYT/Ruby Washington)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: AVEN' U BOYS (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BENSONHURST (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: THEATER; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MURDER (88%); HOMICIDE (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (71%); SHOOTINGS (68%); CRIME RATES (65%); 

PERSON: FREITAG, MICHAEL; PUGLIESE, FRANK; HAWKINS, YUSUF FRANK A HAWKINS (70%); 



64 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: JUDGE UPSETS RULE REQUIRING MINORITY CONSTRUCTION HIRING

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

 BODY:
A judge has struck down a regulation that Mayor Edward I. Koch imposed in 1980 to require contractors to hire ''economically disadvantaged'' trainees for construction projects that are built and financed by New York City.
The city's Corporation Counsel, Peter L. Zimroth, said last week that the city would appeal the decision and would also prepare legislation to reinstate the trainee program, which has helped hundreds of members of minorities to enter the construction industry.
''It has been a very effective program,'' Mr. Zimroth said, ''and we do not want to lose it.'' 
Justice Leonard N. Cohen, who ruled against the program in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, praised the purpose of the program. But he found that the Mayor lacked the authority to impose it with an executive order without legislative approval.
 
'Good Intentions'
In his decision, which was signed on Sept. 22 and received by city officials last week, Justice Cohen noted that the city ''argues that the Mayor has the power and obligation to implement programs designed to prohibit discriminatory hiring practices.''
''The good intentions of the Mayor's executive order, a commendable and socially desirable investment in people, is not at issue here,'' the judge said. ''Rather, the issue is whether the Mayor is legally empowered to issue this affirmative remedial order in the absence of a grant of legislative power.
''Here,'' he continued, ''there has been no City Council or other legislative grant of power to permit an executive affirmative remedial plan which mandates trainee employment preferences for economically disadvantaged persons involving city contracts.''
 
Another Ruling
Citing an earlier case, Justice Cohen noted that the state's Court of Appeals had invalidated another executive order, which provided that 10 percent of all construction work awarded by the city must be given to local enterprises in ''economically depressed areas.''
The Court of Appeals ruled that the executive order was an ''unlawful usurpation'' of legislative authority, Justice Cohen said. He pointed out that the City Council later adopted legislation that reinstated the program to aid local enterprises.
Justice Cohen's decision grew out of a lawsuit that a contractor, L. K. Comstock & Company, filed after a city agency withheld payment of $179,000 for the company's electrical work in the construction of the South Street Seaport. The payment was one of several withheld on the ground that contractors had failed to comply with the trainee provisions of Executive Order No. 50.
The executive order, Justice Cohen said, provided for a training program that required contractors to make ''a good-faith effort to achieve the ratio of one trainee to four journey-level employees of each craft on each construction project.''
 
Trainee Provisions
Commenting on the judge's decision, Mr. Zimroth said it barred the city from enforcing the trainee provisions of the executive order for city construction projects. But he said the decision did not apply to state-assisted projects in the city because the State Legislature has passed a law authorizing the Mayor to use part of the program for construction receiving state benefits, like tax incentives.
The trainee program is both effective and constitutional, Mr. Zimroth said, noting that it is based on economic disadvantage, not race, while most of its beneficiaries are minority members.
The director of the city's Bureau of Labor Services, Oliver J. Gray, said the city needed the trainee program because there was still a ''significant problem'' of getting minority members and women into the skilled construction trades.
He said the program had succeeded in bringing more than 1,000 trainees into the industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS488210 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR RAIL TRANSPORTATION (62%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (62%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (62%); SIC1731 ELECTRICAL WORK (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RAILWORKS CORP (62%); LK COMSTOCK & CO INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); FINANCES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); CONTRACTS MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); CITIES (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); RACE & RACISM (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (61%); RELIGION (61%); 

PERSON: LUBASCH, ARNOLD H; COHEN, LEONARD N (JUSTICE); KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR)



65 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

Companies
 
McKinsey is seeking the Information Consulting Group, which was created last year by several executives from Arthur Andersen and other accounting firms. The move is a sign of the growing importance of information technology and systems-related expertise in general management consulting. [Page D1.] 
 
Florida laws that prohibit accountants from soliciting business were ruled unconstitutional in a suit brought by a West Palm Beach accountant. [D2.]
 
The Economy
 
Public officials are not dealing with the capital gains issue as a question of tax policy and its consequences, but rather as one of political principle - and they are using misleading statistics in the process. News Analysis. [D1.] The Senate majority leader predicted he could marshal enough votes to block passage of the House's plan to reduce the capital gains tax rate. [D7.]
 
Few Wall Street executives and real estate developers think the capital gains reduction, if passed by the Senate, will have any significant impact on their business or on stock prices. [D7.]
 
The stock market showed surprising strength and resilience over the last three months, advancing on takeover activity and encouraging economic data, despite an unstable ''junk bond'' market and expectations of lower corporate profits. [D1.]
 
International
 
Competitive international telephone service has come to Japan. After four years of preparation, two new competitors for a longtime Government-approved monopoly tossed switches that connected them to every telephone in Japan. Instantly, telephoning the U.S. became, in some cases, 20 percent cheaper than calling from the U.S. to Japan. [D1.]
 
Investment bankers say the Japanese are more discerning in their American acquisitions. Deals like Sony-Columbia Pictures are growing rarer, they say. [D1.]
 
The stock markets of Japan, the U.S. and Britain grew by about 10 percent in dollar terms for the third quarter. Stocks in Austria, Hong Kong and New Zealand shone, while share prices in Finland sagged. [D8.]
 
The Media Business So far the only parties aggressively ringing alarm bells over Sony's entrance into American television are the three networks, which see a lobbying opportunity. Television. [D10.]
 
The Hartford Courant is trying to offer hometown coverage -and attract hometown advertising - in 82 towns from Long Island Sound to the Massachusetts border. [D10.]
 
The Sunday Correspondent is Britain's first new national Sunday paper at the serious end of the market since The Sunday Telegraph was started in 1961. In many areas around London, the first issue on Sept. 17 was a sellout. [D10.]
 
Since last year, at least 10 publishers have added either divisions or lines of children's books. [D10.]
 
Marketers should build better bridges to their customers and each other if they want to survive the 1990's, FCB/Leber Katz says. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D11.]
 
 Today's Columns
 
A tax provision intended to prevent affluent families from escaping gift and estate taxes has prompted many anguished protests from tax professionals. Tax Watch. [D2.]
 
Investors are more bullish on stocks, but the fund managers who invest the money seem to be having a harder time finding values. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
 
Long-term interest rates could continue to rise in coming weeks, analysts say. Credit Markets. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (92%); FCB/LEBER KATZ PARTNERS (50%); 

SUBJECT: No Index Terms NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAKEOVERS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FAMILY (76%); GIFT TAX (75%); LOBBYING (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); BONDS (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (51%); 



66 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Post Solid Gain in Quarter

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Over the last three months, the stock market showed surprising strength and resilience, advancing on takeover activity and on encouraging economic data, despite an unstable ''junk bond'' market and expectations of lower corporate profits.
''The big excitement in the third quarter was usually the takeover and restructuring plays,'' said Michael Metz, portfolio strategist for Oppenheimer & Company. ''Generally the market gave a pretty good performance until early September, and then it foundered.''
On the New York Stock Exchange, the Spain Fund, a closed-end fund that invests in the booming Spanish market, rose 168.4 percent as Japanese investors bought it heavily. The fund, which was the largest percentage gainer on the exchange in the quarter, has been valued at a hefty premium to its asset value. 
 
Similar Funds Thrive
The sharp rise in the Spain Fund pulled up other single-country funds. The Germany Fund ended the quarter with a 67.7 percent gain. On the American Stock Exchange, the First Iberian Fund posted an 84.5 percent gain.
Leading the Big Board losers was the Lomas Financial Corporation of Dallas, which lost 77.1 percent of its market value and ended the third quarter at $2 a share. Late last month, Lomas became one of the largest financial services companies to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Act. It halted payments on $2.1 billion of debt held by 47 creditors.
On the American Stock Exchange, the biggest loser was Sorg Inc., a financial printer that also filed for bankruptcy protection in the quarter. The company never fully recovered from the drop in financial printing after the October 1987 stock market collapse.
The biggest gainer on the Amex was the Graham Corporation, a Batavia, N.Y., company that designs vacuum and heat transfer industrial equipment. The company, which rose 235.8 percent, to end the quarter at $37.375, reported sharply higher second-quarter profits and announced that it would resume its quarterly dividend payment of 5 cents a share.
In the quarter, advancing stocks on the Big Board, the Amex, and the over-the-counter market led declining issues 3,124 to 1,880, with 275 unchanged, according to Media General Financial Services.
On the New York Stock Exchange, rising stocks led losers by a margin of more than 2 to 1, with 1,038 up, 513 down and 54 unchanged. In the over-the-counter market, 1,692 were up, 1,064 were down and 189 unchanged. On the Amex, 394 stocks rose and 303 fell, with 32 unchanged.
On the over-the-counter market, Energy Ventures Inc., a Houston oil and gas exploration company, was the largest gainer. The stock had a 200 percent gain, ending at $37.50, after a London investment firm increased its stake in the company.
The big over-the-counter loser was the Pantera's Corporation, which fell 90 percent, to end the quarter at 50 cents after the St. Louis fast-food restaurant company filed for bankruptcy protection.
 
Dow Industrials Up 10.36%
Despite a slight decline in September, the market made strong gains in the third quarter, which ended Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 10.36 percent for the quarter, and 24.17 for the year to date. The Dow fell slightly in September, largely because of jitters in the high-yield junk bond market that depressed stock prices, particularly those of takeover stocks.
The junk bond market was seriously rattled after the Campeau Corporation, a Canadian developer, defaulted on some of the interest on debt it accumulated to acquire two major United States retailers in a leveraged buyout.
''Notwithstanding September's moderate decline, it has been a good quarter,'' said Steven Einhorn, chief portfolio strategist for Goldman, Sachs & Company. ''It was an admirable showing given the turmoil that developed in the junk and L.B.O. markets. September should be viewed as a slight interruption.''
Mr. Einhorn added that despite these weaknesses, the market's advance was still on solid ground.
Positive economic data helped to maintain investors' faith in the market, analysts said. Among these, the unemployment figures for August were lower than many expected, while inflation appeared to be under control.
''The economy demonstrated that we're not going into a recession for 1989,'' said Monte Gordon, an analyst with the Dreyfus Corporation. ''The inflation risks obviously have been overblown, and the dollar has not lost its allure and attractiveness to foreign investors.''
Takeover activity also propelled the market for much of the quarter. One of the biggest areas of activity was in the airline industry, where the UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines, was bid for by Marvin Davis, a California financier. UAL, which advanced 102.2 percent, was the third-largest gainer on the Big Board, ending the quarter at $282. The airline has agreed to a $6.7 billion buyout by members of management, employees, and British Airways. The deal is subject to approavl by Federal regulators.
The activity in the stock of UAL and other airline companies, like NWA Inc., parent of Northwest Airlines, drove the Dow transportation average to record highs. The transportation average gained 49.51 percent in the quarter and was the center of attention for most of the last three months.
 
Losses for Braniff
One airline stock that posted heavy losses for the quarter was Braniff Inc., which was among the biggest losers on the over-the-counter market. Braniff filed for Chapter 11 protection at the end of September, after the company reported a severe cash shortage.
Among the other takeover stocks that were big gainers were the Anchor Glass Container Corporation of Tampa, Fla., which advanced 68.1 percent to end the quarter at $19.125. That gain was the eighth-largest on the Big Board. The money-losing glassmaker received an offer of $20 a share, or $280 million, from Vitro S.A., a Mexican company. Although the Anchor board has resisted the tender offer, analysts have said they expect the company to accept it, helping to push up the stock price.
Another big gainer was the Squibb Corporation of Princeton, N.J., which announced that it would merge with the Bristol-Myers Company. The deal, valued at about $12 billion, would create one of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies. Squibb jumped 66.8 percent in the quarter, to close at $127. That was the 10th-largest percentage gain on the New York Stock Exchange.
In addition to Lomas, several other financial services companies were among heavy Big Board losers. The Financial Corporation of Santa Barbara, a savings and loan association that suffered heavy losses, lost nearly half of its market value in the third quarter. It was the fifth-largest percentage loser on the Big Board.
Integrated Resources Inc., which lost 43.8 percent of its market value, was the seventh-largest loser on the New York Stock Exchange. The financial services company, which has replaced its management, defaulted on $955 million in outstanding debt and filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this year.

GRAPHIC: Chart of biggest gainers on New York Stock Exchange during third quarter of 1989 (Source: Media General Financial Services Inc.) (pg. D1); chart of biggest losers on NYSE during 1989 third quarter; chart of biggest gainers and losers on the Nasdaq during 1989 third quarter; chart of biggest gainers and losers on American Stock Exchange during 1989 third quarter (Source: Media General Financial Services Inc.) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GHM (NYSE MKT) (82%); WH4 (FRA) (80%); WFT (SWX) (80%); WFT (PAR) (80%); WFT (NYSE) (80%); PZZI (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333912 AIR & GAS COMPRESSOR MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3563 AIR & GAS COMPRESSORS (82%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (80%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GRAHAM CORP (82%); WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL LTD (80%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (72%); LOMAS FINANCIAL CORP (68%); PIZZA INN HOLDINGS INC (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (96%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYS); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (ASE)

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; OVER-THE-COUNTER TRADING STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BONDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (50%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D



67 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Europe Takes On Auto Pollution

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
With environmental concerns rising and the influence of the European Community growing, the nations of Western Europe have begun to take united action to curb air pollution from automobiles.
In June, environmental ministers from the community's 12 member nations agreed to impose emission standards for new small cars in 1992 similar to those in place in the United States since 1983. In general, Europe has lagged well behind the United States in auto emissions rules.
In addition, there is talk about tightening the currently lax pollution standards for trucks and other heavy-duty vehicles and imposing a communitywide speed limit. Some countries are taking or considering other actions, like tolls at the entrances to big cities, expanded rail and bus systems and restrictions on driving in congested areas. 
There are currently no mandatory communitywide standards for emissions from small and medium-size cars which account for 60 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of the approximately 10 million cars a year sold in Western Europe. Standards for large cars are scheduled to go into effect on Oct. 1, but some countries, notably Britain, are resisting them.
The attitudes of European governments toward auto emissions have varied greatly in the past. In countries like Britain, France, Italy, Portugal and Greece relative indifference reigned until recently, and smaller cars with polution control systems were a rarity there.
But in some countries the damage to forests and other parts of the environment by auto emissions has increased the strength of the environmental movement and encouraged stiffer regulations. These countries, including West Germany, Scandinavia, Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands, have encouraged the use of unleaded gasoline as a precursor to other actions to reduce pollution.
Since lead in gasoline poisons the catalytic converters that are essential to most pollution removal systems, the switch to unleaded fuel needs to be made before emissions standards are toughened.
West Germany and the Netherlands have tax breaks and lower fees for cleaner cars. By Oct. 1, 1990, all new cars sold in Denmark will have to meet American-style emissions standards. In the last year or two, emission standards like America's have also gone into effect for all new cars in Austria, Sweden, Switzerland and Norway, which belong to the European Free Trade Association.
In Britain, some auto companies are trying to make cleaner air a selling point. Both Volvo and Audi announced this summer that they would offer catalytic converters on their cars in Britain at no extra charge. Car makers have been charging as much as $1,300 extra for vehicles equipped with pollution control systems that include converters.
 
Royalty in the Act
The royal family has also gotten into the act by spending what industry executives say must have been a royal sum to retrofit its vehicles to use unleaded fuel. That example, and a tax change that widened the price advantage of unleaded over leaded, have increased unleaded's share of the market to about 25 percent from 5 percent in the spring.
Motorists who stray from main highways in countries like France, Spain, Portugal and Greece may still have trouble finding unleaded fuel but industry executives expect that circumstance to change over time as the community pushes national governments to make unleaded widely available.
Other governments have followed Britain's lead by using taxes to make unleaded gasoline cheaper, but it has taken some time to find out how great a differential was needed to stimulate demand. Unleaded now retails for 10 to 20 cents a gallon less than leaded in many Western European countries.
 
Lead in the Environment
Europeans are still pouring a lot of lead into the environment, compared with the United States, where removal of lead has been a national objective since the late 1960's. In the European Community, lead emissions from vehicles totaled 23,891 tons last year, according to Dr. Ian Berwick, director general of the United Kingdom Petroleum Industry Association. Just 3,306 tons were emitted in the United States in 1987, compared with 123,865 tons in 1978.
The impetus behind these actions is a growing public concern about the environment in Western Europe, where water and air quality is sometimes worse than in America. ''Air quality in large European cities is comparable to that of some of the worst cities in the United States, including Houston, Denver and New York City,'' said Paul M. Stolpman, director of the pollution control division of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
The growing environmental sensitivity of European public officials has been linked to the increasing power of the Green Party and similar political groups. The Greens have long been a force in West Germany and Belgium, and they amazed political analysts by winning 15 percent of the British vote in the elections for the European Parliament last June.
 
Green Movement Strengthens
''The situation has changed dramatically as the Green movement has gained force,'' said John Phelps, technical manager of the International Organization of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers in Paris.
Another important factor is the approach of 1992, the year that trade barriers within the community are due to be dismantled. At that time differing emissions standards may be regarded as barriers to trade. So if West Germany wants to get tough on automotive pollution, it has to persuade the rest of the community to go along, which could result in stiffer requirements all over.
In addition, if one nation unilaterally takes action, it risks putting its auto industry at a competitive disadvantage, said Russell Seal, head of the British Petroleum Company's refining and marketing operations. While a catalytic converter itself costs auto makers only about $80, the cost of the fuel-injection and engine-management systems needed on cars with catalytic converters runs into hundreds of dollars.
Indeed, small-car buyers may also be in for sticker shock when the community rules go into effect. Experts say catalytic converters and related engine changes will add $500 to $800 to the price of each vehicle.
 
Debating Further Steps
Even though the community's emission standards are not due to go fully into effect until 1992, government and industry officials and environmentalists are already debating further steps to cut auto pollution.
Mr. Seal of British Petroleum predicts that the European oil industry will quickly follow the lead of the Atlantic Richfield Company in the United States in offering reformulated gasoline that reduces pollution.
Because of traffic congestion and concerns about global warming, there is also talk, and some action, on lowering speed limits, spending more on rail systems and buses, and increasing restrictions on car use. The European Community plans to take up the issue of a communitywide speed limit. But the Germans, who are passionate about having no speed limits on their main highways, have opposed the idea.
Other efforts to reduce congestion are also under way. For instance, Oslo, the capital of Norway, plans to build a system of toll gates at approaches to the city to discourage driving. To avoid long delays, the system will be electronic, with motorists buying passes that can be read quickly at the tolls.
Manchester, England, recently announced plans to build an ambitious commuter rail system. And Britain's opposition Labor Party last week proposed higher taxes for vehicle use, taxing the use of company cars, restricting car use in central cities at peak hours and improving rail, bus and subway services.

GRAPHIC: The nations of Western Europe are moving to curb air pollution from automobile emissions. On a highway outside London, traffic moves through a heavy smog. (NYT/Jonathan Player)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (90%); AUSTRIA (88%); FRANCE (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); GREECE (78%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (78%); PORTUGAL (78%); DENMARK (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (73%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; AIR POLLUTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION VEHICLE EMISSIONS (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LEAD (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SPEED LIMITS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); BRITISH ROYALTY (71%); GASOLINE (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX RELIEF (68%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (54%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN



68 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: A Price War In Japan on Foreign Calls

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 1

 BODY:
One of the most expensive services in Japan, the land of $70 watermelons, $150 cab rides and camera gear that costs twice as much as in New York, is making international telephone calls. But this weekend, a price war broke out.
Since well before World War II, Japan has been connected to the outside world by a single Government-approved monopoly. And for as long as most of Japan's notoriously docile consumers can remember, it has always cost far more to call from Tokyo to the United States than the other way around. 
That all ended this morning. After four years of preparation, two new competitors in international telephone service tossed switches that connected them to every telephone in Japan. Instantly, telephoning to the United States became, in some cases, 20 percent cheaper than calling Japan from the United States.
 
Enormous Profits Cited
''Maybe this will demonstrate to the Japanese that things here do not always have to be more expensive than they are everyplace else in the world,'' said Nobuo Ito, the executive vice president of International Telecom Japan Inc., one of the fledgling competitors. ''Japanese industry makes enormous profits by simply overpricing everything here. Maybe this will encourage them to set some reasonable prices.''
Few share Mr. Ito's optimism that a new era is dawning for Japanese consumers, because Japanese industry usually abhors competing on price. Discount houses and department store sales are rare. Manufacturers of video cameras and fax machines, for example, pack more and more options into their goods rather than lower the price of each new generation of equipment.
Earlier this week Japan's Economic Planning Agency issued a devastating report on the high cost of living, attributing much of it to Japan's distribution system, Government subsidies to the rice industry and unnecessary add-on services that require more personnel in department stores.
The arrival of competitive international telephone service comes at a politically fortuitious moment. It happened just as the Bush Administration was pressing Japan to give its own consumers a break - a theme that a parade of United States officials have struck here in recent weeks in their efforts to spur demand for American goods.
But no one expected a price war, an event so rare here that it has a lot of people openly nervous. And the most nervous may be the top officers of KDD, formerly known as the Kokusai Denshin Denwa Company, which has held the monopoly on international communications services since 1871, when the first telegraph cable was laid between Nagasaki and Shanghai.
''We've never faced any competition before, and even though we had time to prepare it is quite a shock,'' Takazo Ishii, the president of KDD, said last week at the company's office tower in Tokyo. Company officials fear that a plan to cut KDD's staff by 20 percent over the next few years may not be enough.
 
Size of Cut a Surprise
''We could not expect that prices would fall this fast,'' Mr. Ishii added. Apparently, no one at KDD, which had $1.95 billion in revenues last year, expected the competition to start its service with prices that undercut KDD by more than 23 percent.
And when KDD last week announced a price cut to take effect in a month, it was accused of attempting to kill off its competition. Mr. Ishii responded that it was unreasonable to expect KDD not to react competitively.
Only 10 years ago, KDD charged more than $15 for a prime-time three-minute call to the United States, about 50 percent more than the American Telephone and Telegraph Company's charges for calls to Japan. Under Government pressure, KDD's prices have fallen gradually but steadily.
It is too early to say how much of a market share International Telecom and the other competitor, International Digital Communications, will capture. Each company says it needs 10 or 15 percent to prove truly viable.
 
Drive for Clients Is Starting
And now the race to attract customers is on. When service started this morning, a three-minute call to the United States on one of the services ranged from less than $3 to about $4.85, depending on the time of day. KDD's prime-time rate is $6.35, though it was forced to announce the major cut last week that will take effect in a month. By comparison, A.T.&T. charges $6.02 for a prime-time three-minute call, and $3.78 for its least costly call.
For all the Japanese reluctance to offer discounts, price may be the only way to differentiate among competitors in telephone service. All use the same methods of transmission - the same Intelsat satellites and the same undersea fiber-optic cables to the United States. The only difference is that users of the two new communications companies have a significantly higher chance that their calls will go across the fiber-optic cable.
That should work to the favor of the new entries because the cable provides far clearer connections than the satellites. For now, however, the two upstarts are only connecting to a limited number of countries, with most those where calling volume is highest.
 
'Skimming the Cream'
''They are simply skimming the cream of the business,'' said Mr. Ishii, who complained that KDD spent millions of dollars connecting Japan to low-volume locations like Africa.
But KDD can sustain competition much longer: The property it owns throughout Japan is worth hundreds of millions of dollars, including its office tower in Shinjuku, one of Tokyo's most expensive business neighborhoods. One competitors, in contrast, is in rental space opposite Tokyo's fish market.
Interestingly, Japanese regulators who examined the breakup of the Bell System have chosen a far different approach in promoting competition in their own telephone network. During the Bell breakup, customers had to select a primary long-distance service. That led to expensive campaigns by companies like the MCI Communications Corporation and the U S Sprint Communications Company, with each viewing it as essential to ''lock in'' consumers to their service.
 
Choice Made by Dialing a Code
In Japan, consumers vote every time they pick up the telephone. By dialing a three-digit number, they get KDD. But by dialing a different code they get the alternative services, which bill them automatically at the end of the month. ''Compared to the efforts and hardships that MCI and Sprint went through, we consider ourselves very lucky,'' said Mr. Ito of International Telecom. ''But we only have one chance. If people place a call and the quality is bad, they will go back to KDD.''
For both competitors, the key to success will be their ability to draw big corporate users, although for both companies many of Japan's biggest corporations are already investors.
International Telecom's shareholders include holding companies like the Mitsubishi Corporation and the Sumitomo Corporation; trading companies like Mitsui & Company, the Marubeni Corporation and the Nisho Iwai Corporation; banks like the Bank of Tokyo, and electric companies like the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company and the Tokyo Electric Power Company. The other competitor, International Digital Communications, is primarily run by C. Itoh & Company, the Toyota Motor Company, Cable and Wireless of Britain and one American company, Pacific Telesis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (69%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (62%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL TELECOM JAPAN INC (69%); KOKUSAI DENSHIN DENWA CO LTD (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TELECOM; INTERNATIONAL DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS; KDD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; PRICES PRICE CUTTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); RETAIL SALES (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E



69 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Capital Gains: Politics and Poor Data

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
In the debate last week before the House of Representatives voted to lower the capital gains tax rate, both sides buttressed their positions with misleading statistics.
These tactics will doubtless continue as the debate shifts to the Senate. The Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, has been highly critical of the House's approval of the plan, which is backed by President Bush. The Maine Democrat said today that he could marshal the votes to block the House plan, although he acknowledged that some form of a capital gains tax reduction was likely to win approval. [Page D7.] The public officials are not dealing with a question of tax policy and its consequences, but rather with one of political principle. Many proponents of the tax cut, mostly Republicans, have long held on faith that tax breaks for the wealthy would lead to economic growth for all. Others, mostly Democrats, hold that the wealthy should pay more taxes to raise money to help those who are less well off.
Various arguments have been made in defense of the differing philosophies. 
Arguing that a capital gains tax reduction would benefit people of moderate means, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady told the Senate Finance Committee last week that about three-quarters of capital gains were generated by tax filers who had other income, like wages, interest and dividends, of less than $50,000. Capital gains are the profits from the sale of stocks, bonds, real estate and other assets. That proportion, Mr. Brady said, proved that a large share of capital gains represented one-time-only sales of businesses, farms and homes.
Richard G. Darman, President Bush's budget director, embellished the point. ''A vote against capital gains is a vote against farmers, small owners of timber stands, people who raise Christmas trees and a father who builds a little, say, submarine stand as a business and his children want to do something else and he may want to sell it,'' he told a news conference.
But according to the Internal Revenue Service, 76 percent of all the money from capital gains in 1987 went to filers with total incomes of more than $50,000. In that year, 68 percent of tax returns showing a capital gain were filed by people with total incomes below $50,000. But 89 percent of all tax returns were filed by people with total incomes below that level.
 
Calculation Not Challenged
The nonpartisan staff of the Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation calculated that 60 percent of the benefit from the measure approved by the House would go to the two-tenths of 1 percent of taxpayers with incomes over $200,000 and that 80 percent would go to the 1 percent of filers with incomes over $100,000. That calculation has not been challenged.
In 1985, the last year for which the data are available, 82 percent of the money received in capital gains was realized by taxpayers who sold more than one asset during the year. Mr. Brady's statistic, tax specialists said, reflected the fact that the income of many wealthy investors comes almost entirely from trading securities and did not primarily denote one-time sales of homes or businesses.
On the floor of the House, the main argument of the proponents of a lower capital gains rate was that it would help new business ventures raise capital by creating, in Mr. Brady's words, ''incentives for the kind of risk-taking that leads to new technology and a competitive edge.''
Yet the best year ever for new venture capital was 1987, the first year that capital gains were taxed at the same rate as other income.
 
Provided by Pension Funds
About half the venture capital that year was provided by tax-free pension funds. Much of the rest came from foreigners who do not pay United States income taxes or corporations, endowments and other institutions that would not be affected by a rate change. Individual investors, who would benefit from a lower rate, contributed less than 10 percent.
Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Finance Committee and is the chief Senate proponent of expanded individual retirement accounts, says his proposal would induce additional personal savings in the United States.
Yet from 1981 to 1986, the period when tax-deductible I.R.A.'s were available to all working Americans, the rate of personal savings in the country dropped sharply. It was about 4 percent in those years compared with an average postwar rate of about 7 percent.
Senator Bentsen also said his proposal would ''help average families,'' as opposed to the well-to-do. But the vast majority of taxpayers, people with incomes below $35,000 and couples with incomes below $50,000, are still entitled to tax-deductible I.R.A.'s.
 
Participation Is Small
Relatively few of them participate. A study in 1985, when all workers were entitled to I.R.A.'s, showed that 60 percent of taxpayers with incomes over $50,000 invested in I.R.A.'s, 30 percent of those with incomes of $30,000 to $50,000 and only a tiny fraction of those with lower incomes did. Yet the ''average'' American has an income below $30,000.
Why are such unreliable statistics bandied about? Because no reliable ones exist. Economists simply do not know how much a lower capital gains tax encourages investment, if at all, or whether I.R.A.'s significantly encourage savings or merely lead people to switch savings from a taxable account to a deductible one.
''The techniques we have to study these issues can't give you the answer,'' said Jane Gravelle, a senior specialist in economics and tax policy at the Library of Congress. ''These are just very tough problems to tackle empirically.''
But that does not stop public officials. No one in the House debate defended the short-term nature of the proposal, which would lower the tax rate to a maximum of 19.6 percent only through the end of 1991, after which it would rise to 28 percent. Currently, the top rate is 33 percent, with taxpayers with incomes over about $200,000 paying 28 percent.
 
Provision Aided Passage
The supporters conceded that a temporary rate cut would be bad policy. They said they hoped the lower rate would be extended and acknowledged that they had put a temporary rate in the legislation only because it was the only way they could get enough votes for passage.
That is because at a time when lawmakers are looking for painless ways to cut the budget deficit, a temporary capital gains tax reduction would raise revenue in the short run because people would rush to sell securities to take advantage of the lower rate while it was available. The policy would cost the Government revenue in the long term, most experts believe, because the same assets would not be sold later.
Representative Bob Michel of Illinois, the House Republican leader, made the right point about tax policy and political principle. ''Ultimately,'' he told the House, ''this is a struggle not between two policies but between two philosophies. The Democratic leadership believes in redistributing the wealth.'' Those who favor a rate cut, he continued, ''believe in creating wealth.''
So, if they really want to take from the rich and give to the poor, why are most Democrats supporting expanded I.R.A.'s? Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, the Democrat most knowledgeable about tax policy, had a politician's answer: ''You can't beat something with nothing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (88%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION CAPITAL GAINS TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (78%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); 



70 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Insurers With a Niche Favored by an Acquirer

BYLINE: By Daniel F. Cuff

 BODY:
David J. Stone, a practitioner of the management buyout, thinks the insurance industry offers opportunities to acquire companies for prices that are not outlandish, and his company, DJS/Inverness, is on the lookout for insurance companies that have a niche in their industry.
In fact, DJS/Inverness is acquiring the Penncorp Financial group of companies from the Primerica Corporation for $300 million, a deal announced last week. Penncorp's niche is that it is one of the few life insurers that still sells policies door-to-door, Mr. Stone said. 
Mr. Stone said his company's philosophy was to make management ''a very significant owner in the company.'' He added, ''We may have to lend them the money to allow them to do it, but we want them very invested.''
The company has also done some deals in the restaurant business, an industry where it believes ''success and failure depends on the quality and morale of management,'' as Mr. Stone put it.
How does insurance management fit in? As for Penncorp, he said, ''You have agents knocking on doors and dealing with rejection every day. Management is absolutely critical in that business'' to keep such a sales force enthusiastic.
Mr. Stone's company, of which he is president, has participated in the buyouts of Jerrico Inc., operator of Long John Silver Seafood Shoppes, and the Steak & Ale Restaurant chain. It also structured and participated in the acquisition of CBS Magazines by Diamandis Communications.
Mr. Stone, 46, was born in Britain. He came to this country in 1963, joined Mobil and got a Ph.D at New York University, where he taught economics. During his careeer, he was also an economist at W. R. Grace, a vice president at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and an executive at the Commercial Union Leasing Company and at Carl Lindner's Great American Insurance Company.
AT D.L.J., where he was responsible for leveraged leasing and private placements, Mr. Stone met William M. McCormick, 49, who also worked there. Mr. McCormick, a former chief executive of the Fireman's Fund, is today part of the buyout group of Penncorp and will be chief executive once the deal is completed.
Mr. Stone started his own firm in 1977. The Inverness in the DJS/Inverness title refers to a company one of his senior associates ran before joining with Mr. Stone. One senior officer in the company is Mr. Stone's wife, Sara. They have a son and a daughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); GRA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (66%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (64%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%); JERRICO INC (66%); LONG JOHN SILVER'S INC (66%); UNION LEASING CO LTD (64%); GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE CO (64%); SOUTHWESTERN LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); W R GRACE & CO (53%); FIREMAN'S FUND INSURANCE CO (52%); FIREMAN'S FUND RISK MANAGEMENT SERVICES INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENNCORP FINANCIAL; DJS/INVERNESS & CO; PRIMERICA CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES INSURANCE (94%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (76%); SALES FORCE (75%); SALES & SELLING (75%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%); 

PERSON: STONE, DAVID J; CUFF, DANIEL F WILLIAM M MCCORMICK (64%); 



71 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Rise in Rates Seen as Temporary

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Credit market analysts say that long-term interest rates, which have tested the upper limits of a 7.75 to 8.25 percent range recently, could move higher still in coming weeks.
But any rise is likely to be short-lived, these analysts said, predicting that rates would move lower as additional signs of a slowing economy emerge during the fourth quarter.
The cautious near-term assessment is based on expectations about coming economic reports. The numbers are apt to show that the economy remained fairly strong in September, and that inflation, dormant for much of the summer, has reawakened. 
''The market is going to have to struggle through some strong statistics over the next couple of weeks,'' said John R. Williams, a managing director in the global markets economics department at the Bankers Trust Company.
''The September employment report will be strong,'' Mr. Williams continued, ''and because of rising energy prices the next producer price report, which is due out Oct. 13, is likely to be higher than it has been over the past few months. An uptick in market interest rates is certainly possible.''
Last week, long-term bond yields briefly rose above 8.25 percent for the first time since late June. The rise was not sustained, however, and by late Friday the Treasury's bellwether 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price to yield 8.23 percent.
Most economists predict that the employment report, scheduled for Friday, should show nonfarm payroll employment increasing by about 300,000 last month, with continued growth in the service sector. The rise would include about 76,000 striking telephone workers who returned to their jobs in September.
An increase of that size would make it difficult for the Federal Reserve Board's policy-making Open Market Committee, which meets in Washington tomorrow and Wednesday, to consider easing its grip on monetary policy.
''We do not expect the F.O.M.C. meeting to result in any change in money market conditions,'' Elliott Platt, chief economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, wrote in the firm's weekly economic commentary. ''The overnight Federal funds rate will consequently be left at 9 percent, and that may very well be the funds rate target prevailing over the balance of the year.''
 
Others Expect Shift
A number of analysts do not share that view, and say that economic weakness in the fourth quarter will persuade the Fed to ease policy.
''We are experiencing a spike in rates, which may last until late October,'' said Victor Chang, president of the VC Manangement Company. ''By then we may see the light for another downshift in rates. We have borrowed against retail sales in the fourth quarter, and business spending in the third quarter was not as strong as it has been in previous periods.''
The automotive sector, which during the summer was a vigorous contributor to employment and retail sales, is of particular concern.
Recent developments in Detroit have shown that the auto manufacturers are worried, too. Even before the 1990 models are introduced, General Motors and Ford said last week that they would offer rebates on their new cars.
''Paint the auto picture black in the fourth quarter,'' said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank. ''If car sales turn out as the companies think, let alone some of the industry analysts, that will have an impact on factory hours worked and on capital spending.''
The auto industry is not the only business that is having trouble in raising prices. And, while that development bodes well for inflation, it may not be beneficial to the economy.
 
'Hurts Profits'
''Businesses can only cut prices for so long before it hurts profits, and we are beginning to see that,'' said Paul L. Kasriel, a vice president and monetary economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. ''After a while, they will have to cut output.''
Any further evidence of weakness in the manufacturing sector is likely to persuade the Fed to ease policy futher, Mr. Kasriel said. Indeed, even though the central bank has lowered the Fed funds rate by 75 basis points since May, he maintained that Fed policy had remained extremely tight.
When movements in the Consumer Price Index are subtracted from the Federal funds rate, real interest rates had risen to 7.5 percent in August from 4 percent in the first quarter, Mr. Kasriel said. To make the overnight funds rate comparable to the Consumer Price Index, movement in the funds rate was compounded at an annual rate.
''In other times when the industrial sector has weakened, the real Fed funds rate has declined,'' Mr. Kasriel said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (56%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



72 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Is Selling Only Bills This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of new issues for this week is confined to today's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills.
By late Friday, the three-month bill was bid at 7.90 percent, and the six-month bill was at 7.87 percent.
Tomorrow the Federal National Mortgage Association plans to announce the interest rate for a $700 million 10-year bond issue. The Fannie Mae issue features an Oct. 11, 1994 call provision. 
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
WEDNESDAY
Atlantic City Electric Co., $135 million in first-mortgage bonds, due 2019, A-/A-1/A+. Competitive.
Philadelphia Electric and refunding-mortgage bonds, due 2019, and $75 million in first- and refunding-mortgage bonds, due 2004, BBB-/ Baa-3/BBB-. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Coastal Corp., Houston, $200 million in senior debentures, due 2004, NR/Baa-3/BBB-. Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
Continental Airlines, $150 million in senior notes, due 1994, and equipment trust certificates. Drexel Burnham Lambert.
Kirby Exploration Co., $50 million in convertible subordinated debentures, due 2014, NR/Ba-3/BBB-. Paine Webber Inc.
Lewis Galoob Toys Inc., San Francisco, 1.75 million shares of $20 depositary convertible exchangeable preferred. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Midway Airlines, Chicago, two million shares of $25 convertible exchangeable preferred stock, rated B-2 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
Sears Credit Account Trust 1989-D, $250 million in pass-through certificates, due 1993, NR/Aaa/AAA. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
Sysco Corp., Houston, $330 million (face amount) in liquid yield option notes, due 2004, NR/Baa-1/BBB+. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Westpac Banking Corp., Australia, eight million American depository shares (representing $25 preference stock), NR/A-1/A+. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Source: McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei Inc.
Ratings: MCM/Moody's/Standard & Poor's.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
New York State, $90.5 million in certificates of participation. Competitive.
Pennsylvania, $550 million in notes. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
California Housing Finance Agency, $78.8 million in single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Detroit, $65.5 million in sewerage system revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Illinois, $200 million in general obligation college savings bonds. First Chicago Capital Markets Inc.
Illinois Health Facilities Authority, $55 million in revenue bonds. Ziegler Securities.
Massachusetts Health and Education Facilities Authority, $71.1 million in revenue bonds for Harvard University. Goldman, Sachs.
Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency, $60 million in single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Paine Webber.
Port Everglades, Fla., $50 million in port facilities revenue bonds. Bear, Stearns.
Salt Lake City, $4.7 billion in Housing Authority multifamily housing revenue refunding bonds. First Security Bank of Utah N.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); KEX (NYSE) (68%); SYY (NYSE) (65%); WBK (NYSE) (64%); WBC (NZX) (64%); WBC (ASX) (64%); UAL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (71%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (71%); NAICS483211 INLAND WATER FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (65%); NAICS424420 PACKAGED FROZEN FOOD MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (65%); NAICS424130 INDUSTRIAL & PERSONAL SERVICE PAPER MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (64%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); ATLANTIC CITY ELECTRIC CO (71%); KIRBY CORP (68%); LEWIS GALOOB TOYS INC (67%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (66%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (66%); SYSCO CORP (65%); WESTPAC BANKING CORP (64%); FIRST CHICAGO CAPITAL MARKETS INC (61%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); MASSACHUSETTS HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (50%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); AIRLINES (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (60%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (60%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (60%); 



73 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Senator Predicts Defeat for Tax Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
In unusually blunt language, the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, predicted today that he could marshal enough votes to block passage of the House-approved reduction in the capital gains tax rate.
''I'm positive we can prevent that plan from passing,'' said Mr. Mitchell, a Maine Democrat, of the measure passed by the House in a 239-to-190 vote on Thursday. That vote was a significant victory for President Bush, who backs the measure. 
''It is so bad, so wrong for the economy,'' Mr. Mitchell said on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' adding, ''It will do for the deficit what crack does for the user: a quick, short high followed by a long, painful depression.''
 
Senate Momentum Is Strong
But Mr. Mitchell acknowledged that momentum in the Senate for some form of capital gains tax reduction is so strong that an alternative measure could win approval.
''Whether some modified plan will pass will depend upon the nature of the plan,'' he said. ''I think the vote there will be very close.''
The House-passed cut would lower the top capital gains rate to 19.6 percent from 33 percent for two years, after which it would rise to 28 percent. The reduction would apply to income from sales of stocks, bonds, real estate and some other assets. Gains from the sales of works of art, coins and other collectibles would be excluded from the reduction and would continue to be taxed at the same rate as ordinary income.
Mr. Mitchell did not indicate what provisions an alternative plan might have, although he said such a measure would include a proposal to restore the tax deductibility of individual retirement accounts. That proposal was put forward by House Democratic leaders last week and rejected in the vote adopting the Bush-backed plan.
 
Weighing the Alternatives
Senate Democrats are considering several types of capital gains proposals. Among them are measures that would restrict the cut to investments in high-risk start-up ventures, create categories of assets that would be subject to different tax rates or tie the tax rate to the length of time an asset has been held.
Some Senate Republicans do not like the two-year cut approved by the House and are seeking to make the reduction permanent.
Mr. Mitchell, who is opposed to any reduction in capital gains taxes, blamed President Bush for creating the environment that made a reduction likely in some form.
''Unfortunately, given the irresponsible position the President has taken,'' he said, ''it makes it extremely difficult to prevent any tax cut from occurring.''
On other topics, House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, appearing on the same program, predicted that the catastrophic health care program for elderly Americans would probably be repealed in a vote this week.

GRAPHIC: The Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, predicted yesterday that he could marshal enough votes to block passage of the House-approved reduction in the capital gains tax rate. He appeared on a television program with Speaker of the House Thomas S. Foley. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STARTUPS (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); BONDS (72%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (64%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (62%); HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID; MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN) GEORGE J MITCHELL (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



74 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
World Stock Markets Gained in 3d Quarter

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
With few exceptions and little variation, stock markets around the world posted strong gains in the third quarter.
The world's three largest markets - Japan, the United States and Britain - all grew by about 10 percent in dollar terms for the quarter through Sept. 28, and smaller markets followed. Stocks in Austria, Hong Kong and New Zealand shone, while share prices in Finland sagged, according to Morgan Stanley & Company's index of foreign stock markets.
Moderate inflation and economic growth worldwide appeared to be more important than any single political or economic event, said Mark H. Sladkus, a vice president at Morgan Stanley. ''Usually, you can at least put a highlight,'' he said, adding that the narrow range around 10 percent within which most countries posted results was also surprising. 
Weighting stock markets by size and excluding dividends, Morgan Stanley's world index of 20 countries climbed 8.7 percent in local currencies and 10.6 percent in dollar terms, as a falling dollar increased the value of foreign share price gains for American investors.
The index had risen 3.1 percent in local currencies for the second quarter, and 5.3 percent in the first quarter. Wall Street gained 9.5 percent for the third quarter.
 
Renewed Interest in Japan
The Japanese market managed an 8.7 percent gain in yen and an 11.1 percent rise in dollar terms. Japanese investors are showing renewed interest in buying shares in domestic companies as the growing volatility of currency markets makes the return on international investments less predictable, said Robert A. Brusca, the senior vice president and chief economist at Nikko Securities International Inc.
British stocks were up 6.2 percent in pounds and up 10 percent in dollar terms. The gain came despite high short-term interest rates as the British Government sought to dampen a boom in consumer credit, said Peter Wann, an economist in Paine Webber's London office.
Continued budget surpluses in Britain have prompted the Government to buy back and retire its bonds with longer maturities, Mr. Wann added. This has created a shortage of bonds and forced some institutions to buy equities, he pointed out.
The Paris Bourse had another strong quarter, gaining 12.8 percent in French francs and 17.2 percent in dollar terms. Stocks rose in anticipation of the lifting today of a rule that mutual funds must hold at least 30 percent of their assets in bonds, said Ricaldo Zavala, president of the international department at Magnin-Cordelle S.A., a Paris brokerage.
Strong corporate earnings and heavy Japanese investments also helped, he said. ''The main players were always the Americans and British'' until now, he said.
In West Germany, stocks climbed 9.5 percent in Deutsche marks and 13.6 percent in dollar terms. A boom in capital goods continues, said Jonathan M. Hoffman, an economist with Credit Suisse-First Boston Ltd. in London. A flood of immigrants from East Germany has pushed up prices of construction-industry stocks, as investors expect builders to find skilled employees more easily and benefit from greater demand for new housing.
 
Gains Led by Austria
Austrian stocks posted the quarter's best results by a wide margin, leaping 35.7 percent in Austrian schillings and 40.8 percent in dollar terms. Strong corporate earnings, new tax incentives for pension fund and insurance companies to invest at home and the growing likelihood that Austria will join the European Community all helped foster investor enthusiasm, said Fionnuala M. Corry, an Austrian equities analyst at Smith New Court P.L.C., a London brokerage firm.
The recent political thaw in Eastern Europe, possibly leading to an import boom for which Austria is well positioned, has also helped stocks, she said. ''You've got a lot of Austrians with a lot of experience in the Eastern bloc,'' she said.
In Spain, the Madrid Bolsa has been setting new highs for the last two weeks, said Juan Antonio Bertran, the director of equities trading and sales at Asesores Bursatiles S.A., a Madrid brokerage. Spain's four stock exchanges rose 6.4 percent in pesetas and 10.2 percent in dollars for the quarter. Institutional investors have been bidding up the shares of electrical utilities in particular, Mr. Bertran said.
 
Poor Results in Finland
The quarter's worst performers were Finnish stocks, which fell 13.6 percent in marks and 11.6 percent in dollars. Other Scandinavian stocks produced lackluster results. Finland's current account deficit has grown rapidly this year, raising fears that the Government may increase interest rates or take other steps to slow the economy, said Nigel G. Hugh-Smith, the director of European research at Hoare Govett Ltd., a London brokerage that is a subsidiary of the Security Pacific Bank.
Danish stocks fell 4.3 percent in krone after posting the biggest gains in the second quarter, while Norwegian stocks were up 3.2 percent and Swedish stocks rose 4.5 percent.
Belgian stocks were up 6.7 percent and Dutch stocks rose 6.8 percent in local currency terms. The Italian market gained 8.5 percent and the Swiss market was up 9.4 percent for the quarter. The Canadian market climbed 5.2 percent in Canadian dollars.
The Australian and New Zealand markets were up 12.8 percent and 22.2 percent respectively in their local currencies. Shares of Fletcher Challenge Ltd., a New Zealand conglomerate with extensive forest product operations, have done well, said Gavin R. Dobson, the president of United States operations for Murray Johnstone Ltd., a Scottish brokerage firm.
Stock markets in Malaysia and Singapore together rose 4.1 percent in terms of the Singaporean dollar and 3.9 percent in dollar terms, reflecting the strength of Southeast Asian economies, Mr. Dobson said.
The Hong Kong market rose 22.3 percent in Hong Kong dollar terms and 22.2 percent in United States dollar terms as that market partially recovered from heavy second-quarter losses that followed the military crackdown in Beijing.

GRAPHIC: Graph of market capitalization-weighted index for stock exchanges around the world for 1989 third quarter (Source: Morgan Stanley Capital International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (93%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); AUSTRIA (72%); FRANCE (66%); GERMANY (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (93%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (72%); EURONEXT PARIS SA (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); BUDGETS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CONSUMER LENDING (62%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH



75 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

Oct. 2, 1989, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
Running the Drug Dealers Out of Public Housing

BYLINE: By DEBORAH MARQUARDT

DATELINE: PORTSMOUTH, VA.

 BODY:
Since 1988, when the Federal Public Housing Drug Elimination Act authorized the eviction of tenants involved in illegal drug activity, this city of 110,000 people, like other cities across the country, has been using it as a major weapon in a war against drugs.
While old Department of Housing and Urban Development leases called for evicting tenants involved in criminal activity, the 1988 measure changed lease language to specifically allow the eviction of tenants, guests or family members who make, sell or use drugs or who possess with intent to make, sell, use or distribute drugs.
Tenants could challenge evictions through a Federal lease-grievance procedure. This required housing authorities to hold a hearing before going to court. But last April 30, the H.U.D. Secretary, Jack Kemp, authorized the waiving of the hearing, letting housing authorities go directly to court. 
He based his action on a 1983 amendment to the Federal Housing Act of 1937, which said a grievance hearing need not be held if a local or state jurisdiction could provide due process.
Virginia, where a police officer was killed in a raid on an Alexandria crack house near the end of March, applied for and was granted the first waiver, on March 30; 28 other states quickly followed suit and 20 states are awaiting waivers.
The only state without a waiver that is not seeking one is New York. In New York City, a different legal technique, with similar effect, is used.
Some Legal Aid lawyers and others involved in civil rights say the eviction rules unfairly punish the innocent.
''If you want to take care of the drug problem, take care of it, but don't sweep innocent people into the net,'' said Catherine Bishop of the National Housing Law Project in California, which is helping in a National Tenants Association suit challenging principally the waiver policy, but also the singling out of drug suspects for eviction.
''How about the grandmother raising her grandchildren and one of the kids gets involved with drugs - should that innocent grandmother have her housing in jeopardy?'' asked Alfred W. Bates 3d, a Portsmouth Legal Aid lawyer.
Ms. Bishop and Mr. Bates say family members evicted from one project often are blackballed from others, forcing them into the streets or crowded public shelters.
The National Tenants Organization appealed to Congress to stop the waivers and a rider attached to an unrelated measure put a moratorium on the granting of waivers, although it had no effect on waivers already in effect. H.U.D. attorneys say they are confident that legislation soon will be introduced to lift the moratorium.
''We know that tenant groups and tenant organizations are overwhelmingly in support of what we're doing,'' said a H.U.D. lawyer, Frank Keating. ''In general, H.U.D.'s lease and grievance procedure is an impediment to removing drug dealers.''
Housing authority officials have said that the change let them increase and speed up evictions. For example:
* In Massachussetts, which has a waiver, the Boston Housing Authority, with 60,000 tenants, notes that there have been 105 evictions since January for reasons other than nonpayment, many of those involving drugs.
* Cleveland has taken 301 residents to court and evicted 260 in the last year; 75 percent of those cases are reported to be drug related.
New York City, whose Housing Authority has 180,000 units with 600,000 tenants - as large a population as all of Boston - processed 886 evictions in 1988 and expects as many as 1,200 this year; it is estimated that 45 percent are related to a program under which Federal marshals seize an apartment after two confirmed drug buys by undercover agents.
Here in Portsmouth, which has six public housing projects with 5,500 tenants, about 100 eviction notices a month are handed out. In the largest project, the 3,000-tenant, 633-unit Ida Barbour, the residents are making a strong effort to reclaim the streets. The attorney for the Portsmouth Redevelopment and Housing Authority, Ralph W. Buxton, said that the tougher measures plus increased police presence have decreased ''open market'' drug deals and that tenants feel better.
Last fall, Portsmouth asked H.U.D. to allow it to bypass grievance proceedings, but the agency was not prepared to rule at the time. The city had attempted to evict four women who were asked to leave the Jeffrey Wilson housing community after family members or guests were arrested for interfering with a police drug operation. The women sued, and the city eventually dropped the case because of lack of evidence.
''We had to have the grievance procedure in addition to going to court,'' Mr. Buxton said of the former system. ''One was an administrative procedure, the other a judicial one.''
When a public housing eviction was sought in Portsmouth, the tenant was entitled to a hearing attended by two members of the housing authority, two people selected by the tenant and a fifth person selected by those four panel members.
''There was a lot of back and forth, back and forth,'' said Mr. Buxton. ''It took months to get organized. We were remarkably unsuccessful in obtaining evictions.'' Now, he said, ''we've eliminated months of delay.''
He estimated that about 10 percent of the monthly eviction notices are sent to residents involved in drug activity. While conceding that the numbers are not as startling as those some major cities in the country, he noted that ''all you need is one crack house and you've got a problem.''
Sandy Fulghan, manager of Ida Barbour, said: ''Most people just want a good decent place to live. There had been a hopeless attitude, that no matter what they did, nothing happened.''
Ida Barbour is sandwiched on 50 acres between the downtown business district and an interstate highway, I-264. Although it is near the city's largest employers - a shipyard, a naval hospital and a Coast Guard facility - and just across the Elizabeth River from Norfolk and its huge naval base, unemployment is high. Portsmouth's unemployment rate is 5.7 percent, higher than Virginia's 3.8 percent. Louis Ruffin, volunteer president of Ida Barbour's new tenant advisory panel, said that he is ''100 percent behind'' the new eviction procedures and that ''the people I come in contact with feel the same way.''
The panel, he said, will ''screen prospective clients before they rent'' - interviewing prospective applicants, then making a home visit. It will inquire, said Linda Powell, a management aide, about child-care arrangements, discipline and housekeeping, and ask what the potential resident feels is his or her responsibility to the community. It also will have a say on how the project is run and how money is spent and will meet with management to discuss lease terminations.
Mr. Buxton said he has had 40 cases pending since the waiver went into effect, a ''substantial number'' involving drug-related offenses. About six, he said, are being contested by Legal Aid. One may result in a jury trial, he said, adding that he is confident of being able to get evictions in most cases.
The new eviction policy has given even private landlords courage to crack down. James Epperson of Portsmouth has notified tenants in the 2,396 units apartments he owns that if they or someone in their household is arrested for a drug-related offense they will be evicted. He receives regular computer printouts from the Portsmouth police narcotics unit.
Mr. Epperson said he moved cautiously, consulting with the Commonwealth's attorney's office about the Virginia Landlord Tenant Act before instituting the rule.

GRAPHIC: photos of Ida Barbour project in Portsmouth, Va.; Ralph W. Buxton, attorney for local housing agency; James Epperson, landlord, has put tenants on notice about drug evictions (NYT/Dennis Finley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PORTSMOUTH (VA)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; EVICTIONS; DRUGS AND DRUG TRADE EVICTION (93%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); DUE PROCESS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); LAWYERS (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); LEGAL AID (76%); JURISDICTION (74%); CITIES (73%); COCAINE (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); 

PERSON: MARQUARDT, DEBORAH



76 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

Oct. 2, 1989, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: RACINE, WIS.;
From Gas Plant To Mixed Use

BYLINE: By LONG HWA-SHU

 BODY:
TWELVE acres unused since the Wisconsin Natural Gas Company stopped making gas from coal nearly 40 years ago are being reclaimed for a $75 million mixed-use project along Lake Michigan.
The development, Gaslight Pointe, is a project of Synthesis Development Corporation, whose president is James C. Mastandrea. It will include 22 two-story town houses, 104 one- to three-bedroom condominium apartments ranging in price from $100,000 to $175,000 in two three-story buildings, 100,000 square feet of retail space anchored by two restaurants and a 135-room, seven-story hotel, 125 boat slips and a 10,000-square-foot health club. 
Within three days of the start of sales early in September, five one- to three-bedroom town houses were sold for $275,000 to $400,000. Ground was broken in July and the town houses are to be ready by next spring, with the entire project complete by 1994.
Synthesis is a joint venture of Wispark Corporation, the economic development subsidiary of Wisconsin Energy Corporation, and Midwest Harbor Development Corporation, a subsidiary of Midwest Development Corporation, which was founded by Mr. Mastandrea.
The site is on a peninsula at the mouth of the Root River. It is just east of the $21.5 million Rees Point Marina in Racine harbor, whose 921 boat slips have been leased since it opened in 1987, according to Robert Gibson, executive director of Downtown Racine Corporation, a nonprofit organization that oversees downtown improvements.
Security Pacific Realty of New York was hired to develop plans for the project, said Richard A. Abdoo, president of both Wispark and Wisconsin Electric Power Company of Milwaukee. Both Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural Gas are subsidiaries of Wisconsin Energy Corporation.
According to Mr. Abdoo, Wisconsin Gas and Electric, the forerunner of Wisconsin Natural Gas, made gas from coal in the plant until 1950, when the state hooked up to a natural-gas pipeline from the Southwest. The plant was closed and dismantled. Wispark bought the property from Wisconsin Natural Gas in 1986.
As part of the downtown revitalization, the city, 60 miles north of Chicago, will spend $8.5 million on the project for seawall construction, a half-mile walkway along the river and Lake Michigan, two public viewing areas, a four-story parking ramp and road improvements, according to Thomas Wright, director of city development. It will issue tax-exempt revenue bonds to finance the spending, he said.

GRAPHIC: Rendering of hotel planned at Gaslight Pointe, Racine, Wis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WEC (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (94%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (97%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); MIDWEST USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WISCONSIN NATURAL GAS CO (94%); WISCONSIN ENERGY CORP (91%); WISCONSIN ELECTRIC POWER CO (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RACINE (WIS)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; CONDOMINIUMS MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MARINAS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); LAKES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); CITIES (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); HARBORS & PORTS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); BONDS (65%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: LONG HWA-SHU RICHARD A ABDOO (60%); 



77 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE PANEL VOTES STRICT NEW LIMITS ON CAR POLLUTION

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
A House subcommittee voted unanimously today to tighten automobile tailpipe emission controls, establishing national pollution standards as strict as California's.
The measure, approved 22 to 0, would phase in from 1994 to 1996 an emission control program modeled after the toughest in the nation. The six New England states along with New York and New Jersey agreed this summer to bring their emission laws in line with the California standards. The House move would basically extend those rules to the 41 other states.
Environmentalists hailed the action, while auto makers, expressing disappointment, said it could hurt fuel economy and increase the cost of vehicles. The Environmental Protection Agency estimated that the new standard would add $100 to the price of a new car in the first phase and $500 when the most stringent standards go into effect. The industry did not offer an estimate. 
 
A Political Milestone
The plan, a compromise between two longtime Democratic adversaries, Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and John D. Dingell of Michigan, is a political milestone in the long effort by environmentalists and others to strengthen provisions of the Clean Air Act of 1970 aimed at reducing smog.
The agreement will probably become the position adopted by the House of Representatives. The standards it embraces go beyond those proposed by President Bush in his new clean air bill but are less restrictive than emission measures specified in a bill pending in the Senate.
A White House spokesman, Stephen Hart, said the Administration thinks that its bill was more ''cost-effective'' than the subcommittee's measure but is ''glad to see the President's package is moving forward.'' The White House is not expected to seek changes in the House bill.
 
Turning Point in Relations
Members of the House Subcommittee on Health and the Environment today described the agreement as a landmark. It represents a turning point in relations between Mr. Waxman, an advocate of stronger controls to combat the smog that hangs over his hometown of Los Angeles, and Mr. Dingell, whose constituents include Detroit's auto makers.
Spokesmen for environmental groups, who were generally pleased with the vote, said Mr. Dingell accepted the compromise because he thought it was the best deal he could make for auto makers. There is considerable support among House members for tougher auto emission standards, since motor vehicles are responsible for 50 percent of the nation's smog.
 
'Momentum Was Building'
''I think Dingell could see momentum was building and discretion was the better part of valor,'' said A. Blakeman Early, a Washington representative of the Sierra Club, a national environmental group.
In a news conference after the subcommittee vote, Mr. Dingell described the auto makers' reaction as ''unenthused.''
Mr. Dingell would not directly address why he changed his position on auto emission standards. Calling the measure a ''fair compromise, honorably achieved,'' Mr. Dingell said it would be ''very hard'' on the auto industry but provide a ''stable manufacturing situation.''
Through the 1980's, Mr. Dingell has frustrated moves by Mr. Waxman, chairman of the subcommittee, to toughen the Clean Air Act, last amended in 1977. Mr. Dingell is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, where clean air legislation originates. Mr. Dingell said today's agreement probably marked the first time he has sided with Mr. Waxman on motor vehicle pollution controls.
The two men said subcommittee members had agreed to push for adoption of the auto emissions measure by the full House without amendment. Mr. Waxman said he expected a House-Senate conference committee to consider a revised Clean Air Act within the next six weeks and that Congress could accommodate the President's request for final legislation by Jan. 1.
The measure adopted today, while stronger than the White House bill, which was co-sponsored by Mr. Dingell, is weaker than the one proposed by Mr. Waxman.
Under the bill's first stage, California's auto emission control program would be phased in for new cars nationwide from 1994 to 1996. The program requires reductions in emissions of hydrocarbons, oxides of nitrogen and particulates. That timetable is about one year behind the California schedule.
The measure also requires that pollution control equipment last for 10 years or 100,000 miles, as in California. Under the Clean Air Act, that requirement is 50,000 miles.
 
Compromise on Standards
Mr. Waxman's original bill called for a second phase to cut emissions even further, beginning in the year 2000. Under the compromise, the Environmental Protection Agency must study the need for tighter standards in the years 2003 to 2006. The agency can retain existing standards or establish new ones. If it does not establish new standards or formally reaffirm existing ones, new and tighter standards go into effect.
''We're disappointed that they went as far as they did in their proposal,'' said Timothy C. MacCarthy, director of government liaison for the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association.
He said the provisions are more severe than air quality problems would dictate and that they could result in higher automobile costs, loss of fuel economy, a shortage of available models, problems with driving and more recalls. Mr. MacCarthy said the industry could not estimate how much the measures might add to the price of a vehicle.
''The House compromise on auto pollution control standards is a welcome and constructive step that will greatly improve chances of early enactment of a revitalized Clean Air Act,'' said Richard E. Ayres, chairman of the National Clean Air Coalition, an organization representing environmental and other groups.
But Mr. Ayres added that the agreement had shortcomings because the strictest standards would be delayed 13 years, and may never go into effect if the E.P.A. decides they are unnecessary. He said a program authorized by the bill to control substances like benzene and formaldehyde, which are contained in emissions but do not contribute to smog as such, could also be strengthened.
The auto industry had suffered two earlier defeats in the subcommittee, which environmentalists suggested may have led Mr. Dingell to move ahead with a compromise on tailpipe emissions.
In one, the panel voted to require tougher auto pollution standards car by car. The Administration had wanted manufacturers to meet the standards on average, which might have permitted some cars to emit more pollution than they do right now.
In a vote last week, the subcommittee moved to force auto makers to install special canisters in 1994 models to reduce emissions during refueling.
Members of the subcommittee also said today they hoped the compromise reached on auto emissions would carry over to other contentious areas the subcommittee has yet to address. These include acid rain, toxic air emissions and alternative fuels.
 
Stricter Auto Standards
 
A House subcommittee voted yesterday to apply California auto emission standards, the strictest in the country, to all 50 states.
 
What would the measure do?
 
New cars would be required to carry equipment that would sharply reduce three major pollutants: carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxide. Pollutionj control equipment would have to be built to last 100,000 miles, twice as long as it must now.
 
What would it cost?
 
The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that th emeasure would add $100 to the price of a car during the first phase, and $500 per car when the most stringent limits take effect. Automobile manufacturers say it could reduce fuel economy.
 
When would it take effect?
 
The measure would begin to take effect with 1994 models and be fully effective in 1996.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CLEAN AIR ACT

TICKER: NEG (AMEX) (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP INC (84%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; CARBON MONOXIDE AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); SMOG (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CARBON MONOXIDE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R; WAXMAN, HENRY A (REPR); DINGELL, JOHN D (REPR) JOHN DINGELL (89%); HENRY WAXMAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



78 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Texas Court Rules Rich-Poor Gap In State School Spending Is Illegal

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
The Texas Supreme Court ruled unanimously today that the state's system for financing public schools is unconstitutional because of ''glaring disparities'' between what rich and poor school districts spend on education.
The court's 9-to-0 decision found that this inequity violates a provision of the Texas Constitution requiring the State Legislature to support and maintain ''an efficient system'' for the ''general diffusion of knowledge.''
The court did not prescribe a specific remedy for the problem, but it ordered the Legislature to change the way the nation's second-largest public school system, after California, is financed. The court set a deadline of May 1. Gov. Bill Clements, who had feared that the court would mandate remedies for school financing, welcomed the ruling, saying, ''I am extremely pleased that this is back in the hands of the Legislature where it belongs.'' The Republican Governor also announced formation of a study group that will make recommendations on school financing to a special session of the State Legislature, which opens Nov. 14. 
Eventually, Texas may have to enact a state income tax, said public finance and education experts.
Texas schools receive most of their money from property taxes levied by each of the state's 1,034 independent school districts, which gives a big advantage to those school districts rich in oil reserves, commercial property or other economic resources. The state and Federal governments supplement the local funds.
 
Other States Challenged
School financing systems have been challenged in court in at least 10 other states, including New Jersey and Connecticut, on similar grounds, and some of the suits have been successful. Others are still before the courts. Connecticut's financing formula was thrown out several years ago, and a challenge to the New Jersey system is scheduled to be decided soon by the State Supreme Court.
The standard response by state governments has been to increase their contribution to local districts, with most of the new money going to the districts least able to raise tax money for education. Since the early 1970's, the average state share of the cost of education has increased to more than 50 percent from less than 40 percent.
The Texas Supreme Court opinion, written by Justice Oscar H. Mauzy. stated: ''More money allocated under the present system would reduce some of the existing disparities between districts but would at best only postpone the reform that is necessary to make the system efficient. A Band-Aid will not suffice; the system itself must be changed.''
The ruling came in a five-year-old suit brought against various state agencies by 68 school districts in property-poor areas. The state's property-rich districts can set relatively low property tax rates and finance big school budgets while districts with far fewer taxable assets must set high tax rates and can still only only try to meet minimum education requirements. In the state's 100 poorest school districts, the average spending for each student is less than $3,000 a year while in the 100 richest the average is more than $7,000.
Arguing that low taxes and good schools are important in attracting new industry or development, Justice Mauzy wrote, ''Property-poor districts are trapped in a cycle of poverty from which there is no opportunity to free themselves.''
Justice Mauzy's opinion noted that rich and poor school districts often exist side by side in the same county, but the ruling did not address allegations of racial discrimination made by some of the plaintiffs early in the case. Many of the poor school districts that brought the suit contain large concentrations of black and Hispanic students.
 
Texas Defends System
Like other lawsuits that have attacked similar school financing systems, the plaintiffs in the Texas suit had to seek relief under the state Constitution. The United States Supreme Court ruled in 1973 that equal access to education is not a fundamental right under the Constitution and that Federal courts are thus not obliged to remedy disparities in financing of school districts.
Defending the Texas system, lawyers for the state argued that a ''simple and inexpensive'' school system could satisfy Texas constitutional requirements, Justice Mauzy said. In rejecting this view, the court applied a standard of equal opportunity.
While the present system is ''limited and unbalanced,'' Justice Mauzy wrote, ''children who live in poor districts and children who live in rich districts must have substantially equal opportunity to have access to educational funds.''
''Certainly, this much is required if the state is to educate its populace efficiently and provide for a general diffusion of knowledge statewide,'' Justice Mauzy said.
The ruling concluded: ''A remedy is long overdue. The Legislature must take immediate action.''
The justices left jurisdiction of the case in the hands of the court that originally heard the suit, the State District Court in Austin. The district judge in the case, Harley Clark Jr., will determine whether the state has come up with a school financing plan to meet its responsibilities. If he finds the state's efforts inadequate, he could order remedies. The plaintiffs won in the trial court but lost on an appeal by the state, after which they took the case to the state's high court.
The issue of the taxation systems for financing public schools was not on the formal agenda of the Governors' meeting on education organized by President Bush last week. But the meeting did strongly favor local decision-making in schools.
In his decision, Justice Mauzy said that ''an efficient system will actually allow for more local control, not less.'' He said, ''It will provide property-poor districts with economic alternatives that are not now available to them.''
Last spring the State Legislature voted $450 million, primarily for the poorer school districts, to help equalize financing among the districts over the next two years. The court recognized the state's effort but demanded more drastic action for a school system that spends $12 billion annually.
The Equity Center, an association of poor Texas school districts based in Austin, has developed a plan that it says will equalize school financing at the level now spent in the most wealthy district, which it said would cost about $2 billion a year in new state money. Other proposals have suggested that about $1 billion in new spending would be required. z

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (91%); SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PROPERTY TAXES; CONSTITUTIONS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INCOME TAX (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); 

PERSON: CLEMENTS, BILL (GOV); SURO, ROBERTO



79 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2710 words

HEADLINE: The Turmoil On Madison Ave.; A special report.;
Shifts in Marketing Strategy Jolting Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By RANDALL ROTHENBERG

 BODY:
After five years of stagnation, the American advertising industry is facing a dim and uncertain future.
Madison Avenue grew and flourished by selling mass-produced goods to mass audiences through mass media. But the nation's consumer market is not what it once was, and advertising agencies are adapting only fitfully to a profound change: the splintering of the mass market into hundreds of smaller markets, and the development of new ways of communicating with them.
To tell consumers about hundreds of new brands of cereal and dozens of new toothpastes, America's largest companies are grasping for ways to communicate with people who are paying far less attention than they once did to 30-second network television commercials. Supermarket shoppers are bombarded by Muzak laced with commercials, and ads are popping up in books, high school classrooms and even in children's games. 
For consumers, the turmoil has meant constant discounting and rebates on many products.
The rules are changing ''as the cracks between the pieces of life get filled up with commercials,'' said Stuart Ewen, a professor of communications at Hunter College and the author of several books on advertising and mass culture.
As a result, the growth of mass advertising has come to a virtual halt, agency profit margins have been cut in half, and advertising agencies are going through a painful consolidation that is reaching into the deepest corners of the industry.
''We're not nailing diving boards to the windows, but things are changing and changing for the worse,'' said Martin F. Puris, the chief executive of Ammirati & Puris, whose agency advertises BMW automobiles.
''It's a crisis more than a transition,'' said Don E. Schultz, a professor of advertising at Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism. These opinions are echoed by numerous consultants and academics, as well as ad agency and corporate marketing executives, some 350 of whom are gathered in Hot Springs, Va., for the 80th annual meeting of the Association of National Advertisers.
Marketing experts cite several factors contributing to the turmoil in advertising:
* An explosion of new products has glutted supermarkets, contributed to advertising clutter and made creative advertising breakthroughs difficult to achieve.
* The mass media that once made the Jolly Green Giant a frequent household guest are giving way to a broad range of new approaches. Network television's share of the prime-time audience dropped to 67 percent last year from 92 percent a decade ago. ''The inability to efficiently reach consumers with the benefits of a new brand is tied directly to the decline of the influence of network TV,'' said Roy J. Bostock, the president of D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, the world's 11th-largest ad agency.
* Technological innovations like bar-code scanners are giving retailers increasing power to analyze customer preferences. This detailed knowledge has enabled retailers to put pressure on manufacturers to shift spending out of national advertising and into discounting, fees for retailers and other promotions.
 
Impact on the Industry
Growth Rate Slows And Staffs Are Cut
These forces have resulted in a sharp slowdown in advertising's growth rate. Although total advertising expenditures in the United States nearly tripled between 1978 and 1988, to $118.1 billion from $43.3 billion, according to McCann-Erickson Worldwide, the rate of annual growth slowed to 7.7 percent from 15.7 percent in the same period.
And the picture may actually be gloomier. After nine years of steady growth as measured against the gross national product, ad spending in the major media - newspapers, consumer magazines, outdoor advertising, radio and television - has remained at 1.5 percent of G.N.P. since 1984, according to a study by John Philip Jones, chairman of the advertising department at Syracuse University's Newhouse School of Communications. The last similar stall came between 1961 and 1966.
This stagnation has led the world's advertising giants to turn their attention overseas, where advertising has been growing at a far faster rate. In 1988, for the first time, the amount spent on advertising overseas exceeded expenditures in the United States, by about $3 billion.
Despite the slowing of domestic advertising growth, global companies have acquired American agencies in recent years in part because of their expertise in reaching specific geographic markets.
The domestic impact has been severe. In 1987, the top 16 agencies reduced their United States staffs by a total of 4.6 percent, said James Capel, a London brokerage.
The cuts are clearly not over. This summer, Lintas U.S.A., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, dismissed 5 percent of its domestic employees. And the Ogilvy Group, a unit of the WPP Group, dismissed its entire mail room staff. The move was laden with symbolism, because in agency lore the mail room is a breeding ground for the industry's leaders.
 
The Agencies' Response
Some See Gains; Others Are Glum
To be sure, ad agencies are not withering away. Numerous corporate marketing executives still rely on their agencies and say they are performing well despite the reductions and changes. ''Our communications partners have the fundamental understanding of what the need is, and they're a lot better at it now than they were last year,'' said Philip Guarascio, the head of worldwide advertising at the General Motors Corporation.
Indeed, Robert J. Coen, McCann-Erickson's highly respected director of forecasting, said the industry's condition was less a slump than a correction after years of overheated growth fueled by things like the emergence of personal computers and the airline fare wars, all of which required widespread advertising.
Yet other executives say the slowdown reflects changes in the marketplace that have rendered their agencies less able to conduct market research, keep pace with media developments and even create ads that effectively touch consumers.
''Agencies try to present themselves as part of the avant-garde, but I am convinced of the opposite - they are slow to change,'' said Clay S. Timon, the director of worldwide advertising for the Colgate-Palmolive Company.
Such sentiments have contributed to deep pessimism among some agency executives.
''Fear and loathing is the tenor of the times,'' Mr. Puris said.
 
Outside Forces
Competition Brings Flood of Goods
Agencies are being lashed by several separate but allied trends. Slow population growth has compelled companies to try to raise market share by stealing customers from their rivals, which they are doing by cutting prices and by creating products with slight differences to appeal to specific audiences. Technological development overseas has also forced American manufacturers to battle foreign competitors using price as a weapon.
But in lowering their prices and their economies of scale, American companies also began producing more goods, flooding the market with wares, many of them barely distinguishable.
The number of cereal brands that sell at least $1 million annually at retail has grown to 150 today from 84 in 1979, said SAMI, a market research firm. Food stores now sell 31 million-dollar brands of toothpaste, up from 10 a decade ago.
''As brands proliferate, they become more alike,'' said William M. Weilbacher, a consultant who helps companies find agencies. ''Advertising cannot serve to differentiate those brands.''
 
Creativity Seen Affected
One result Mr. Weilbacher says he has seen in the dozens of agency presentations in which he participates each year is ''a long-term downtrend in creativity.'' He said the industry was not spawning the creative giants it once did, people like Leo Burnett, William Bernbach and David Ogilvy, whose names became household words.
Marketers have responded recently by curtailing product introductions. Gorman's New Product News, a newsletter, says that product introductions grew by 3.7 percent in 1988 from the year before; in 1987, new products jumped 26 percent.
The slump in new-product activity ''affects agencies dramatically,'' said Mr. Bostock, the president of D.M.B.&B., whose clients include consumer-products giants like Procter & Gamble and Kraft General Foods. ''Our growth in the 1960's and 1970's was fueled by new products.''
Average agency profit margins are now 10 percent, down from 20 percent in the 1970's. Agency executives and consultants say the pressure on profits has resulted in the gutting of some agency functions, notably market research.
According to the American Association of Advertising Agencies, research as a percentage of total agency payroll expenditures dropped by 2 percent between 1968 and 1988, the largest area of decline. Mr. Weilbacher, the consultant, said the research cutbacks had impinged on the ability of agencies to help their clients.
The association says the payroll in other areas has increased, notably for creative personnel, but it would not provide figures.
Agencies have also been hurt by the marked shift in marketing budgets away from advertising and toward promotions intended to induce retailers to stock a product and customers to purchase it. Advertising traditionally accounted for two-thirds of a company's marketing expenditures, with promotions making up the rest. Several studies now indicate that ratio has been reversed.
 
'Quantifiable Hits'
''Advertising is a slow build,'' said Paul N. Mulcahy, the vice president of advertising for the Campbell Soup Company. Promotions, he said, particularly trade promotions, ''represent quick and quantifiable hits, so we've taken the money and moved it.''
On the surface, this movement does not appear to have harmed all conventional mass media. The three major television networks, for example, sold more than $4 billion worth of advertising time for their current season in their pre-season sales period this summer, a record.
But the broader view is darker for the major media. Between 1978 and 1988, the shares of domestic advertising expenditures going to newspapers, magazines, network television and radio declined, according to the Newspaper Advertising Bureau. Direct mail, whose effects can be easily measured, grew substantially.
 
New Gimmicks
A Board Game Sells Advertising
Disenchantment with traditional advertising has led some companies to take unusual steps to reach consumers. Continental Airlines, Courvoisier cognac and 23 other companies each paid $30,000 to buy sponsored spaces on a new board game, ''It's Only Money,'' aimed at parents and children.
Marketers and the media are also increasingly blurring the line between advertising and television programming or magazine articles.
In an intricate arrangement, Family Circle magazine, a publication of The New York Times Company, ran several articles this year about the renovation of a house by Martha Stewart, the home-entertainment writer. K Mart, the nation's second-largest retailer, purchased all the advertising space around the stories. Ms. Stewart, a paid consultant to K Mart, used its products in the renovation and appeared in television ads for the company showing her at work and endorsing specific products available to K Mart shoppers.
There is concern among marketers that these new tactics will merely increase advertising clutter, alienating consumers.
''People need to care about that because the things that motivate the market are economic and profit-oriented, and not always in the best interests of society,'' said Professor Ewen of Hunter.
The largest advertising companies in the United States and abroad have reacted to the slowdown in main media advertising by building their capabilities in sales promotion, direct marketing, package design and other disciplines.
 
Agencies of the Future
Advertising May Be Secondary
As they are shaping up, tomorrow's agencies will have a far different look, with advertising itself actually taking a back seat.
At D.M.B.&B. and Young & Rubicam, for example, ancillary services now account for 30 percent of total corporate revenues, executives say.
''It is possible - and this is heresy - that in the late 1990's one of the big advertising groups will have more revenues from non-advertising services than advertising services,'' said Mr. Bostock of D.M.B.& B. Still, even the largest agencies are not recapturing all the advertising revenues they are losing. Many of the alternative selling methods do not return to agencies the traditional 15 percent commission on media billings.
Last year, for example, Campbell Soup put 80 percent of the marketing budget for its dry-soup division into advertising inside stores. To give its agencies an incentive to use alternative media in their marketing plans, Campbell decided in August to pay them a commission for in-store ads. But the commission is less than 15 percent because Campbell is doing its own research and ad placement -work ad agencies used to do routinely.
''I remember a time when agencies would be battling each other to be the first in to brief you on a new media development the week after it was announced,'' said Mr. Mulcahy of Campbell. ''That doesn't happen any more.''
 
Retailers' New Power
Scanners Giving Stores Advantage
The crucial battleground these days is inside the stores.
Bar-code scanners are now used in half the supermarkets in America, upsetting a balance of power in marketing. Where manufacturers once had the most knowledge about where and why their products sold, today retailers know exactly which products are moving, and at what prices.
Many retailers now use a computerized system to determine the value of shelf space by the cubic inch. To increase that value, store owners are increasingly asking manufacturers for fees to stock a product, called ''slotting allowances,'' which generally cost $4,000 a product for each store, said Group EFO Ltd., a product-development consultant in Norwalk, Conn.
Slotting allowances, which typically come out of ad budgets, now take 44 percent of all marketing budgets, up from 34 percent in 1980, according to Donnelley Marketing.
Scanner technology also allows retailers to compile detailed records of their customers.
 
Studying the Shopper
A Citicorp subsidiary, for example, is testing a frequent-shopper program in the Ukrop's Super Markets chain in Richmond. In return for discounts and other incentives, shoppers who enroll - 180,000 have so far -use magnetically coded cards at the checkout counters, enabling the chain to learn who is buying what, and to target appeals accordingly.
Professor Schultz of Northwestern, who has studied the impact of scanners, said this bodes ill for national advertising.
''Once they start to build customer data bases, then retailers can start talking directly to those people, through direct mail or other means, and they can motivate those customers to change their shopping habits,'' he said.
In Canada and Britain, several grocery chains are experimenting with creating their own high-priced private-label brands, which are more profitable to them than national brands. In turn, the chains are deeply discounting the national brands to lure customers.
''That's potentially disastrous to national advertisers and their agencies,'' Professor Schultz said.
 
Some Optimism
While the transformation of consumer markets has forced gloom on the advertising business, a salesman's optimism still occasionally peeks through.
Professor Jones of Syracuse believes the stagnation in ad expenditures might lead to a flowering of creativity in the industry, especially among newer, smaller agencies.
The last time advertising spending stalled, he points out, the industry's ''creative revolution'' followed - the period in the late 1960's and early 70's when Doyle Dane Bernbach regaled the nation with an ad for Volkswagen cars headlined ''Think Small.''
Mr. Timon of Colgate expressed the ad world's new sentiment. ''I do not think ad agencies as we know them will disappear.'' he said, ''But they will go through many hiccups and ups and downs. And this will be a constant transition instead of a change to a new status quo.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs of the percent change from previous year in total expenditures for advertising the the U.S. (source: McCann-Erickson Worldwide) (NYT); percentage of all advertising spending going to each medium (source: Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Inc.) (NYT) (pg. D23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; INDUSTRY PROFILES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (96%); MARKETING STRATEGY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); EXECUTIVES (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); CHILDREN (76%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (70%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); BARCODE EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHENBERG, RANDALL



80 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
More East Germans sought refuge in Bonn's embassy in Prague. East Berlin demanded that Bonn not allow the more than 2,500 refugees to remain in the embassy. Page A1
 
Moscow called for a ban on strikes for 15 months and proposed other powers to halt disruptions in industry and transport, which officials said has put the economy near collapse. A1
 
Soviet envoy tells U.S. of mental hospital reform A10
 
Uncertainty is tormenting Lebanon. Thousands of families who returned to their homes in Beirut after a cease-fire was arranged last month are still living out of suitcases. A1 
 
Mubarak sees Bush and warns Israel against rejecting plan A6
 
U.S. cool to West Bank housing A11
 
Britain's Labor Party ended support for unilateral nuclear disarmament, which the party's leader, Neil Kinnock, has blamed for hurting the party for the last 10 years. A3
 
Pope and Anglican chief see limits to unity A3
 
El Salvador's leader backed talks with rebel forces arranged in Mexico last month. He did so in an address to the U.N. General Assembly. A12
 
News analysis: Offstage progress on third world debt D1
 
Japan must lower domestic prices, halt a growing disparity between rich and poor, and stop ''concentrating single-mindedly on economic efficiency,'' the Prime Minister said. A8
 
Chinese official warns U.S. against meddling A13
 
Sana journal: Wealth fuels Yemen's desire for daggers A4
 
National A14-20
 
A move to tighten emission controls on automobiles was unanimously backed by a House panel. The pact may end a 12-year stalemate over strengthening the Clean Air Act. A1
 
Texas's finance system for schools violates the state constitution with ''glaring disparities'' in money available for rich and poor districts, the Texas Supreme Court ruled. A1
 
An employer may bar fertile women from jobs that could harm a fetus, even if the women are not pregnant or say they have no intention of getting pregnant, a court ruled. A16
 
Court refuses to hear appeal on occupational safety A17
 
Is political patronage constitutional? The Supreme Court agreed to rule whether the rights of three Illinois residents were violated by political tests for hiring and promotion. A19
 
Turmoil in the advertising industry has developed as it struggles through its worst slump in years and tries to adapt to a profound change: the splintering of mass markets. A1
 
Manufacturing slowdown continued in September, report says D1
 
USX plans to sell oil and gas reserves of its Texas Oil and Gas Corporation unit, it said. D1
 
Zenith will sell its computer business to Groupe Bull, France's largest computer manufacturer, for about $635 milllion, the company said. D1
 
High-definition TV attracts a big gamble from Zenith D7
 
Auto insurers cannot raise rates in California for six months, an official ruled. The state is using the time to decide how to follow a rate-cutting measure approved by voters. D3
 
Oakland journal: Subway series A14
 
Jim Bakker blamed Jerry Falwell for the PTL ministry's collapse as he testified at his trial on fraud and conspiracy charges. Mr. Falwell took over PTL after Mr. Bakker left. A15
 
A proposed development in Idaho has met opposition in the Teton Valley, where some people fear that gentrification means costly housing. A14
 
At the House's hearings on H.U.D., a former Reagan aide, Richard Davis, said he had never told the housing department to provide assistance to politically desirable projects. A14
 
Washington at Work: Sig Rogich, the wealthy Las Vegas advertising and public relations executive, begins working tomorrow as President Bush's new image-maker. A18
 
Market place: Prime-plus funds D1
 
Regional B1-6
 
The dream of advancement is dying for many working-class families burdened by high housing costs. For New York City's families in particular, life feels harder than it used to be. B1
 
Italian-Americans voting for mayor of New York City are expected to back Rudolph Giuliani strongly. Many Democrats, torn between loyalties, appear ready to defect. B1
 
Campaign trail: Cardinal disapproves of 'evasion' B3
 
William Grinker said he will resign from the New York City Human Resources Administration after three tumultuous years at the head of the agency serving the city's most troubled and vulnerable citizens. B1
 
A top witness against Robert Garcia was contradicted by the Governor of Puerto Rico, who said he had ''absolutely not'' promised a contract to Wedtech official in 1985. B3
 
Mother of drug figure pleads guilty B6
 
Fines for Yonkers councilmen imposed by a Federal judge last year should be upheld, the Bush Administration told the Supreme Court. The case may decide Federal court power in desegregation orders. B4
 
Parents refused to complain in sex-assault case, officials say B4
 
Presbyterian Hospital reaches a tentative pact with workers B3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BULL (PAR) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); YEMEN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: BULL SAS (80%); TEXAS OIL & GAS CORP (60%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (88%); SUPREME COURTS (85%); APPEALS (85%); LITIGATION (85%); REFUGEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); RELIGION (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT (66%); COMPUTER MAKERS (65%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); HOSPITALS (56%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (56%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (51%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (56%); 



81 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Chief Asks a Reappraisal

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 2

 BODY:
In his first major policy speech as Prime Minister, Toshiki Kaifu sounded today much like Japan's critics, declaring that the time had come to lower domestic prices, halt a growing disparity between rich and poor, and stop ''concentrating single-mindedly on economic efficiency.''
Mr. Kaifu's speech came at the opening of debate in what is likely to be Japan's most contentious parliamentary session in decades, and the first in 35 years in which his governing Liberal Democratic Party does not hold the majority in Japan's upper house.
The shift in the balance of power was obvious, as Mr. Kaifu reached out to groups of people who until recently have been considered peripheral to Japan's political process - most notably consumers, the elderly and women. 
Mr. Kaifu announced no major changes of foreign policy, saying he would work to strengthen Japan's alliance with the United States but would ''speak out frankly'' in trade negotiations in which both nations have sharply criticized the structure of the other's economy.
The unusual element in the speech today was that Mr. Kaifu's repeated suggestion that, in its enthusiasm to create an economic powerhouse, the country had lost sight of ''the goal of creating a fair and spiritually rich society.''
''Japan has come to be regarded as one of the wealthiest of nations,'' he said. ''Yet do we Japanese have an inner sense of fulfillment, and can we bequeath today's Japan to future generations with confidence?''
In several recent polls, Mr. Kaifu's popularity appears to be restoring public confidence in the Liberal Democrats, who in July were handed their first major defeat in more than three decades. On Sunday, the party also won a by-election for an upper house seat that was vacant because of the death of a Liberal Democratic member.
On the key issues of dispute in Japanese domestic politics, Mr. Kaifu refused to budge today. He offered a spirited defense of Japan's new 3 percent sales tax on virtually all goods, a tax that has angered many consumers.
The upper house, now controlled by opposition parties, is expected to pass a bill revoking the tax, setting up a confrontation with the lower house, controlled by the Liberal Democrats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: UPPER ROOM (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BYELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TRENDS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); SALES TAX (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN); SANGER, DAVID E KAIFU TOSHIKI (74%); 



82 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cool to Housing Soviet Emigres in West Bank

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
The Bush Administration said today that while it wanted to help Israel with the cost of resettling Soviet Jewish emigres, it did not want to do anything to encourage or subsidize the construction of housing in the West Bank.
Marlin Fitzwater, the White House press secretary, said President Bush discussed Israel's request for $400 million in housing loan guarantees last week with Finance Minister Shimon Peres in New York.
Israel estimates that 100,000 Soviet Jews will arrive in the next three years, in part because the United States has adopted new procedures restricting their admission to this country. Israel says housing, jobs, education and other services for the Soviet emigres will cost $3 billion, and officials have said some housing would probably be built in the West Bank. 
''We want to be helpful in any way we can,'' Mr. Fitzwater said. But, he added, ''We remain opposed to settlements in the West Bank, and also opposed to the use of U.S. aid for that purpose.'' Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said that, although the Administration opposed additional Israeli settlements in the West Bank, ''we are very sympathetic'' to Israel's desire to accept Soviet Jewish emigres and to provide adequate housing for them.
Federal loan guarantees, under a program to finance housing projects in developing countries, would enable Israel to borrow money from commercial banks at low interest rates.
 
Separate Accounts
Israel is apparently willing to accept an arrangement under which housing built with loans guaranteed by the United States Government would be subject to American approval, so that none of those specific projects would be in the West Bank. But Israel reserves the right to use money from other sources, not guaranteed by the United States Government, to build housing for Soviet Jews in the West Bank.
American and Israeli officials said Israel received housing loan guarantees from the United States in the 1970's. The Agency for International Development stipulated then that no guaranteed loans could be used to build housing in the occupied West Bank.
Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, a Democrat who is chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee responsible for foreign aid, said today that ''Israel has a legitimate concern on housing for immigrants'' from the Soviet Union. But, he added: ''We will not use American foreign aid for settlements in the West Bank.''
Supporters of Israeli settlements in the West Bank say they enhance Israel's security, a contention disputed by critics of such settlements.
Under current law, no country can receive Federal guarantees for housing loans of more than $25 million a year. Until recently, the Agency for International Development separately reviewed and approved each project built with Federal loan guarantees. By insisting on such reviews, the United States could make sure Israel did not use Federal loan guarantees to build projects in the West Bank.
But an American aid official said that if Israel used American loan guarantees to finance construction within Israel's pre-1967 borders, it could free other funds to build housing in the West Bank. The official said that such an analysis applied to much of the United States' economic aid to Israel, not just the housing guarantees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); JORDAN RIVER (WEST BANK)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HOUSING; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES); JEWS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); IMMIGRATION (85%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SHIMON PERES (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 



83 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: New Fight in Old West: Farmers vs. Condo City

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DRIGGS, Idaho

 BODY:
The gentrification of the American West, promoted by some people as the best economic hope for the future of many communities that have fallen on hard times, is meeting stiff resistance in this alpine valley on the western side of the Teton Range.
Several hundred potato farmers, ranchers and conservationists are fighting a Forest Service proposal to allow construction of an Italian-style community of 880 condominiums at a ski resort bordering Grand Teton National Park.
The farmers say the proposed condo city would more than double the population of Teton Valley and bring heavy traffic, real estate speculation, pollution and housing clutter to this area in eastern Idaho near the Wyoming border.
They also worry that their children and those who work in the valley but do not now own property will not be able to afford land here if real estate prices soar after the development is approved and the condominiums are built. 
 
Tourism Seen as the Answer
The private developer and the Forest Service, which owns the land on which the condominiums would be built, say such change is inevitable. They contend that given the speculative pressure on fast-growing Jackson Hole, Wyo., just over the Teton Range from here, the valley should seek a more prosperous future through tourism instead of trying to preserve a fading past.
But the issue now dividing Teton Valley and other rural areas of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Washington and Oregon is more than economic; it goes to the very character of the West as the last decade of the 2Oth century approaches.
With resource industries like mining, logging and oil in decline, some residents of small towns in the West have mixed feelings about a future based on selling the spectacular scenery.
''The folks who live in the valley now don't live here for money,'' said Boyd Bowles, an alfalfa farmer who leads a citizens' group fighting the development. ''We live here because we like it the way it is. Letting all those condos go up is going to change everything in this valley.''
 
Preservation by Diversification
Officials of the Forest Service, a Department of Agriculture agency that is the biggest landowner in this area, say the best way to preserve some of the historic character of the Rocky Mountian West while adding new jobs is to diversify the economy. And a major ski resort that includes a condominium city is less harmful to the environment, they say, than logging or mining.
''You can't stop the march of progress in the Teton Valley,'' said James Caswell, supervisor of the 1.8 million-acre Targhee National Forest, which forms the western border of Yellowstone and Grand Teton national parks. ''It's just going to happen, no matter what we do. So let's take the opportunity to plan accordingly.''
The plan proposed for the Grand Targhee Resort, a ski resort that has been in operation for 20 years and is about an hour's drive from the more popular Jackson Hole area, calls for building the condominiums on a mountain ridge in the western shadow of the three biggest peaks in Grand Teton National Park. The new community would overlook the sparsely populated Teton Valley and its small family farms and ranches.
The developer, Mory Bergmeyer, who owns Grand Targhee with his wife, Carol, says he wants to build a residential community modeled after Alpine villages in northern Italy. Mr. Bergmeyer, an architect who moved to the Grand Teton area two years ago from Boston, says his design will blend with the scenery.
 
A Two-Tier Class System
Opposition to the development is centered here in Driggs, a weather-beaten Western-style town of 890 people who live in one-story stone and frame houses. Mr. Bergmeyer says that the valley around the town ''looks like Dogpatch,'' and that his critics therefore have no right to accuse him of trying to block their view of the Tetons with an eyesore.
Some of those who live here say they oppose the development not just because it would change the look and character of the valley, but also because it would create a two-tier class system: rich people in the condominiums on the ridge and struggling farmers and ranchers in the valley.
''We've been told that we're no good at farming and what we should do is get a job making beds for Mory Bergmeyer,'' said Jake Kittle, who lives in the nearby town of Wilson, Wyo.
Mr. Bergmeyer said that when he and his wife bought the resort two years ago they were considered saviors of the valley. ''Now I'm labeled as the bad developer,'' he said.
 
Court Delays Land Swap
Because the ski resort, one of three in the Jackson Hole area, is on Forest Service land and straddles two states, the condo community could be built only with the approval of Congress, which gave it last year on the provision that the Government be given some undeveloped land in return.
The Forest Service proposed a swap of 270 acres of Government land at the base of the Grand Targhee Resort in exchange for 700 acres of private land on the Snake River that the developer was going to buy.
But Federal District Judge Alan B. Johnson, in Cheyenne, Wyo., temporarily stopped the exchange with a court injunction two months ago, saying the Forest Service needed to study the environmental effects of the proposed development before the swap could proceed.
Since then the land on the Snake River in Idaho, an important wildlife area that the Forest Service wants to protect, was sold to another buyer. But Mr. Caswell, the Forest Service supervisor, said a swap could still be made if the Grand Targhee Resort came up with new land of equal ecological value.
 
Conservationists Skeptical
Conservationists, led by the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, a Montana-based group promoting preservation of the area around Yellowstone and Grand Teton national parks, were initially in favor of the land swap. But they have since become skeptical, expressing concern about what the development might do to water quality and wildife.
''What we and others did not know until recently was how extensive and visible the ski area expansion developments actually would be,'' members of the group wrote in a recent newsletter.
But Forest Service officials and Mr. Bergmeyer say the project would have a mimimal impact on the land around Yellowstone and Grand Teton.
''When people go around saying the Yellowstone ecosystem is going down the tubes I have a tough time believing it,'' Mr. Caswell said. Even though there are developments on Yellowstone's northern side and timber and mining operations near other parts of the parks, he said, nearly 75 percent of the 11 million acres of the Yellowstone ecosystem is still in a wild state.

GRAPHIC: Farmers, ranchers and conservationists are fighting a Forest Service proposal to allow construction of a town of 880 condominiums near Driggs, Idaho, at a ski resort bordering Grand Teton National Park. (NYT/Randy Hayes); map of Idaho showing location of Grand Teton National Park (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (79%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (95%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (93%); WYOMING, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE, US

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IDAHO; TARLAC PROVINCE (PHILIPPINES); GRAND TETON NATIONAL PARK (WYO); TEANECK (NJ)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS NATIONAL PARKS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); POTATO FARMING (77%); SKIING (77%); RESORTS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); HAY FARMING (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (70%); PRICE INCREASES (53%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY



84 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Blaming Others for Collapse of PTL, Bakker Completes Testimony

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Oct. 2

 BODY:
Jim Bakker finished a day and a half of testimony at his fraud and conspiracy trial today by blaming his fellow evangelist Jerry Falwell, who took over the Bakker ministry, for its collapse.
Much of Mr. Bakker's time on the witness stand in Federal District Court here was spent responding to withering questioning from a prosecutor about lavish bonuses he received as his ministry lurched toward financial ruin.
After he finished, the bankruptcy trustee for the ministry depicted it as hopelessly in debt when Mr. Bakker left it in May 1987.
Gone for the most part today was the composed, confident Mr. Bakker who began his testimony on Friday by telling jurors how visions from God had helped him build one of the most successful television ministries in history. 
 
Halting, Nearly Inaudible
Instead, Mr. Bakker spoke haltingly, at times almost inaudibly, as the prosecutor, Deborah Smith, outlined how he continued to receive millions of dollars in bonuses from the falterting PTL.
Mr. Bakker is charged with 24 counts of fraud and conspiracy in connection with the sale of vacation lodgings at his Heritage USA resort and theme park. The prosecution says that he solicited donations by offering vacations he often could not provide and that at least $3.7 million of the money was used to pay for his lavish life style.
The 49-year-old Mr. Bakker, whose ministry collapsed in 1987 after sexual and financial scandals, ended his testimony on a central theme of his defense: ''The real conspiracy to defraud came from the group of people who took over the ministry for their own gain.''
 
Depiction by Bankruptcy Trustee
He says that, had he been able to continue raising money, he would have met all the financial needs. But M. C. Benton, the bankruptcy trustee for the ministry, painted a bleak picture at the time Mr. Bakker resigned.
Mr. Benton said the ministry had $50 million in secured and unsecured debt and faced claims of $160 million by PTL investors, or ''partners,'' who bought the vacation agreements, $15.5 million in claims from contractors and tax bills of $59 million to $79 million to the Internal Revenue Service and $12 million to South Carolina. He put the value of tangible assets at $140 million.
Out of the presence of the jury, Mr. Benton said Mr. Bakker simply did not have the resources to deliver the vacation ''partnerships'' at Heritage USA that he offered donors who contributed $1,000 to the ministry. The partnerships were supposed to provide members with four-day annual vacations for the rest of their lives.
 
'A House of Cards'
Christine Howe, a former PTL reservation supervisor, said that every month in Mr. Bakker's last year at PTL, 1,300 to 3,700 lifetime partners were denied lodging they had requested.
Mr. Bakker repeatedly contradicted earlier witnesses, like six PTL board members who said they had never been told of the depth of the financial crisis. He said he got less than 1 percent of the money he raised as salary and in bonuses and the board was kept aware of the ministry's finances.
''I said to them not to give me the bonuses many, many times,'' Mr. Bakker testified. Ms. Smith said, ''And then you cashed the checks and used them to buy houses many, many times.''
Starting with the early 1980's, Ms. Smith outlined a worsening financial picture at PTL. She cited an accountant's report that questioned whether the ministry could survive, and its need for layoffs and hiring freezes.
 
But Bonuses Kept Rolling In
At the same time, Mr. Bakker and his wife, Tammy Faye, were receiving bonuses, including $600,000 in a six-week period late in 1986. Mr. Bakker said the board understood that faith in God would provide for the economic needs.
''We say that by faith, God will supply the need,'' he testified.
''How about truth?'' Ms. Smith shot back. ''Did you ever tell them the truth of what the financial situation was?''
Still, after the early uproar of the trial, Mr. Bakker's final testimony was rather tame. There was no mention of the sex scandal and hush money payment to Jessica Hahn that began his downfall. Both sides later rested. Closing arguments are scheduled for Tuesday and the case may go to the jury Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: PTL (TELEVISION MINISTRY)

SUBJECT: TRIALS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); WITNESSES (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); RELIGION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); SCANDALS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: BAKKER, JIM; FALWELL, JERRY (REV); APPLEBOME, PETER JERRY L FALWELL (74%); 



85 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
An Image Polisher Leaves Nevada Neon to Sharpen a 'Beige' White House

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
He is a friend of Wayne Newton. His clients have included Frank Sinatra and Donald Trump. He wears well-cut Italian suits, Hermes ties, Bally loafers and a $3,000 Bertolucci watch. He drives a Mercedes sedan with a cellular phone.
Just when you thought the Bush White House was hopelessly beige and bland, a spritz of glitz has been added. Meet Sig Rogich, the wealthy Las Vegas advertising and public relations executive who is the President's new image-maker.
''I'm friends with Wayne Newton,'' the soft-spoken Mr. Rogich (pronounced ROGUE-ish) conceded, when asked about his acquaintances from the Las Vegas casino world. ''Even though I don't happen to like his song 'Danke Schon.' '' 
Mr. Rogich, who helped produce the Bush campaign's controversial commercials battering Gov. Michael S. Dukakis on prison furloughs and Boston Harbor, starts Wednesday as the new special assistant to the President for activities and initiatives. The job, raised to a cynical art form in the Reagan years by Michael K. Deaver, entails shaping the President's message and themes, planning his travel schedule and crafting the way his events should look for television.
 
Perspective of History
''I look at everything from an historical point of view because I think that gives greater impact to the message,'' said Mr. Rogich, who collects first-edition books, papers and photographs involving his two heroes, Winston Churchill and Theodore Roosevelt. ''It's important to look for the unusual setting that will be memorable. The Camp David accords wouldn't have been the same if they were the Washington accords.''
His predecessor, Stephen Studdert is returning to his home state of Utah, where he may run for office. In the official version, Mr. Studdert, who was accused inside the White House of being a self-promoter and outside the White House of arranging scattershot trips that garnered little national press coverage, was not asked to leave. But there was a feeling in the inner circle that it might be best if he headed West a little early.
In the beginning, Mr. Bush and his advisers tried so hard to shed the image of a stage-managed President that they ignored criticism that Mr. Bush was dissolving in a fuzzy video collage of puppies and horseshoes. Knowing that President Bush was not as telegenic as his predecessor, his advisers wanted to downgrade the importance of television and national news coverage.
But now officials concede that the big picture is blurry. They say they want to fix the problem while the President's popularity is high, before he runs into a crisis.
''This was one area where folks had suggested we needed a little bit of an extra dimension,'' said John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff. ''We needed a pro who understands how to emphasize what the President wants to convey without doing things that would make the President uncomfortable. We don't want anything ostentatious or over-orchestrated.''
 
A Formidable Footnote
In other words, while Mr. Bush still cringes at the term ''handler,'' he is willing to sit still for a glossier approach to showcasing his Presidency.
Enter Mr. Rogich, a man who has been so self-effacing in the last two Republican Presidential campaigns that he is missing from most Washington Rolodexes and mentioned only as a footnote in most campaign books. Like Mr. Bush, Mr. Rogich does not like turf battles or fighting for credit.
But insiders value him highly. In 1984, he was one of three directors of the ''Tuesday Team'' that orchestrated the slick $20 million advertising campaign for Ronald Reagan's landslide, and in 1988 he worked on Mr. Bush's team as the quiet partner of the garrulous Roger Ailes.
 
'A Special Relationship'
Since Mr. Ailes likes to take credit for clever work, and Mr. Rogich likes to give it, the two got along famously. ''We had a special relationship,'' Mr. Rogich recalled. ''I liked the way Roger allowed me to be creative, and he liked the way I did his shirts.''
Although he supervised the making of some of Mr. Bush's negative commercials, Mr. Rogich insists he preferred the softer advertisements, like the one of Mr. Bush's granddaughter running into his arms. He wrote one Republican Party spot that harkened back to tough economic times in the late 1970's under Jimmy Carter as the song ''I Remember You'' played.
Mr. Rogich is touchy about the aura that automatically clings to someone who has become one of the most powerful people in Nevada. He plans to sell his Mercedes and get a more modest four-wheel drive vehicle, and he is putting his advertising firm, which he has built into the largest in Nevada, in a blind trust.
Mr. Rogich, who once served as a boxing commissioner of Nevada and once owned a slot machine company, resigned from the board of Bally's casino in Las Vegas and sold his partnership in two small casinos in Fallon, Nev.
 
A Call From the Car
''Please don't portray me as some flashy Vegas gambler who's plopping into the White House in Italian suits and expensive watches,'' Mr. Rogich pleaded, calling a reporter from his car phone.
Indeed, while Mr. Rogich disdains the Brooks Brothers uniform favored by most White House officials, he does not gamble. ''I keep thinking I should be able to play baccarat because James Bond did,'' he said. ''I've always wanted to walk through a casino one day and say 'Banco!' just to be cool.''
In 1984, The Wall Street Journal wrote a story raising eyebrows over the presence of a Las Vegas public relations and advertising man as a Reagan campaign official. Hadn't Mr. Rogich helped Frank Sinatra get a gambling license? Hadn't he done public relations work for the casino operator Allan Sachs when Mr. Sachs wanted to improve the image of the Stardust Hotel after it had been linked to organized crime?
Mr. Rogich's wide circle of loyal friends in high places say that any criticism was merely a matter of prejudice against the image of Las Vegas as a neon Sodom and Gomorrah.
 
Angered Liberals on Campus
''There's an anti-Las Vegas bias in this town,'' said Paul Laxalt, the former Nevada Senator who filed and then later dropped a $250 million libel suit against the McClatchey papers over an article alleging skimming at a casino that his family once owned, ''and that attitude has a healthy dose of hypocrisy in it.''
Mr. Rogich got his start in politics as a Laxalt volunteer.
''He may have come from Las Vegas, but Sig is more rugged Western than glitzy Western,'' Mr. Sununu said, putting a positive spin on Mr. Rogich's roots.
The White House officials who have been getting to know Mr. Rogich are still getting used to his manner, which everyone concedes is ''different'' from conventional Washington fare.
Mr. Rogich has told people here that he is looking forward to working with the Cabinet because they are such ''beautiful people.''
Mr. Rogich may have helped produce some of the most notorious ads even in a Presidential campaign, but he has the soft, considerate, intensely sincere manner of the lead in a Frank Capra movie. He would rather talk about the plight of the Indians than the capital gains tax cut bill, and he would rather talk about helping the environment than about Wayne Newton.
 
A Wide-Ranging Mind
Indeed, unlike that of most Washington political types, Mr. Rogich's conversation jumps like a Renaissance grasshopper, from Basque restaurants to Puccini operas to vampire novels to Jackie Robinson and the old Brooklyn Dodgers.
Those who have worked with him in campaigns say he has an idealistic side uncommon either in a hard-bitten town like Las Vegas or a cynical business like political advertising. ''He really believes all that stuff,'' said Tom Messner, a Madison Avenue advertising executive who worked on the Reagan Tuesday Team.
Just as President Bush can get choked up when he stands on the Truman Balcony and talks about how special the White House is, Mr. Rogich can get overwhelmed when he sees the President in a historically steeped setting such as Monticello.
''It was awesome,'' he said quietly, after watching the President at Thomas Jefferson's home last week during the education summit.
 
A Dream as Real Life
The 45-year-old Mr. Rogich, a divorced father of two daughters whose hobbies include camping, collecting duck stamps, playing the guitar and reading about Indians, concedes he can sound hokey. ''I know it sounds corny for someone to tell you that they're patriotic and that they feel honored to do something like this,'' he said, ''but I believe deeply in this President because he's a good guy.''
His friends suggest that his idealism may stem from the fact that Mr. Rogich has lived the American dream. Born in Iceland, he started ''dirt poor,'' as his mother, Ranny, puts it, when the family lived in public housing and his father worked in a metals factory outside Las Vegas. His father went on to be a foreman at a company that made neon casino signs, and his sister was a dancer in a review that toured with Sammy Davis Jr. Sig Rogich worked odd jobs from the time he was small, and as he got older toiled as a busboy at casinos in Las Vegas, a bellboy in Lake Tahoe hotels and a folk singer in San Francisco bistros. He changed his name in college, from Sigfus to the less exotic Sigmund, although everyone calls him ''Sig'' anyway. By the time he turned 40, he was a multimillionaire, and one who quietly sends money to children in need of operations when he reads about them in newspapers.
His friends also say that he is more ''touchy-feely'' than most politicos and sometimes offers a hug in expressing emotion. As one Bush official explains, ''He's just very West Coast.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Sig Rogich, who is to take over as President Bush's new image maker. (AP for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) US PRESIDENTS (77%); SEDANS (77%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); POLITICS (71%); DOGS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROGICH, SIG; DOWD, MAUREEN; ROGICH, SIG (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DONALD TRUMP (73%); 



86 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: The Editorial Notebook; Don't Fiddle With the Fed;
It's the Politicians Who Need Discipline

BYLINE: By RICHARD E. MOONEY

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve System's independence constantly frustrates idealistic populists, economic monetarists and Presidents uncomfortable with the ambiguity of its powers.
Populists rail at its authority over interest rates and the secrecy of its deliberations. Monetarists want unswerving adherence to their money management doctrine. And Presidents get edgy when high interest rates threaten the prosperity that keeps them in office. At one time or another, all want more control over Fed policy. The current vehicle for their frustration is an ill-conceived bill by Representatives Byron Dorgan of North Dakota and Lee Hamilton of Indiana. This page has given the bill qualified support, but there's more to be said. 
In the name of democratizing Fed operations, the Dorgan-Hamilton proposal would politicize them. Making the Secretary of the Treasury a member of the Fed's board of governors would position the Administration to manipulate policy making. The Reagan Administration's eight years of fiscal irresponsibility should be evidence enough of the value of an independent central bank.
Another restrictive provision in the Dorgan-Hamilton bill would make the Fed disclose policy decisions immediately, instead of after six weeks. That would deny the Fed essential flexibility. The bill would also authorize policy audits by the General Accounting Office, creating another layer of kibitzing by Congress, which controls the G.A.O.
Congress created the Fed in 1913 intending that it operate independently, meaning outside politics. The Treasury had a seat on the board until 1935, when it was eliminated by law. The law's sponsor was Senator Carter Glass, a former Treasury Secretary, who said at the time: ''He [the secretary] is the dominant figure . . . and the system has been made a doormat of the U.S. Treasury.'' Representative Stephen Neal of North Carolina now offers a counterproposal to the Dorgan-Hamilton bill, with the same basic flaw - inflexibility. The Neal bill calls for eliminating inflation in five years. While that might be desirable, and while the Fed is clearly and specifically answerable to Congress, it makes no sense to risk forcing the Fed to bring on a devastating downturn.
On one point, the Dorgan-Hamilton bill does offer improvement, by letting a new President name his own man as Fed chairman. The Fed's seven governors have 14-year terms, well insulated from shifting political winds, but the chairmanship is for four years. Currently its timing is haphazard. Each chairman's four years run from whenever he's named. The Dorgan-Hamilton bill would start his term one year after each Presidential term.
For the most part, the Dorgan-Hamilton bill echoes ideas long proposed in past years by Representative Wright Patman, an outspoken populist and Fed critic. The current bill was initiated by Mr. Dorgan, but gets noticed because his co-sponsor is so distinguished, having gained national stature as chairman of the Iran-contra hearings. Mr. Hamilton, driven by neither populist nor monetarist ideology, is worried that vast power is being exercised without clear lines of accountability.
But there's a greater concern: Presidents should not be allowed to inject self-serving politics into the management of monetary policy. For the eight Reagan years, monetary policy compensated for irresponsible fiscal policies with admirable finesse. Critics in Congress who think that monetary management needs more discipline would be well advised to look first to the Government's reckless fiscal management.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (93%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; EDITORIALS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ACCOUNTING (66%); 

PERSON: MOONEY, RICHARD E; DORGAN, BYRON (REPR); HAMILTON, LEE (REPR) BYRON DORGAN (90%); 



87 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: How to Help the Disabled Pay Their Own Way

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It's to be expected that any change as sweeping as extending civil rights to 43 million citizens with disabilities would create some opposition. That there has been so little opposition to the Americans with disabilities bill is a credit to Senate and White House negotiators who spent four months crafting legislation that balances business and disability interests.
Thus, it was all the more disappointing that you chose to align yourself against the President, a strong bipartisan Senate majority and 180 disability, religious and civil rights organizations. Even worse, your editorial of Sept. 6 (''Blank Check for the Disabled?'') exhibited an alarming ignorance of how the bill originated and what it would do. 
The Senate's 76-8 passage of the bill, far from being a rush to avoid ''political suicide,'' was the result of years of study, public debate and domestic diplomacy.
With small businesses crucial to the economy of my home state of Iowa, I have made sure this bill takes their concerns into account. That's why small businesses with fewer than 15 employees are exempted from its employment provisions. That's why the act would provide extensive phase-in for the public to learn about and make the often minimal changes necessary: for employers, two years; for public accommodations, 18 months; for private transportation companies, six to seven years.
You quote me as saying that ''costs do not provide a basis for exemption from the basic principles in a civil rights statute.'' The Congressional Record will show I also said: ''That is not to say, there won't be costs or that it is inappropriate to recognize cost in devising particular standards for inclusion in the bill. For example, cost was a factor in the decision that the bill should not mandate the retrofitting of existing buses; only new buses must be accessible.''
The vast majority of businesses want to employ and accommodate people with disabilities, not out of charity, but because it makes business sense. A 1982 study by the Department of Labor showed that only 22 percent of workers with disabilities require any accommodation to perform their jobs, and in two-thirds of the cases in which accommodations would be necessary, the average cost is less than $100.
The cost of adding a wheelchair ramp, for example, is more than offset by increased revenues from disabled customers or the increased productivity of talented and committed disabled workers.
It does indeed require little skill to ''write blank checks for worthy causes with other people's money.'' For too long, taxpayers have been writing a blank check (last year's was for $57 billion) to keep the disabled dependent, when clearly they want to be contributing members of society. With the Senate's strong approval of the bill, we all begin to get our money's worth.
 
TOM HARKIN
U.S. Senator from Iowa
Washington, Sept. 11, 1989
 The writer, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on the Handicapped, is the lead sponsor of the Americans with disabilities bill.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HANDICAPPED; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISABLED WORKERS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: HARKIN, TOM (SEN) TOM HARKIN (57%); 



88 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2287 words

HEADLINE: Working-Class Families Losing Middle-Class Dreams

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
Gilbert and Debra Matthews enter every penny of his subway motorman's salary on the giant lined sketch pad that serves as their budget, only to find they keep coming up short.
On his truck driver's pay, Harry Biolsi can stay in the Astoria neighborhood where he grew up only becuse he and his family live in his mother's house.
Reynell and Margaret Tyndall squeeze into a two-room apartment with their baby, sharing a kitchen and bath with her sister's family and dreaming of the day they can afford a home of their own.
These are members of an all but invisible class: one out of every four New York families, who earn between $28,000 and $35,000. They hold secure, often blue-collar, jobs -subway motormen, truck drivers, firefighters, factory workers. But they cannot live the middle-class life that seemed within their reach a generation ago. 
''When our parents had us, they had theAmerican dream,'' Mr. Matthews said. ''They said my kids will have more than me. The American dream is gone.''
Mr. Matthews's impressions are borne outby several nationwide statistics. Wages, adjusted for inflation, have not increased since 1973. While wages have been stagnant, the cost of housing has soared. These nationwide trends are magnified in New York City, with its sky-high housing costs and strained public services.
 
When It All Seemed Possible
A number of economists, including Frank Levy of the University of Maryland's School of Public Affairs, conclude that fewer jobs now than in 1973 pay enough to afford a middle-class life.
Many working-class New Yorkers still long for that life - when wives did not have to go to work, a 40-hour week paid the bills, and it seemed possible to save enough money to buy a home.
Some, like the Matthewses, act as if that dream were true - refusing overtime, having wives stay at home to raise children -but the tradeoff means they cannot save money. Others, like the Tyndalls, choose to sacrifice today's comforts in the hope that tomorrow will be better.
For all of them, life in this city feels harder than it used to be. They cannot buy their way out of New York's problems. They no longer trust the public schools to educate their children. They cannot hop a cab if the subway or bus is late. The neighborhoods they can afford to live in are more dangerous and drug-infested.
 
'Like a Biologist Staining a Slide'
''New York is sort of like a biologist staining a slide: it brings things out,'' said Elliott Sclar, professor of urban planning at Columbia University.
''The American dream was always very difficult to hold onto,'' he said. ''It's a dream that doesn't just depend upon your own little house and how well you take care of it. It also depends on how good the services are in the neighborhood, the commitment to good public education, fire and police protection. When you start to look around the neighborhoods of New York, you begin to see a city that has given up.''
But most working-class New Yorkers, even if they sometimes dream of getting out, choose to stay. Despite the urban ills they live with every day, many say they are afraid to gamble what security they have and leave for other cities where prices are lower and life might be easier. Ties to family and friends hold them fast. And most find a corner of New York to savor, and strike a balance between small pleasures and privations.
What follows is a portrait of three families and how they get by in New York.
 
Shards of Glass, Hopes of Flowers
Since the day she arrived in New York from Jamaica three years ago, Margaret Tyndall has clung to a dream. One day, she, her husband, Reynell, and their year-old daughter, Kristina, will have a house with a backyard, maybe even some flowers.
Now they live on a block of rundown brownstones in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, in a small two-bedroom apartment she shares with her sister's family. There are shards of broken glass in the street and graffiti on the boarded-up buildings. Boys shoot baskets through milk crates serving as hoops. Mechanic and Teller One Day, Maybe, A Backyard Sometimes, the Tyndalls said, garbage piles up for two weeks before it is collected. Although they shun Jamaicans in the drug trade, the police will appear at odd hours to show them photographs in case they recognize dealers.
''It's a crummy neighborhood,'' Mrs. Tyndall said as she sat in a living room decorated with maps of Jamaica and baby pictures. ''But at the moment I cannot do better than what I'm doing.''
 
Used to Doing Without
The Tyndalls live in Crown Heights so they can save. Between his job as a maintenance mechanic and hers as a bank clearance teller, handling foreign exchange and messages, they earn $37,000 a year. They are used to doing without.
''We're from the third world, and we know about saving,'' Mr. Tyndall, 33, said with a laugh. They share the apartment with his sister-in-law's family so they can split the $530 monthly rent. They carry their lunches to work. They clip coupons and shop at three different stores, looking for less expensive food. They seldom buy new clothes or eat out. Mr. Tyndall moonlights on weekends.
Their only indulgence is a long call to Jamaica now and then when they feel homesick. Nonetheless, they manage to save about $200 a week from their combined weekly take-home pay of $610.
Holding fast to a Jamaican custom, Mrs. Tyndall is part of a mutual savings group, or ''su su.'' Every week, she and a group of friends deposit $50 to $100 in a joint account. They take turns drawing out all the cash at once, so that they can get large amounts of cash quickly without resorting to bank loans. In another tradition, Mrs. Tyndall saves her silver - quarters and dimes - in a box for Kristina. When the box fills up, she buys savings bonds.
''I don't want her to have to struggle the way we are,'' said Mrs. Tyndall, who is 30.
 
Wealth All Around Them
But their life is not all privation. On their free weekends, they walk with Kristina to the park, take in an occasional movie, and have dinner parties with friends from Jamaica, their work or their church. And every year, they withdraw some of their savings and fly to Jamaica for two weeks.
Despite their qualms about New York - the schools, drugs, crime and services - they find much they like. The subways are convenient and, they say, usually run on time. Their church is close by. The Tyndalls would leave New York only if they found they could not afford to give Kristina a home or a place in Catholic school; they would not send her to public school, fearing violence and drugs.
They see wealth around them, but their dreams are more modest.
''To live like that is Hollywood, right?'' Mr. Tyndall said. ''You don't want to put your hat where you can't reach it.'' Subway Motorman Always in Debt Despite a Good Job Gilbert Matthews, 38, holds a $35,000 job that many who are worse off would envy. The father of four is a subway motorman with the Transit Authority. But he and his wife, Debra, feel little of the security his job might once have brought them.
''I grew up in this neighborhood and back then, it was easy, because homes weren't that much,'' said Debra Matthews, 33, soft-spoken and contained. 'We try to put some money away and build it up, but it's kind of rough.''
Their meticulously kept budget permits few luxuries: cable television, cigarettes, a night out once a month at a family-style restaurant like Red Lobster. Once a year, they leave the children with their grandparents and take a vacation in a warm place like the Bahamas.
But no matter how assiduously they watch their pennies, they still find themselves turning to credit cards. Mr. Matthews said he was always in debt, although he is careful not to fall behind in his payments.
 
Overtime or Meatloaf
''A lot depends on overtime,'' he said. ''If there's overtime, there's steak. If there's no overtime, it's meatloaf.''
In many ways, he and his wife know they are lucky. Most of their health- care costs, like the Tyndalls's and the Biolsis', are covered by benefits. They live in a large, four-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment in the Soundview section of the Bronx. Their living room contains a television, a large radio, their children's pictures and toys piled in one corner. They own a car.
Their $745 monthly rent is partly subsidized, because they live in a Mitchell-Lama apartment complex, built to offer affordable middle-class housing in New York. The apartment towers rise around a pleasant grass courtyard, filled with trees, benches and children running in the twilight.
New York City helped them by providing a relatively low-rent apartment, but they are less pleased with other services. During the day, Mrs. Matthews said, the city bus from Parkchester runs infrequently. Where they once felt safe, drugs are invading their neighborhood. And they are disappointed in the public schools, where they send their children because they cannot afford parochial-school tuition.
 
Penalties for Working Harder
Nor does Mr. Matthews see how he can afford to put his children through college. His oldest is 13; the youngest is 3. ''I think I'm making too much for them to get aid,'' he said. ''Maybe they should think about the service,'' he said, speaking of the military. ''That's a good, steady job.''
Mrs. Matthews said that she would like to work to bring in more money, but that it did not make sense. Most of the extra income would go to rent because in Mitchell-Lama buildings rents increase as incomes rise, and the family would probably end up worse off because Mrs. Matthews would have to pay for child care.
Nor is Mr. Matthews willing to sacrifice time with his family to earn more money.
''If my body was up to it, I could work so much overtime that I could make $60,000 or $90,000,'' he said. ''If I do that for two years, I might get a partial down payment for a home. But I don't want to wreck my body, because I've got to do this job for 20 more years.''
Sometimes they think about leaving New York, where they both grew up and where their parents still live. Mr. Matthews would choose Toronto. ''They have a transit system up there; the schools are fine,'' he said. ''But it's a question of saying I'm leaving my roots.'' Truck Driver Lucky to Live With Mother Flags flutter from doorways and windows. Elderly men sit in their undershirts on beach chairs, surveying the neighborhood from their terraces. A man stands on his roof, tending the grape leaves entwined around his trellis.
This is Astoria, the Queens neighborhood where Harry Biolsi grew up and where he feels lucky to stay. Here houses sell for $275,000 and even studio apartments begin at $500 a month.
Either would be far beyond his means, with his $30,000 truck driver's salary and a wife and four children to support. But Mr. Biolsi lives with his mother in the house she bought in 1944, with its tidy front gate and large backyard. They pay her a modest monthly rent.
''I'm very, very lucky,'' Mr. Biolsi, 48, said as he sat in his spacious living room. #12-Hour Days Not Enough It is hard enough, the Biolsis say, to get by on the salary he does bring home after 12-hour days driving a truck and loading office furniture. To earn a little extra, he will sometimes work on friends' houses, doing minor repairs and home improvements.
Even so, the money flows out faster than it comes in. When his company moved to Paterson, N.J., he bought a second car, because it became too exhausting to commute by bus and train.
Now the Biolsis have to budget two car and insurance payments. They send their 10-year-old daughter and 8-year-old son to Catholic school, because they believe the local public schools are not safe or strict enough. And they have loans and credit card debt to pay off, taken on to buy their television, videocassette recorder and Mr. Biolsi's prize Akita dog.
 
'Guilt Alone Would Kill Me'
''We only save for vacations,'' said Arlene Biolsi, who is 36. ''As soon as we save, something comes up. The bathroom sink plugs up, and we had to have a new dishwasher. We have debts on the card, but they are little things, because we don't let it out of control. We did that once, and never again.''
Mrs. Biolsi worked as a secretary before her children were born, but neither she nor her husband would consider her going back before the children are older. ''I wouldn't allow my wife to go to work,'' Mr. Biolsi said. ''I believe the wife should be with the children.'' Mrs. Biolsi hastened to agree. ''I would hate to have to leave the kids and go to work; the guilt alone would kill me,'' she said.
For the Biolsis, Astoria has everything they need: good shopping, pleasant streets, convenient bus and subway service, good neighbors. On free days, they go bowling together.
 
Perils and Failures
But the Astoria of today is not the safe working-class neighborhood Mr. Biolsi grew up in. The perils and failures of modern city life intrude. Mr. Biolsi bemoans the lost power of the police. He and his wife worry about drugs and violence, even in Astoria.
''I still walk the children to school,'' Mrs. Biolsi said. ''They're not allowed outside alone.''
Yet Mr. Biolsi is content because he can live in the neighborhood he wants. His friends are not so lucky. To find a $100,000 home, the best he could afford, one of his friends at work had to move 85 miles from New York City to Pennsylvania and continues to commute to New Jersey. In Astoria, his mother's friends all have their children moving back in with them.
''The American dream of owning a home - in the city, it's dead,'' he said. ''It might not be dead if you move to Montana, but you have to worry about jobs.''

GRAPHIC: photos of the Biolsi family (NYT/G. Paul Burnett) (pg. B1); the Matthews family (NYT/Ruby Washington) (pg. B6); graphs of family's income and expenses; median earnings of people holding year-round jobs (Source: Census Bureau) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); TRENDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); OVERTIME (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (68%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN



89 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Conquering the Wishbone Behind a Small Force

BYLINE: By RALPH ROUTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COLORADO SPRINGS, Oct. 2

 BODY:
People hear about this elusive little Air Force Academy quarterback named Dee Dowis, whose statistics have turned him into a Heisman Trophy candidate, and the same questions always arise.
How does he do it? How can someone that small, 5 feet 10 inches and 153 pounds, be so dominant in big-time college football? How can he lead the nation's Division I-A schools in rushing and scoring? Is he real or fictional?
The answer begins with his modus operandi, which he repeats dozens of times every Saturday.
 
From Snap to Finish
Dowis takes the snap from center, immediately reacts to defensive movement and either fakes to the fullback or hands off to him.
If Dowis keeps the ball, several swarming tacklers, all intent on slamming this wisp of a quarterback to the ground, are waiting for him. Their size dwarfs him by as much as half a foot and 80 pounds a man. Approaching from different angles, the defense converges rapidly and fearlessly. 
Then, at football's version of the hot corner and Dowis's own private stage, wizardry unfolds.
Sometimes the quarterback will cut sharply, dart inside his pursuers and accelerate into the open field before they can even think of changing direction. If the defense comes too close, he deftly pitches the football to a trailing halfback who cuts upfield.
If the pursuers play soft, giving ground, Dowis waits until the last possible instant before making his decision. Time after time, the defenders have to commit first. The ball, of course, goes elsewhere.
 
A Wishbone Story
That scene, with only a few subtle variations, tells the story of Air Force's basic offensive play: the wishbone triple option.
Few major college teams depend on that play for its well-being, mainly because, in the words of Air Force's head coach, Fisher DeBerry, ''It puts the entire game in the hands of the quarterback.''
Dowis is the quarterback into whose hands DeBerry puts the game, and every game brings new admirers into the fold. Opposing players and coaches praise Dowis as one who is elevating his skill to an art form.
After Dowis ran for 249 yards and six touchdowns in Air Force's season opener, a 52-36 victory over San Diego State, Al Luginbill, the losing head coach, was awestruck.
''That's the best performance I've seen by an individual player - ever,'' said Luginbill, who saw quite a few while building nationally prominent defenses at Arizona State. ''You wouldn't believe this, but yes, our game plan was to stop Dowis. His ability made it impossible to execute our game plan.''
After Dowis came back with 201 yards and two touchdowns the next week to lead a 45-7 rout of Wyoming, the response was similar.
 
Springboard to Heisman
''He's got to be one of the best wishbone quarterbacks in recent years,'' Wyoming's head coach, Paul Roach, said. ''You can probably go back 10 years and he will rank up there with some of the great Oklahoma quarterbacks.''
With those two games as the springboard, Dowis has catapulted into the Heisman derby. In a season with no apparent star runners, he must still be considered a long shot behind two other quarterbacks, Major Harris of West Virginia and Tony Rice of Notre Dame.
Yet, as the games go by with Dowis so prominent in the statistics, and unbeaten Air Force rising into the rankings, nobody is discounting the babyfaced kid from Royston, Ga.
Although Northwestern held Dowis to only 40 rushing yards on Sept. 16, his passing and execution of the triple option were sufficient for Charlie Weatherbie, Air Force's quarterback coach, to call it ''Dee's most complete game ever.''
So far this season he has run for 729 yards and 13 touchdowns; he is averaging 11.2 yards a carry.
 
Next Stop: Navy
The Falcons, 5-0 after a 46-21 victory Saturday at Colorado State, will showcase Dowis on the East Coast this week against Navy at Annapolis, Md.
Dowis's biggest opportunity for national attention will come Oct. 14 when Air Force faces Notre Dame at Colorado Springs. That will be Dowis versus Tony Rice before an overflow crowd of more than 50,000 and a national television audience.
''I don't think I'm a great quarterback,'' Dowis said. ''I'm just playing on a great team. Everybody on the team does their job. Nobody thinks they're the star. I just want to think about winning.
''I'm honored to be mentioned for the Heisman, but it's just something else to clutter up your mind.''
Certainly, Dowis's time is precious. He is taking 19 1/2 hours this fall semester, far more than most players at other schools. The courses aren't shabby, either: behavioral science, engineering, economics, geography and management.
Those academic accomplishments, along with his football feats, have roots deep in the story of Michael Dee Dowis.
 
Home of Ty Cobb
His father, Leonard Dowis, was the football coach at Franklin County High School near the small rural town of Royston, which is better known as the home of baseball great Ty Cobb. Leonard had played football at the University of Georgia; he wanted the same for his son.
Leonard, however, never saw his dream become reality. He died of a heart attack when Dee was 4 years old. Dee's mother was remarried three years later to Harold Brown. Two older sisters were already out of college, so Dee grew up as an only child.
Dowis was an all-state shortstop in baseball and also led Franklin County High to the Georgia football playoffs. He had excellent grades, but his lack of size turned off college recruiters.
Army, another wishbone team, took a closer interest, and a Georgia high school coach told Air Force's staff members about Dowis. Even on film, his potential was evident.
''We couldn't believe how little he was,'' DeBerry said. ''But he had great quickness, he was smart and you can't have enough guys like that.''
 
Skimpy Results
As a freshman he had a handful of playing opportunities, showing potential but with skimpy results.
Being so far from home and dealing with the rigors of cadet life were far tougher adjustments than those he made to college football. During spring break of his freshman year, Dowis visited Vanderbilt and Georgia Tech to talk about transferring, but eventually chose to stay at Air Force.
As a sophomore in 1987, Dowis set a national record for rushing yards (1,315) by a quarterback in leading Air Force to a 9-4 season and the Freedom Bowl. That led to higher expectations for his junior year, but hardly anything went right for him or the Falcons in 1988. He ran for 972 yards - disappointing to him - and Air Force's injury-plagued team slid from a 5-2 start to a 5-7 finish.
In the final game of the 1988 season, Dowis sank to new depths of frustration. He was pulled in the third quarter and had to watch the rest of the game from the sidelines.
During the off season this year, his teammates and coaches began noticing a change in Dowis. Whether it was a desire to vindicate himself or simply the reality of reaching his final season, Dowis became more forceful, suddenly willing to accept a team leadership role.
''He has matured by leaps and bounds in just one year's time,'' Weatherbie said. ''He knows he has to be confident and show that confidence to the team.''
Dowis agrees that he has a different outlook.
''It really hits you to think this is your last year,'' he said. ''I've been playing 15 years, and now suddenly to be coming down to the last one.''
 
Confident and Cocky
The only place where his personality really changes is on the football field. There he comes across as confident, even cocky, always bouncing up from hard hits, frequently altering called plays with audibles at the line of scrimmage.
''He has come into his own now,'' DeBerry said. ''There isn't anything he can't accomplish. The key thing for Dee is, don't try to make it happen. Just let it happen.''
Dowis has also figured out how to justify consenting to all the interview requests.
''If it's good for the Air Force Academy and for our team, I don't mind doing it,'' he said. ''But we've got just one goal, to win, and that's what I want to concentrate on.''
While Dowis takes that approach, everyone else watches his numbers.
''I'm not thinking about the yards,'' Dowis said. ''Our offense just takes what the defense gives us.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Dee Dowis (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (71%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (90%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (90%); AIR FORCE ACADEMY (84%); AIR FORCE ACADEMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (COLORADO)

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COLLEGE ATHLETICS ATHLETES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (76%); 

PERSON: ROUTON, RALPH; DOWIS, DEE



90 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 4; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Andean Culture Found to Be As Old as the Greaty Pyramids

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
ARCHEOLOGISTS working in Peru have unearthed stunning evidence that monumental architecture, complex societies and planned developments first appeared and flowered in the New World between 5,000 and 3,500 years ago - roughly the same period when the great pyramids were built in Egypt and the Sumerian city-states reached their zenith in Mesopotamia.
Stepped pyramids and huge, U-shaped temples more than 10 stories high. Bright multi-colored friezes with jaguar and spider motifs. Broad plazas flanked by residential areas. All these have been uncovered, or partly so, in the first few excavations, made in the last decade, by a number of archeologists working among literally scores of sites in more than 50 narrow river valleys that plunge from the Andes to the Pacific along the length of Peru.
The earliest sites are a thousand years older than their counterparts in Central America, traditionally regarded as the cradle of civilization in the Western Hemisphere, and they are consequently forcing a reassessment of pre-Columbian accomplishments in the Americas. Their antiquity also narrows the gap between the emergence of civilization in the New World and the Old. 
''This idea of the Old World being ahead of the New World has to be put on hold,'' said Richard Burger, a Yale University archeologist who is one of several working to uncover and interpret the remains of the ancient Peruvian civilization.
The ''whopping great monuments'' of the Andes ''invite favorable comparison'' with what was going on in the Middle East, said Michael Moseley, an archeologist at the University of Florida who has long worked in the region.
The culture of the early Andeans never reached the heights of Mesopotamia and Egypt. Neither they nor their descendants, including the Incas 3,000 years later, developed writing or used the wheel. Nor does even the latest evidence show the Andean culture to be nearly as ancient as that of the Fertile Crescent, whose origins date back at least 8,000 years. But some archeologists say that in their ability to construct planned communities and grand structures, organize labor, create art and devise a political system, the Andeans of four millennia ago might have shown up well beside their Old World contemporaries.
However that may be, the evidence of human settlement back then is ''much more spectacular on the West Coast of Peru than it is anywhere in Mexico,'' said Kent Flannery, an archeologist at the University of Michigan who has long worked in Central America. ''I think a lot of people who have worked in Mexico and haven't been to Peru will be surprised at how early and spectacular the stuff is down there.''
The biggest Andean monuments predate the rise of the Mayas in Central America by nearly 2,000 years, and the Aztecs by nearly 3,000. Those civilizations, like that of the Incas, came relatively late. The emerging picture of this earliest American civilization is that of a people tied initially to the sea, living off its bounty, but then moving abruptly - no one knows why - into the Andean highlands to build a flourishing economy based on irrigated agriculture that prospered in spite of the harsh, cold, arid climate at altitudes around 10,000 feet.
 
A Varied Diet
Based on the remains of buildings, art and contents of refuse piles, archeologists say these people dressed in cotton tunics, breechcloths, shawls and capes, and that they lived well on sweet potatoes, peanuts, beans, manioc, fish, shellfish and an occasional deer or sea lion, with guinea pigs a delicacy - ''sort of like caviar,'' Dr. Burger said.
They were no strangers to bloody terror, and may, like the later Aztecs farther north, have practiced human sacrifice.
Archeologists have done only a fraction of the work in the Andes that they have done in the Middle East, and the discoveries of the 1980's in Peru are so fresh that scientists are only beginning to understand the nature of the society that built there.
Some believe the most advanced settlements were urban city-states, governed by a powerful elite that controlled the economic assets, principally its food stocks. Others believe the settlements fell short of being truly urban. They also say there is no evidence so far of the force, oppression and exploitation that are commonly thought to have been a part of Old World city-states. The early Andeans, some say, may have relied instead on economic cooperation, with religion as the binding force, to organize their society.
 
A Different Development Path
In any case, there is wide agreement that the early Andeans took a developmental path different from that of the Old World and even from that of Central America. Not least, the Andean civilization appears to have been more diffuse and decentralized because the isolated valleys forced it to develop that way.
All of this is bringing about a third radical revision of thought about the origins of Andean civilization. First, the Incas took credit for having invented it. Then, early in this century, the Inca claim was disproved by the German archeologist Max Uhle, who found a long succession of pre-Inca cultures stretching back some 1,500 years. Uhle theorized that the advanced cultures of Central America had touched off the evolution of South American civilization.
This was challenged beginning in the 1920's by the Peruvian archeologist Julio C. Tello, who contended that Andean civilization was home-grown and that its progenitor was the Chavin culture, named for Chavin de Huantar, a monumental ceremonial center that flourished in the highlands of central Peru some 2,500 years ago. There, Tello contended, Andean civilization crystallized and spread to less developed regions in the highlands and on the coast.
 
Revision of Explanations
Archeologists accepted Tello's explanation for half a century. But now, on the basis of the last decade's discoveries, they are concluding that Chavin de Huantar was not the cultural fountainhead, but rather the culmination of developments that began some 2,000 years earlier in other areas.
The revision does not stop there. Donald Lathrap, an archeologist at the University of Illinois at Urbana, believes on the basis of archeological finds of items dating back 8,000 years, that both the Mesoamerican and Andean civilizations have common roots in neolithic chiefdoms that existed in the central Amazon 7,000 to 8,000 years ago. ''The cradle was there,'' said Dr. Lathrap, and the culture ''spread out both to Mexico and Peru.''
The Andean temples and secular structures of 5,000 to 3,000 years ago that are now being uncovered have burst on the archeological scene with what Dr. Moseley calls ''thunderingly dramatic'' effect and are the most compelling force in the reappraisal. They are even more dramatic because the dry cold of the Andes has preserved them exquisitely. Adobe friezes and sculptures that might have been destroyed in another climate are preserved almost intact, with their vivid reds, blues and blacks still showing. Seeds, pollen and animal skeletons are not fossils, but real.
It is something of a mystery to archeologists why any major civilization would develop in the Andean valleys and on the Peruvian coast. The region's altitude and aridity make it ''grossly hostile,'' said Dr. Moseley, who added: ''That anyone ever lived there is a bit of a surprise.''
But they clearly did, as evidenced by the remains of scores of ancient communities, from the Jequetepeque Valley of Peru in the north to the Lurin Valley in the south, that have been investigated in the last decade. Typically, each community has at its center a monumental public structure, usually built in a ''U'' shape.
 
Culture Started on the Coast
The earliest of these, documented by radiocarbon dating as having been built some time from 5,000 to 4,100 years ago, were established along the coast on sites as large as 140 acres. At most sites, the temples were surrounded by residential areas and refuse deposits. A representative temple of this period, at Aspero on the coast, was about three stories high and measured 98 by 131 feet at its base.
Around 4,000 to 3,700 years ago, activity abruptly shifted inland and irrigated agriculture replaced fishing as the main economic resource.
The temples themselves appeared to have both a religious and secular function. One of the few to be radiocarbon dated is at a site 3,100 to 3,400 years old called Cardal, south of Lima, excavated by a team headed by Dr. Burger. A huge three-story stairway leads up to the entrance to the four-story temple. At the top, flanking the entrance to the temple's inner chamber, are two enormous mouths, each with three-foot-long fangs and interlocking teeth, painted red and yellow.
 
A Pyramid 10 Stories High
When the Andeans moved inland, they increased the size of their monumental buildings. The largest to be discovered so far is a colossal stepped pyramid, more than 10 stories high, at a site called Sechin Alto in the Casma River Valley north of Lima. On the basis of preliminary radiocarbon dating, it is thought to be 3,400 to 3,700 years old.
Sechin Alto may have been in some sort of loose regional association with another Casma Valley complex, the most spectacular site to be excavated and dated so far. Called Pampa de las Llamas-Moxeke and dating back 3,500 to 3,800 years, it has been excavated by Dr. Shelia and Dr. Thomas Pozorski, a husband-and-wife archeological team at Pan American University in Edinburgh, Tex.
The site contains a U-shaped temple 10 stories high. Up a hill to the north is a three-story secular public building. Between them is a huge plaza, about two-thirds of a mile long, flanked by smaller buildings and dwellings.
Based on their excavations, the Pozorskis believe that the large secular building, which archeologists call Huaca A, or Mound A, was a food storehouse that held the community's accumulated wealth. The arrangement of the rooms was such that access would have been easy to control, and the Pozorskis say that some sort of a bureaucratic elite probably exercised power by controlling these economic assets.
''If our interpretation is true about this warehouse,'' said Shelia Pozorski, ''it was a very powerful economic weapon over the people.'' This, along with the complexity of the site, its size, its precise planning and the high degree of labor mobilization and organization required to build the monuments, leads the Pozorskis to conclude that Pampa de las LLamas-Moxeke was an early city-state.
But Dr. Burger and others believe that the Peruvian centers followed what Dr. Burger calls ''a special evolutionary path.''
He said there is no evidence in Peru of any kind of social stratification along economic lines. The right to use irrigation canals, he says, was probably tied to ''your responsibilities in construction of the monumental architecture, and in ceremonies. The glue would be religion.''
 
Evidence of Complex Society
Bigger than a football field and as high as a three-story building, the Peruvian warehouse reconstructed above is 3,500 to 3,800 years old. It testifies to a complex South American civilization from a far earlier period than previously thought. Called Huaca A, it is one of two dominant structures at the site, in the Casma Valley on the north coast; the other is the ruin of a 10-story-high temple. The many storage rooms may illuminate how the society was organized, with leaders controlling production, stockpiling and distribution of agricultural products and luxury goods. At right, a typical storage room with floor matting and mud-plastered walls.
 
Source: Reconstruction adapted from Jo Ann Bastaroli

GRAPHIC: Drawings; map of peru showing location of Pampa de las Llamas Moxeke (NYT) (pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); EGYPT (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU; CENTRAL AMERICA

SUBJECT: ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; ARCHITECTURE ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K



91 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 3, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: DOCTOR'S WORLD;
The Proper Time to Tell Doctors What Will Be Expected of Them

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.

 BODY:
SEVERAL leaders in medical education and health care say the risks and responsibilities of becoming a physician should be explained clearly to students before they enter medical school, not during training as is now customary.
The concern reflects the impact of the AIDS epidemic, the growth of the medical profession as a public institution and increasing concern over professional misconduct.
Applicants to medical schools now receive piles of brochures describing the curriculum, the institutions, their contributions to medicine and tuition fees.
But they receive surprising little information about a physician's obligation to treat people. It would be the rare medical school, for instance, that sent applicants or entrants a suggested reading list about the traditions of the medical profession and the ethical obligations of physicians. 
Yet pressures are rising for schools to begin to provide, in future application forms and during interviews, more explicit information about the traditions of the profession and a young physician's duty to society. There is concern not only about the obligation to treat but also about such problems as cheating, fraudulent research, drinking alcohol on duty, drug abuse, and having sex with patients.
The current assumption is that students learn about their ethical duties as they advance along the educational ladder to become physicians. But the assumption has not always been correct.
Critics contend that the failure to specify principles and codes to students before admission to medical school leaves them free to say ''no one told me,'' even when they should have known such behavior was wrong.
Moreover, a student who strongly disagrees with the idea that a doctor must treat a patient who threatens the doctor's own health might learn about it too late to decide against going into the profession. Such a physician may face continuing unresolved dilemmas. A crucial issue is AIDS, which has created a controversy over physicians' ethical duty to treat patients when such care may pose health risks to them, their spouses and future children.
It is a a medical credo that physicians have a moral obligation to attend the sick, and most physicians have honored that ethic over the centuries. Yet a generation or two has forgotten the risks that doctors ran from polio, syphilis, tuberculosis and many other communicable diseases when they were dominant health problems. Willingness to risk their own health in the service of others is one reason why doctors have enjoyed high social status and incomes.
Yet because of a longstanding reluctance to force people to provide services against their will, it is unlikely that physicians will lose their medical licenses for refusing care.
Dr. Albert R. Jonsen, who heads the department of medical history and ethics at the University of Washington in Seattle, says American law does not require physicians to provide services to any particular person unless that person is already the doctor's patient.
''Nevertheless, the traditional ethics impose a strong duty to treat anyone in need of care even at cost or risk to oneself,'' Dr. Jonsen wrote in the magazine University of Washington Medicine, now Medicine Northwest.
Still, there is a growing realization that unless doctors are subject to penalty, statements by major medical societies about a physician's obligation to treat will be taken as empty, self-promotional slogans. A broader underlying reason for the change is the heavy taxpayer subsidization of the costs of medical education and the direct public payments for most costs of medical care and medical research. As medicine has become more of a public institution, there has been an increasing recognition that doctors owe society something that other professions do not.
But medical students may not realize that the Government could exact a price for this support.
For example, doctors frequently complain about losing autonomy through increasing government regulations without recognizing what they gain from public funds. Uwe E. Reinhardt of Princeton University, who is an expert on the economics of health affairs and medical education, said that medical students must be made to understand they cannot avoid dealing with the government when it pays for almost half the health care bill.
''Every entering medical student in this country should be duly warned'' about the obligations to patients and society and what professional life is going to be like, Dr. Reinhardt said. In a preface to ''Technology, Bureaucracy, and Healing in America,'' by Roger J. Bulger, (University of Iowa Press), Dr. Reinhardt said that such warnings should be chiseled into every medical school's portal.
''Not to warn medical students thus would be irresponsible,'' Dr. Reinhardt said. ''On the other hand, having been duly warned, it would be just as irresponsible for physicians to deny a legitimate role for government in health care.'' Understanding and accepting personal risk in the practice of medicine head the ideal list of the basic professional values and attitudes, the Association of American Medical Colleges in Washington said in a report on the AIDS epidemic and medical education published earlier this year.
''Institutions should state unambiguously their expectations that medical students and residents have a professional responsibility to provide care'' to patients who are infected with the AIDS virus and to whom they are assigned, the report said.
Yet the latest national survey of medical students found that 11 percent disagreed with the premise that physicians have an ethical obligation to treat patients with dangerous infectious diseases.
Dr. Robert F. Jones, who helped develop the report as a member of the medical colleges staff, said the association was considering preparing a pamphlet that could be distributed with applications from all medical schools. He said his association had discussed the possibility of developing videotapes that might be shown at the time students interview for medical school.
The report is not binding on the 127 medical schools in this country, and a spot check of medical schools over recent months found none that included such a statement in the material sent to applicants.
Dr. Robert G. Petersdorf, the president of the medical colleges association, said he was unaware of any schools that had carried out the report's recommendations, though some may be taking steps to do so.
Educational institutions often are slow to change their ways, and some critics contend that medical schools may need to be nudged to highlight the risks and obligations at a time when the number of applicants to medical schools has been dropping. The word profession is derived from the Latin meaning a public vow, and a hallmark of a profession is the traditions and values it passes on to new generations.
Dr. Michael E. Whitcomb, the dean of the University of Washington Medical School, said it might be better for students to be asked to take the Hippocratic Oath at the beginning of medical school, so they would be encouraged to think about the demands traditionally placed on doctors.
Medical schools have tended to focus the admissions process on the achievements of the students rather than the expectations of them as physicians.
''We should make it clearer to first-year medical students what our expectations are in terms of the ethical and moral behavior of physicians,'' Dr. Whitcomb said in a recent interview.
''If you come to this school and you refuse to care for an AIDS patient, or some similar problem, that is grounds for dismissal,'' Dr. Whitcomb said, ''just as you say if you cheat you are out.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ETHICS; MEDICAL SCHOOLS; DOCTORS MEDICAL EDUCATION (94%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ETHICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); AIDS & HIV (77%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (77%); EPIDEMICS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); TUITION FEES (73%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (52%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K



92 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Zenith Electronics is leaving the computer business. In a surprising announcement, the company said it would sell the division to Groupe Bull for about $635 million in an attempt to concentrate on its consumer electronics. [Page D1.] Zenith is cashing in one of its most valuable chips to bet on the risky new technology of high-definition television, analysts said. [D7.] 
 
USX plans to sell the reserves of its Texas Oil and Gas subsidiary, which has failed to earn a consistent profit in recent years. [D1.]
 
The new chairman of Northwest Airlines left no doubt that he would be involved in managing the company on a continuing basis and he predicted gains for the carrier. [D1.]
 
Bank of Boston will report a $125 million loss for the third quarter after raising its reserves by $370 million to cover problem real estate loans in New England. [D4.]
 
Cray Research plans to lay off about 400 of its assembly workers, or a little more than 7 percent of its work force. [D4.]
 
Lockheed expects to take a charge of about $165 million against third-quarter earnings. [D4.]
 
ECONOMY
 
A House subcommittee voted unanimously to tighten automobile tailpipe emission controls, establishing national pollution standards as strict as California's. [A1.]
 
An employer may bar all fertile women from factory jobs that pose a potential health risk to an unborn child, a Federal Appeals Court in Chicago has ruled. [A16.]
 
The Supreme Court refused to intervene in an Illinois prosecution of Chicago Magnet Wire on charges of exposing employees to toxic chemicals. [A17.]
 
Resolution Trust set aside almost $8 billion for five troubled savings institutions under its control, officials said. [D11.]
 
California's insurance commissioner barred auto insurers from raising rates for six months while the state determines how to implement the rate-cutting initiative approved last year. [D3.]
 
The nation's purchasing managers reported a continuing slowing in the manufacturing sector in their September report. The group's index rose to 46 percent, from 45.2 percent in August. [D1.] Construction spending made its biggest monthly advance of the year in August. The gain was in Government and nonresidential building, while single-family housing continued to sag. [D5.]
 
While President Bush and Treasury Secretary Brady have worked publicly in recent days to rebut criticism of their strategy for reducing third world debt, offstage developments demonstrate that important progress is being made. News Analysis. [D1.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stock prices reversed an early downtrend and registered a solid advance. The Dow climbed 20.90 points, to 2,713.72. [D8.]
 
Treasury note and bond prices were narrowly mixed in slow trading, as market participants shrugged off the September survey of the nation's purchasing managers. [D16.]
 
The dollar rose in quiet trading, resisting continued selling by central banks. [D17.]
 
An extension of the International Coffee Agreement received the necessary backing of importing and exporting nations, allowing it to take effect without new provisions for price supports. [D17.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
A new type of mutual fund is under investigation. The funds have attracted billions of dollars from investors. Market Place. [D1.]
 
New challenges in regulating the communications industries have been created by improved technology and globalization. Talking Business with Alfred Sikes of the F.C.C. [D2.]
 
The most important factor affecting marketing executives is ''a mass movement to individuality,'' the chairman of Young & Rubicam says. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BULL (PAR) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BULL SAS (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); AIRLINES (75%); INSURANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); COFFEE & TEA (74%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); BONDS (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); CHEMICALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (63%); BOND MARKETS (63%); COFFEE (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



93 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: USX Is Planning to Sell Texas Oil Unit Reserves

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The USX Corporation, the giant steel and energy company, said yesterday that it planned to sell the reserves of its Texas Oil and Gas Corporation subsidiary.
Texas Oil, which USX acquired in 1986 in a stock deal valued at $3 billion, has failed to earn a consistent profit in recent years. Its vast gas reserves include about 1.2 trillion cubic feet in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, Colorado and Kansas. Its oil reserves are relatively small, at 28 million barrels. 
The Pittsburgh-based USX said it was selling the reserves, which account for about a third of the unit's sales, because of growing stock market interest in natural gas producers. ''The market for natural gas properties has improved,'' said William E. Keslar, a USX spokesman. ''It seemed like an appropriate time to see if we can sell.''
On the New York Stock Exchange, USX was up $1.75 yesterday, to $34.875. USX was the second-most-active issue on the Big Board, with 2.8 million shares being traded.
 
Move to Diversify
Texas Oil, based in Dallas, has been a disappointment since it was acquired three years ago by the former United States Steel Corporation, which was trying to diversify further from what was then an ailing steel industry. The steel giant had made a $6 billion acquisition of the Marathon Oil Company four years before acquiring Texas Oil.
Analysts yesterday viewed the move to sell the Texas Oil reserves as a plan to reduce the steelmaker's long-term debt further. The debt, largely from the Marathon acquisition, now stands at about $5.8 billion.
USX said the proceeds would be used to reduce the debt and to repurchase shares, although it said it had not determined how much would go to each.
The once-prosperous Texas Oil and Gas Corporation has been hurt in recent years by falling natural gas prices. USX's former chairman, David M. Roderick, and his successor, Charles A. Corry, have contended that the low-cost gas producer would show improved earnings once excess gas supplies fell in the early 1990's.
Indeed, Texas Oil posted operating income of $377 million in 1985, the year before it was acquired by USX. But under the United States Steel banner, Texas Oil's operating results fell to a loss of $21 million the following year.
The subsidiary earned $2 million in 1987, and then had an operating loss of $31 million last year, as natural gas prices dropped to an average $1.72 per thousand cubic feet, from $2.66 the previous year. Texas Oil had a $134 million operating profit for the first half of this year, and Mr. Corry, who became USX's chairman earlier this year, called that an indication that the market had bottomed for natural gas.
The gas fields involved in the planned sale include small- to medium-sized reserves, principally in the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma and Texas and the Arkoma Basin in Oklahoma and Arkansas. After the sale, USX would still have the subsidiary's gas-gathering and transmission business. Also, USX would still have the substantial - 3.5 trillion cubic feet - natural gas reserves of Marathon Oil, which are nearly three times the size of those of Texas Oil. Marathon's reserves are primarily in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Alaska.
USX said it would sell the reserves piecemeal or in one transaction. ''The timetable is difficult to assess, because, with property throughout six states, it will likely be a complicated transaction,'' Mr. Keslar, the USX spokesman, said.
 
Large Price Seen
The analysts were divided on how much the Texas Oil reserves would bring, but they agreed that the properties would be more attractive than a year ago.
''The Texas Oil and Gas reserves could go for as much as $1 billion,'' said Scott Jones, an analyst with the AUS Group, a economic forecasting company based in Philadelphia.
James S. Jordan, an analyst with Lovett, Mitchell, Webb & Garrison Inc. in Houston, said the Texas Oil reserves could bring as much as $1.5 billion. ''And that does not take into account the fact that there could be large probable reserves,'' he said.
''The Tenneco and Transco deals made it clear that there are buyers out there,'' he added, referring to divestitures of natural gas properties over the last year by Tenneco Inc. and the Transco Corporation. ''I expect there will be a lot of people looking at those properties.''
Tenneco late last year sold its natural gas reserves in a $7.3 billion divestiture of its oil and gas properties. The analysts then said they were surprised by the strength of the bids. Also, the Amerada Hess Corporation, earlier this year, agreed to pay $911 million - a price the analysts at the time said was surprisingly high - for most of the oil and natural gas reserves of Transco's Exploration Partners Ltd. unit.
 
Less Drilling This Year
Mr. James said natural gas drilling activity had declined by 5 percent to 6 percent this year, indicating that supply would likely come into closer balance with demand.
Meanwhile, earnings have improved at USX's Marathon Oil subsidiary and in the company's steel operations. Marathon's operating income was up, to $506 million last year from $125 million in 1987, and the unit had operating an profit of $498 million for the first six months of this year.
USX's steel operating earnings were up, to $501 million last year from $125 million in 1987, after a loss of about $1.4 billion in 1986. The company's steel business earned $270 million in the first six months of this year.

GRAPHIC: photo of Charles A. Corry (AP); graphs of sales of Texas Oil and Gas Corp. by business segment (Source: USX)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (96%); X (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (96%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (94%); TEXAS OIL & GAS CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS OIL & GAS CORP; USX CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; CORRY, CHARLES A



94 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Offstage Gains on Debt;
As Bush Faces Harsh Criticism by Bankers, Some Countries Are Earnestly Negotiating

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
While President Bush and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady have worked publicly in recent days to rebut criticism of the Administration's strategy for reducing third world debt, offstage developments demonstrate that important progress on debt is indeed being made.
 
In meetings at the
Treasury and the White House last week and in speeches at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, Mr. Bush and Mr. Brady were faced with critical bankers and some skeptical government officials.
The critics said the seven-month-old policy, which emphasizes debt reduction as an important part of solving the developing world's $1.3 trillion debt problem, raised expectations unfairly in debtor countries, adding that it had not been well thought out, put pressure on banks and diverted attention from the need for new lending.
The bankers also said the strategy, known as the Brady plan, lacked the financial backing needed to make debt reduction more attractive. 
But while these criticisms were aired, Venezuela and Argentina took steps to better their chances for successful debt negotiations, some banks stepped in to help and government officials suggested some regulatory policy changes that were needed.
 
'Pot of Boiling Emotions'
''The I.M.F. was a pot of boiling emotions, public turmoil, with very positive undercurrents,'' said John S. Reed, the chairman of Citicorp, the leader of the bank negotiating teams. ''I think it will work out, but it has got to settle down a bit.''
The Venezuelans, whose negotiations with commercial bankers had been stalled for months, revamped their debt proposal and got an interim $600 million loan from 15 banks. The I.M.F. said it would release a $1.4 billion standby credit to Argentina even before an agreement with the country's commercial bank lenders to pay more than $4 billion of interest in arrears. The move should open the way to start negotiations on a debt reduction and restructuring package.
Government regulators indicated that they could take steps to make it more attractive for banks to lend money to debtor countries. Bankers at J. P Morgan & Company, which drew much criticism last week with its move to set aside a 100 percent cushion against bad third world loans, tried to indicate they were not sending such a negative message.
Another factor seems to be helping progress. That is the apparent commitment of some debtor countries to take the steps needed to open their markets, sell state-owned enterprises and attract both new investment and the capital that fled the country.
 
Commitments Can Disappear
These commitments can disappear. But they seem to be part of the same wave of economic realization that is touching the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and parts of Asia, which may make them more lasting.
Bankers have been waiting since March for some indication of what the United States and its allies would do to encourage debt reduction or new loans by changing or modifying existing accounting, tax and other rules.
E. Gerald Corrigan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, told them what they wanted to hear when he addressed the Group of 30 nations in Washington on Monday. Mr. Corrigan indicated in a speech, bankers said, that Federal bank regulators would be willing to go as far as prudently possible to limit the need to set aside reserves to cover new loans to Mexico and other countries. And Pierre Beregovoy, France's Finance Minister, said he would adjust tax rules ''to given incentives to French banks to get involved in the process.''
Morgan executives went out of their way to indicate that their move to increase their reserves against bad loans should not be taken as a signal that Morgan, or other banks that made similar moves, would cut off all new lending to debtor countries.
 
More Flexibility
Rodney Wagner, vice chairman of the credit policy committee at Morgan, said: ''We believe we have more flexibility and can do more in these countries than we have before. We're in a position where we can play a more constructive role.''
Venezuela dropped its demand for a 50 percent debt reduction across the board and, instead, will offer a sliding scale of debt reduction options to the banks. It has also included a new money option. Both changes were applauded by bankers, many of whom joined in the $600 million bridge loan. With it and $400 million of its own reserves, Planning Minister Miguel Rodriguez Fandeo said Venezuela will be able to wipe out its interest arrears by the end of the year.
The standby loan for Argentina is even a more important signal. It shows that a country still far behind on interest payments - which neither the fund nor the bankers like -can get a chance to get back on the recovery and negotiating tracks.
The efforts of Argentina's new President, Carlos Saul Menem, to overhaul the economy have impressed some bankers. But others are still worried about the nation's commitment. ''Argentina always starts with big hopes and then it deflates,'' said one banker who asked not to be named.
These developments came as Mexico, which concluded the first negotiation under the Brady plan, prepared to begin its road show to sell the plan to more than 400 banks.
 
Showing Some Progress
Together, these events show some progress, especially when compared with the last years of the Reagan Administration, when attempts to work out the debt problem basically came to a halt.
But that is all they show - movement where there had been none. There is no single success story yet and even Mexico could become a disappointment if it fails to get a proper mix of debt reduction and new money.
Jeffrey Sachs, a Harvard economist and a critic of the Brady plan and the banks, foresaw a disaster. ''The noose is tightening on these countries,'' he said, adding, ''It's a dreadful failure.''
But A. W. Clausen, the chairman of BankAmerica, seemed to reflect a more benign vision. He claimed no success yet but argued that the leading bankers would move ahead, despite their criticism last week about the Brady plan.
''These banks are money center banks,'' he said. ''They are statesman-like banks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (76%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEBTOR NATIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



95 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Talking Business with Sikes of the F.C.C.;
Communication Challenges Seen

BYLINE: By Calvin Sims

 BODY:
Alfred C. Sikes was sworn in as chairman of the Federal Communications Commission in August, succeeding Dennis R. Patrick, a Reagan appointee who was a champion of deregulation. Mr. Sikes, who is 49 years old, had been administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the communications policy arm of the Commerce Department, since 1986.
Mr. Sikes is expected to continue many of the free-market policies initiated by Mr. Patrick. In a recent interview, Mr. Sikes said competition, new technology and a globalization of the marketplace had created new challenges in regulating the communication industries.
 
Q. In this new era of competition and advanced communication technology, do we need more or less regulation?
 
A. You have to take a hard look at this new technology and formulate policies based on it. We need to revise some of the old laws in the context of risks and rewards. I think over all we need freer markets and consequently that would suggest less regulation and yet there is a need for more regulation in some areas. As markets are freed, lethargic enterprises can no longer be lethargic. They have to look carefully at their costs, service, prices, and at innovation. As a result, the consumer gets lower prices and better products. 
 
Q. What goals or agenda have you set?
 
A. One of our main goals is making the public telephone network more feature-rich and delivering more services. We also want these services delivered to the entire country and to all users. You have to look to smaller, more innovative companies for these services. So we need to find ways and incentives to get these smaller companies to participate in this marketplace. We also want to encourage innovation and efficiency in the use of the radio spectrum. We need a more efficient way of allocating and using the spectrum. In addition, I want the F.C.C. to be more global-minded. In the past, the commission made regulatory decisions that did not account for the ever-expanding international marketplace.
 
Q. Earlier this year, the commission adopted profit-incentive regulation in the form of ''price caps'' for the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Should such regulation be extended to regional companies as well?
 
A. I believe strongly that we have to be able to provide the setting to cause local exchange carriers to reduce costs and invest in demand-inducing technologies. I support the broad notion of incentive regulation and we are looking at price caps for the regional phone companies.
 
Q. Some in Congress have suggested taking jurisdiction of the regulated phone companies away from Judge Harold H. Greene, who presided over the breakup of A.T.&T., and giving it to the F.C.C. Do you favor such a move?
 
A. I don't think a judge and a couple of law clerks should be regulating such a dynamic industry. We have approximately 1,800 employees who have schooled themselves in the communication area and it strikes me that we are more qualified to assess the risks and rewards of this industry.
 
Q. There is a move in Congress to reinstate the ''fairness doctrine,'' which required broadcasters to give contrasting views on issues of public importance. How would you respond to its reinstatement?
 
A. If Congress decides to reinstate it we would enforce it because Congress makes the law. I do not favor the fairness doctrine. I was a broadcaster and I have seen the practical effects of the doctrine. Broadcasters were so afraid that they would be cited if they carried more news on one subject or editorialized and that they would have to hire a slew of Washington lawyers to defend them. As a consequence, many broadcasters stayed out of the editorial business. Fundamentally, I think that broadcasting should be shielded by the First Amendment.
 
Q. Is the average consumer better off today with the breakup of A.T.&T.?
 
A. Do I think that Aunt Minnie was the recipient of great benefits as the result of divestiture? No, I do not. I think that as chilling as a monopoly environment can be, it can be somewhat appealing to the consumer because one-stop shopping is attractive. But as you look down the road, people will be more informed about their choices and in the final analysis choice is going to be an important engine for progress in this country.

GRAPHIC: photo of Alfred C. Sikes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TITLE: TALKING BUSINESS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (66%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (66%); AT&T INC (58%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS & INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; SIKES, ALFRED C



96 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Climb Broadly as Dow Rises 20.90

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stocks reversed an early downtrend yesterday to register a solid and broad advance, but trading was slow.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 20.90 points, to 2,713.72. At the same time, gaining stocks on the New York Stock Exchange exceeded declining issues by 861 to 598.
Market participants pointed out that futures-related trading by institutions - which in this case involved selling the futures and buying the actual shares in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index - became a factor in the last hour as it has in the last few sessions. This also lifted volume about 15 percent in the final 60 minutes. 
''The fact that the Dow moved well above 2,700 on a closing basis should restore some of the technical momentum in the stock market,'' said Eugene E. Peroni, chief technical analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. in Philadelphia. ''Equities are still saddled with the culprits of irregular volume and breadth momentum as well as only sharply focused leaership.''
Mr. Peroni said that earnings results and perceived interest rate trends could provide an inordinate impact in shaping the Dow's behavior through midmonth.
Stocks were off broadly but narrowly in early trading in the wake of a report by purchasing agents that was later released showing a drop in prices in August. As expected, this data provided an initial spurt for the long bond in the credit markets although it ended only slightly higher for the day.
 
Big Board Volume Tumbles
Volume on the Big Board was sharply lower, with only 127.4 million shares exchanging hands, down from 155.3 million shares on Friday.
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.72 points, to 350.87, while the New York Stock exchange composite index gained 0.93, to 194.90.
Active blue chips included I.B.M, off 5/8, to 108 5/8; A.T.&T., up 1/4, to 44 1/4; General Electric up 1 1/4, to 57 3/4, and Eastman Kodak, up 1 5/8, to 48.
Among other individual issues, Kellogg dropped 2 1/4, to 71 3/8. The company said that as a result of intense industry competition, it expects to report lower earnings in the third quarter.
Zenith Electronics jumped 3 1/4 points, to 17 3/4. The company said that it expected to show a net gain of $22 million from the planned sale of its computer business to Groupe Bull of France.
USX rose 1 3/4, to 34 7/8. The company said that it planned to solicit bids for the purchase of the oil and gas reserves of its Texas oil and gas subsidiary and that it had retained the First Boston Corporation to help in the sale.
Coca-Cola, meanwhile, rose 1 1/2, to 68 1/2. The company said it would realize a $500 million-plus profit from the sale of its stake in Columbia Pictures Entertainment to the Sony Corporation.
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich dropped 1 7/8, to 10 1/4, and was the Big Board's most active stock, on a volume of more than 3.3 million shares. It was also one of the biggest percentage losers. The publisher recently sold six theme parks to the Anheuser-Busch Companies for $1.1 billion. The view of some analysts that the price was too low caused the stock to plummet last week.
Motorola slipped 5/8, to 57 1/8. The company said it would reduce its work force of 105,000 by 2,500 and take a pretax provision of about $43 million in the third quarter.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market value index added 0.90, to 389.66, while in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index jumped 2.27 points, to 475.19.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BULL (PAR) (80%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BULL SAS (80%); JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT INC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRENDS (90%); FUTURES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H



97 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Savings Agency Allocates $8 Billion for 5 Institutions

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
The Resolution Trust Corporation, the agency created by Congress to clean up the savings and loan industry, set aside almost $8 billion on Friday for five severely troubled savings institutions under its control, its officials said today.
Regulators said the allocation of funds was in preparation for selling the institutions to investors. The size of the allocation suggests the final cost to the Government of paying for the losses at these institutions, which have total assets of $9 billion and liabilities of $12 billion. 
The allocation was done to meet a deadline set by Congress that required the trust agency to spend $20 billion on savings and loan resolutions by Sept. 30. ''We had a statutory deadline by which we had to spend the money, and we felt this was the best, safest and most prudent thing to do,'' said Steven Katsanos, chief spokesman for the agency.
Last Friday, the agency intended to lend $7.9 billion to the $1 billion Freedom Savings and Loan Association of Tampa, Fla; the $2.6 billion Hill Financial Savings Association of Red Hill, Pa.; the $1 billion Pacific Savings Bank of Costa Mesa, Calif.; the $1.8 billion Peoples Heritage Savings Bank of Salina, Kan., and the $2.6 billion University Federal Savings Association of Easton, Tex.
In return, the five institutions were to buy Government securities, which the agency was to hold as security on the loans.
The trust agency would not break down how much went to each thrift institution.
Last month, the agency announced that it hoped to sell the five institutions by Sept. 30. But confusion among regulators over guidelines governing the sale delayed the date. Regulators now predict the institutions will be sold within a week.
But instead of completing the transaction, Treasury officials blocked it and refused to transfer funds to the five institutions Friday, citing a provision that barred the investment of taxpayer dollars in Government securities. Treasury officials said late tonight that ''as far as we're concerned, there was no transaction.''
However, there was confusion on how failure to complete the transaction would affect the fiscal 1989 and 1990 budget deficits. The 1989 fiscal year ended Sept. 30. One Treasury official predicted that, as a result, the 1990 deficit would increase by $8 billion.
The savings and loan rescue law required that the agency spend $20 billion in the 1989 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30. The agency, according to Mr. Katsanos, spent $8.1 billion on replacing high-cost deposits at sick savings institutions with Government loans carrying a lower interest rate, almost $459 million to help sick savings institutions under its control pay off Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Board loans, $1.8 billion on 24 liquidations and resolutions, $7.9 billion to the five institutions and $2 billion on an emergency liquidity fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SALINA, KS, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: TD BANK US HOLDING CO (55%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (93%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; BANKS AND BANKING SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C



98 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 61 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Trust Steady

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Consumer confidence in the American economy was steady in September, after dropping sharply in August, the Conference Board said yesterday in a survey that suggested a recession was unlikely for the immediate future. The business research group's Consumer Confidence Index totaled 115.4 in September, the same as the previous month. The July figure was 120.4.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD INC (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); 



99 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
MBIA Buying All of Stock In Bond Investors Guaranty

 BODY:
Reflecting narrowing profit margins in the municipal bond insurance business, MBIA Inc., the industry's largest company, said yesterday that it had agreed to buy all the common stock in the Bond Investors Guaranty Insurance Company, the fourth largest, for $275 million in cash.
A sharp decline in new municipal issues since the passage of the 1986 Tax Act has crimped margins for insurers.
''There is too much capacity in the business,'' said Harvey H. Bundy 3d, an analyst at William Blair & Company in Chicago. ''Bond Investors went aggressively for market share early on, but later there was a feeling among their shareholders that they weren't getting the return that existed when they first entered the business.'' 
MBIA bought the stock in Bond Investors from American International Group Inc., the Bankers Trust New York Corporation, the Government Employees Insurance Company, Salomon Inc. and the Xerox Credit Corporation.
The shareholders founded Bond Investors in 1985.
William O. Bailey, MBIA's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement that ''when presented with the opportunity to acquire the existing portfolio of Bond Investors Group, we recognized its value to us and the economies of administration we could realize.''
Telephone calls to officials at Bond Investors were not returned yesterday.
Mr. Bundy at William Blair said, however, that MBIA might have spent too much to acquire the smaller firm.
''It strikes me as quite a rich price,'' he said. ''The shareholders in BIG certainly made a profit, even though it is not clear how much capital they put into the business.''
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, MBIA shares were unchanged at $27.50.
Upon completion of the transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals and final action on documents, Bond Investors' municipal bond insurance portfolio will be reinsured by the MBIA Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of MBIA Inc. BIG will cede its unearned premium reserve and contingency reserve to the MBIA subsidiary.
As a result, MBIA's capital base will rise to more than $650 million and policyholders' reserves will be approximately $1.5 billion. As of June 30, MBIA's capital base was $565 million and policyholder reserves were $1.2 billion.
The transaction will reduce the number of municipal bond insurance companies to three. The remaining companies will be the Ambac Indemnity Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Citicorp, and the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (98%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); XRX (NYSE) (69%); AMBC (NASDAQ) (62%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (98%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (98%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MBIA INC (98%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (84%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (69%); XEROX CORP (69%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (69%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (62%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOND INVESTORS GUARANTY INSURANCE CO; MBIA INC

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); REINSURANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); APPROVALS (65%); EXECUTIVES (52%); 



100 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up in Quiet Trading Despite Central Bank Sales

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose in quiet trading yesterday, resisting continued selling by central banks. Gold prices were mixed. ''Trading was dominated by profit taking, with central bank intervention less effective,'' said Ronald Holzer, a currency broker with the Harris Trust and Savings Bank. 
The Federal Reserve and foreign central banks continued for the second consecutive week to sell dollars in a concerted effort to push the dollar lower.
Last week, the dollar lost more than 4 percent of its value against the West German mark and the yen. The action followed a recent agreement by the Group of Seven industrialized democracies that the dollar's recent rise was inconsistent with longer-run economic fundamentals.
The seven nations in the group are the United States, Britain, Japan, France, West Germany, Italy and Canada.
 
Intervention Challenged
Currency analysts said many traders remained bullish and repeatedly challenged the intervention.
''The underlying pro-dollar sentiment was coming back out of the closet, and every time it came out the Fed came in and intervened along with other central banks,'' said Robert A. Feldman, a vice president of Salomon Brothers.
In New York, the dollar traded at 139.70 yen, up from 139. The pound fell to $1.6135, from $1.6195 on Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.8795 West German marks, up from 1.8720; 1.6285 Swiss francs, up from 1.6220; 1.1782 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1770; 6.3745 French francs, up from 6.3500, and 1,3740 Italian lire, up from 1,365.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery closed at $367.60 an ounce, up from $367.20 on Friday. Later, the Republic National Bank of New York said gold was bid at $366.10 an ounce, down from $366.25 on Friday. In trading on the Comex, silver bullion for current delivery fell to $5.22, from $5.226 on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (91%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CENTRAL BANKS (94%); CURRENCIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GERMAN MARK (77%); BRITISH POUND (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (63%); 



101 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Mideast Peace: Bridge vs. Wedge

BYLINE: By Stephen P. Cohen; Stephen P. Cohen is director of the Institute for Middle East Peace Development, a public policy organization.

DATELINE: MONTREAL

 BODY:
Strange how in the Middle East making peace looks so similar to waging political war.
Both sides in the peace process are using that process to drive wedges among their enemies. If they are not stopped - indeed, if bridges are not built precisely where they now seek to divide - real peace will be impossible. Yesterday, President Bush privately supported President Hosni Mubarak in his efforts to build those bridges. The Administration's polite words may yet prove too subtle to convince those who pursue political war vigorously and the peace process passively. 
In conflicts as long-lasting as those between Israelis and Palestinians, and Israelis and Arabs, the search for peace does not simply replace the pursuit of the conflict; rather, political victory remains even more vital than the goal of reconciliation.
Thus, the peace process is being carried on for the secondary tactical benefits of weakening the enemy, as well as with the hope that it might bring peace. The parties are maneuvering to weaken the resolve of their adversary and undermine its base of domestic solidarity and international support.
Israeli moves are dictated in significant measure by the desire to drive three wedges through the Palestinian camp.
First, they wish to open the gap between Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza and those outside the occupied territories. They're doing so by by blocking any form of Palestianian representation from outside the territories. They especially want to divide the nascent leadership of the uprising from the leaders of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
Second, they wish to exacerbate tensions between the Palestinians and their moderate Arab allies by exposing Palestinian unwillingness to board the peace train without knowing whether the final destination includes a state, even if the engineer is an Arab leader like Mr. Mubarak. Many Israelis look to arouse friction between the P.L.O. and its leadership in Egypt, Jordan and, if possible, elsewhere in the Arab world.
Third, Israelis would like to see the new communication between the U.S. and the P.L.O. cease or become strained, and are trying to break the link by pushing the P.L.O. to harsh criticism of U.S. peace diplomacy.
The Palestinians seek to drive wedges among Israelis and Israeli backers. Their first target is the fractious Israeli political system. Likud and Labor cannot agree on whether to cede territory, yet the Palestinians insist on just such a decision now.
Second, they wish to create a strain in the relations between Israel and American Jews. Third - and often the Palestinians' fondest hope - they want to create distance beween Israeli and American positions by exposing how little Israel will try to implement even its own initiatives, thus embarrassing the U.S. for its support for the Israeli election plan approved by the Cabinet on May 14.
These tactical attempts to wage political war through the peace process would not be so important if they were not built on real cleavages. There are, after all, real differences of interest and perspective, especially in the short run, between Palestinians under occupation and those who live under various Arab regimes.
Too, Arab moderates have been sorely tested by P.L.O. machinations, indecision and violence, and have cast more than a wary eye at their own Palestinian population. Also, there are substantial religious and ethnic cleavages in the Israeli political system that are given intense expression in Israel's democracy.
And, over the last years, there have been tensions between Jews in America and in Israel over Jewish issues, and over the intifada and its consequences.
These all are real wounds that some want to pour salt on and see fester. It is these wounds, however, that must be healed while the peace process moves forward, and for it to move forward. Neither Israelis nor Palestinians will sacrifice their basic national solidarity, and their political, economic and cultural support systems for vague hopes. On the contrary, both expect the dividend of peace to be found in the strengthening of their national cohesion and the reinforcement of their position among their friends and throughout the international community.
The mediator's task is to build bridges precisely where enemies try to create or inflame divisions. Both indigenous third parties, like Egypt, and external ones, like the U.S., must not only avoid the temptation of driving wedges but must subtly use the fear of these wedges to help the parties build bridges between themselves.
President Mubarak, both through his dialogue proposal and in recent discussions with the Israeli Defense Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, has been designing a process that builds bridges.
The interests of West Bankers, East Jerusalemites and Gazans must be given greater weight in Palestinian decision-making, and the Israeli election plan, as interpreted by Mr. Mubarak's 10 points of clarification of the Israeli plan, would do that.
The proposal also takes account of the profound revulsion of many Israelis toward talking with the P.L.O. by denying it dominance and prominence in the peace process. Yet the dialogue idea respects the integrity of the Palestinian people by including a small number of those living presently outside the territories together in a delegation made primarily from those inside.
Egypt is dealing with the P.L.O. as an organization so that Israel will have to deal only with the Palestinians as a people. The Palestinians will get the opportunity to represent themselves directly in official dialogue with the Israeli Government under Egyptian auspices, but only as long as they put their ideas forward and keep their organization in the background.
The Mubarak plan also allows the Likud-Labor coalition to maintain the Israeli refusal to deal with the P.L.O., by creating the first legitimate representative of the Palestinian people that does not formally assert the P.L.O. imprimatur.
Nonetheless, peace is possible only if Israel does not insist on dividing the Palestinian people, inside and outside the territories, and, only if the Palestinians can respect Israeli divisions and not try to exploit and intensify Israeli fears. Egypt and the U.S. must build the bridges with much energy, perseverance and boldness equal to that of those who drive the wedges.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (95%); EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); JORDAN (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (54%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF; ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS PEACE PROCESS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (69%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: COHEN, STEPHEN P STEVE COHEN (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (56%); 



102 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: NORIEGA OFFICERS TRY COUP AND FAIL; U.S. KNEW OF PLOT

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Dissident Panamanian officers tried to overthrow Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega today but failed when troops loyal to the Panamanian leader recaptured a central military headquarters the rebels had seized.
In a day of heavy fighting in the Panamanian capital, the rebels also managed to briefly seize control of the national radio and television, but did not expand their control much beyond military headquarters, according to officials here and reports from Panama City.
After a day of reports that General Noriega had been deposed, wounded and captured, the general appeared on television at the end of the day and said the coup had been crushed. He added: ''The incident this morning corresponds to the permanent aggression and penetration by the forces of the United States against the tranquillity of our country.''
 
Setback for Anti-Noriega Effort
President Bush denied accusations by Noriega loyalists that the United States engineered the rebellion, the second attempt in 18 months by dissident members of the armed forces to remove the military leader. ''There were rumors around that this was some American operation and I can tell you that is not true,'' Mr. Bush said. 
But Administration officials said the United States had learned of the planned uprising in the last two days and had not tried to discourage it. One official said the United States had advance information about the coup from the dissident officers and that the United States, in what amounted to tacit approval of a rebellion, had agreed to take custody of General Noriega if the rebels captured him.
 
Day of Attack and Counterattack
Another official said that early today, before it became clear that General Noriega had not been captured, the United States had asked to have him turned over, and the rebels refused. [Page A11.] Tonight, a former Commerce Minister under General Noriega, Mario Rognoni, asserted in an American television interview that during the coup attempt, United States troops had blocked access roads to the capital in an effort to keep reinforcements from reaching loyalist troops.
Mr. Rognoni, appearing on the ABC News program ''Nightline,'' said that the Panamanian Government had photographic evidence, as well as witness testimony, that American troops had set up roadblocks in the early hours of the coup attempt, but had withdrawn them after radio reports suggested that General Noriega had been captured or wounded and that the uprising was a success.
There were also reports tonight from witnesses in the Panamanian capital that earlier in the day, American troops had briefly sealed off the Bridge of the Americas, the key link between Panama City and Panamanian military bases like Rio Hato, from where a large portion of the loyalist reinforcements were ultimately drawn.
There was no immediate response from the Pentagon to Mr. Rognoni's assertion.
In general, reports from Panama were sketchy late today. But news accounts,, the testimony of residents reached by telephone, and information from Administration officials formed the outlines of a day of attack and counterattack that produced heavy artillery, automatic-weapons and mortar fire. [In putting down the rebellion, about 65 rebels were said to have been detained, The Associated Press reported.] The failed coup was the latest setback to Administration efforts to remove General Noriega, who has survived economic sanctions imposed by Washington and defied demands by Latin American countries and the United States to install a democratically elected government.
For months, Mr. Bush has been openly urging the Panamanian Defense Forces, the country's military establishment, to overthrow General Noriega. Today, before news reached Washington that the coup had failed, Mr. Bush again seemed to be encouraging a military rebellion.
 
U.S. Troops on Alert
''I would repeat in the hopes that it be conveyed instantly to Panama: we have no argument with the Panamanian Defense Forces,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Our argument has been, as has many other countries, with Mr. Noriega, who aborted the democratic will of the people of Panama.''
Mr. Bush did not soften the stance he expressed in a stronger statement in May, when he told reporters that he ''would love to see them get him out.''
Throughout the day of fighting, American forces stationed in Panama were on the highest degree of noncombat alert. Some American soldiers took up positions about 600 yards from the military headquarters, between the fighting and American installations, but the rest were held at their bases, and the Americans did not move to support the rebellion, Administration officials said. Accounts from the scene of the fighting said that United States military helicopters hovered over the area.
There were no reliable reports about the extent of casualties. Witnesses quoted in news dispatches said ambulances were seen leaving the area of headquarters compound.
At one point, heavy smoke and flames came out of the fortified military compound, which is surrounded by the Chorrillo, a densely populated slum on the banks of the Panama Canal that forms the bulk of the downtown area.
The coup attempt began at 7 A.M., when about 200 to 300 soldiers seized control of the headquarters, expecting to find General Noriega there, Administration officials said. Some of the rebellious forces were already inside the compound, they said, and others stormed the building.
At first, reports from the scene indicated that the rebellion had been successful. The dissident officers, having seized the broadcast facilities, issued a statement saying they had taken over the military command and were forcing General Noriega and several other top officers into retirement. Others named with General Noriega were the chief of the joint military staff, Col. Marco Justines, and the head of the secret police, Col. Julio Ow Young.
 
'We Heard Shooting and Fighting'
''This is strictly a military movement; there is no politics involved,'' said the rebel statement, which was signed by Maj. Moises Giraldi Vega, commander of the Urraca battalion, which is stationed in the military headquarters.
Major Giraldi helped General Noriega crush a coup attempt in March 1988 and is reported to have personally led the detachment that arrested its leader, Col. Leonidas Macias, the Chief of Police.
The statement, broadcast at 11:30 A.M., said Major Giraldi was supported by at least three key young officers, including Capt. Javier Licona, commander of the Panamanian cavalry, Capt. Jesus Balma, chief of the special forces, and Capt. Edgardo Sandoval, chief of the company charged with maintaining public order.
''We heard shooting and fighting in the streets, tanks and bombs and mortars exploding,'' said a resident of Panama City who was reached by telephone and who asked not to be identified by name. ''Suddenly, on three radio stations and one television channel, we heard the communique and then just as suddenly, all of the broadcasts were cut off and the shooting started again,'' she said.
By early afternoon, General Noriega's forces, many of whom had been out of the city on an exercise, were laying siege to the military command post. Loyal soldiers climbed onto the roofs of surrounding buildings, throwing hand grenades, firing mortars and shooting at the compound, according to news reports from Panama.
About an hour after the first statement from the rebels, Panamanian television's Channel 2, controlled by General Noriega, carried a bizarre broadcast showing a clock on a wall while the voice of a man identifying himself as Lieut. Col. Arnulfo Castrejon, an aide to General Noriega, said the rebellious officers ''are penetrated by the U.S. and sell themselves for a few dollars more.''
 
Noriega's Location Unclear
The state radio also was retaken by the Noriega forces and Maj. Edgardo Lopez Grimaldo, the general's spokesman, broadcast an appeal for the country not to support the uprising.
Gradually, the fighting subsided, and it became apparent that General Noriega was in control. The Government later declared an overnight curfew.
Administration officials said American intelligence indicated that General Noriega was at the headquarters on Monday. But one official said the general customarily changed his location at night and it was not clear whether he was there when the rebellion began.
An official said the United States sent word to the rebellious officers that Washington would like to take General Noriega into custody. The military leader was indicted on drug-related charges in February 1988 by two Federal grand juries in Florida.
''The rebels said they were not willing to give him up,'' the official said.

GRAPHIC: photo of troops riding toward the Defense Force headquarters in an attempted coup (Agence France-Presse); map of Panama City (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (98%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES COUPS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); EVIDENCE (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); WITNESSES (75%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



103 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Once Again, A Survivor;
Ruthlessness Keeps Noriega in Command

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Over the last two years, two American Administrations have elevated the leader of Panama, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, to the top of the list of world figures they wanted to see removed from action. Only Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya came as close to getting under Washington's political skin.
As described by the Reagan and Bush Administrations, General Noriega stood for everything repugnant in a political leader. He was accused of taking part in election fraud, drug trafficking, money laundering, espionage against the United States and even murder. 
But General Noriega has survived Washington's intense economic pressure and diplomatic censure, resisted pleas that he give up power, sneered at threats of military intervention and defied indictments on drug-trafficking charges in American courts.
 
A Basic History Lesson
In part, he has been able to stay in power because, despite much anti-Noriega language, Washington was reluctant to take the kind of brutal military action that would have overthrown him.
General Noriega left the Reagan Administration twisting in the wind last year when he abruptly changed his mind after hinting that he would accept a deal to leave the country - along with his millions - if he was not prosecuted in American courts.
Instead, he dug in his heels and taught the world a basic history lesson: that a seemingly insignificant dictator can sometimes thwart the efforts of the rest of the world to get rid of him if those efforts are made without any meaningful pressure behind them.
When dissident officers seized the country's military headquarters today and claimed to have toppled their Commander in Chief, there was a brief hope in Washington that perhaps General Noriega had finally been ousted.
But the general, who has ruled Panama since 1983 largely through intimidation, has crushed a coup attempt by his own troops before, and today was apparently no different.
 
Genghis Khan as Mentor
In a little-known manual on psychological warfare written in 1975 when he was a lieutenant colonel in charge of Panama's military intelligence, General Noriega revealed the political philosophy that has served him over the years: use ''astuteness before threats or violence,'' but be prepared to ''exterminate'' enemies in a ''cold and calculating'' way whenever necessary. In that book, the lieutenant colonel said his spiritual mentor was Genghis Khan.
Already officials in his Government have attributed the coup attempt today to American meddling, and if history is any guide, General Noriega will do what he did after a much less serious uprising in March 1988: move ruthlessly against those officers who betrayed him. Shortly after that coup attempt, General Noriega articulated that theory, saying, ''Virility is proved by remaining in power.''
General Noriega's 1952 high school yearbook noted that his goal in life was to become either a psychiatrist or President. Instead, he used a combination of guile and political shrewdness to pull himself out of a poor Panama City barrio and up the military ranks.
Trained by the United States military at the School of the Americas and serving as the head of army intelligence for more than a decade, he simultaneously cultivated relationships with the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and Colombian drug cartel leaders, with Israel, Libya and Nicaragua.
 
Lucrative Sidelines
Last year, as part of a campaign of ''psychological warfare'' against George Bush during the American Presidential race, General Noriega spread the word that he had ''something on Bush'' that would prevent the United States from moving against him, perhaps nothing more than a bit of disinformation at the time, but one that disheartened the opposition at home.
As early as the 1950's, Panama's military was involved in corrupt activities, in part because of its control of prostitution and gambling, which have long been legal in Panama. Over the years, General Noriega expanded those practices while also consolidating control over the air force, navy and police and strengthening the feared anti-riot force known as the Dobermans.
He essentially took over the country's traffic, customs, immigration and airport operations, and helped set up other private interests under military control. These proved to be lucrative sinecures for senior military officers under his command.
Few Panamanians were surprised when General Noriega engineered a fraudulent election in May and then sent paramilitary forces into the streets of Panama City to beat up opposition candidates. Already in 1984 he had rigged the presidential vote in favor of a candidate he assumed he could control. When that did not work out, the President was ousted.
 
Turning a Blind Eye
The United States was willing to turn a blind eye to General Noriega's excesses, largely because of his cooperation on matters of intelligence and combating drug trafficking . In 1985, when Dr. Hugo Spadafora was killed after he publicly accused General Noriega of drug trafficking, United States policy remained unchanged, despite reports by American intelligence that connected the slaying to Panama's Defense Forces.
The current crisis dates from the summer of 1987, when Col. Roberto Diaz Herrera, who had been dismissed as General Noriega's second-in-command, detailed the 1984 vote fraud and accused the general of drug-trafficking.
After violent street demonstrations, General Noriega declared a state of emergency, suspended the Constitution, banned public demonstrations, closed newspapers and radio stations and detained or drove into exile opposition leaders. The United States began to hint that Panama would be better off without its leader, a campaign that accelerated after General Noriega was indicted by two Federal grand juries.
But thus far he has shown no willingness to end the two-year crisis that has gripped his country.
''Today's mutiny was by far the most serious challenge to his rule,'' a senior Latin American diplomat said. ''And each time there is a disruption, it gets more expensive for him. But he's a street fighter, cunning and clever. He always has been, and he seems to have won this round.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PANAMA (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COUPS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); MURDER (76%); ESPIONAGE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); SCIOLINO, ELAINE RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



104 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN-U.S. PACT REACHED ON TRADE AND INVESTMENTS

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
In the latest sign of closer ties between the United States and Mexico, Presidents Bush and Carlos Salinas de Gortari signed an agreement today intended to enlarge trade and investment between the two nations.
The accord, the highlight of a five-day visit here by Mr. Salinas, is the broadest economic agreement ever reached by the two countries.
At a White House ceremony, President Bush spoke of benefits for ''both sides of our border'' and Mr. Salinas said the initiative ''opens up additional sources of employment in Mexico for Mexicans.''
 
'Concrete Results' Cited
Mr. Salinas, who arrived in the United States on Sunday for his second visit since he took office in December, said the trade accord and an environmental agreement signed during the same ceremony showed that the two countries' friendship ''leads to concrete results.'' 
The environmental accord calls for the Governments to deal with air and other pollution problems in Mexico City and in urban areas at the border.
Mexico is the third-largest market for American goods, after Canada and Japan, while Mexico sends about three-quarters of its exports to the United States. Trade between the two countries totaled $44 billion last year.
 
Rebuffed Until Recently
For years the United States had sought closer trade and consultative links with Mexico, but until recently had been rebuffed by Mexico's political leadership, which was entrenched in policies of trade nationalism.
Under President Salinas and his predecessor, Miguel de la Madrid, Mexico slowly began developing policies of greater openness in trade and investment. Mr. Salinas, who has a doctorate in political economy from Harvard, served as the minister of budget and planning in the de la Madrid administration.
The first sign of the shift was Mexico's signature in August 1986 on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the world's free-trade charter, to which nearly 100 other nations subscribe. Since then Mexico has announced a number of measures to cut tariffs and to dismantle other trade controls. Earlier this year, it removed large parts of foreign investment from official oversight by declaring that acquisitions under $100 million would not need preliminary approval.
Under the new trade and investment agreement, Mexico and the United States are to decide by November on specific industrial sectors that could benefit from lower tariffs. These might include autos and auto parts, telecommunications, petrochemicals, computers and related equipment and processed foods, an American official said.
By July, negotiators are to complete a first round of talks on such provisions.
 
Beneficiary of Brady Plan
In the American view, Mexico is not only more cooperative in trade matters, it is also a model of how a developing country can through market-oriented policies begin to ease its foreign debt burden.
Its programs to convert state-owned companies to private ownership and its deregulatory policies and lower tariffs have made it a principal beneficiary of a debt-slashing plan put forward by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady.
''I look forward to continued progress and additional proof of how Mexico and the United States can work together toward common ends, toward positive results,'' Mr. Bush told his guest today. On Sunday, Mr. Salinas was his guest at an informal dinner at Camp David.
 
No Free-Trade Pact Seen
Still, American officials said they did not expect the trade agreement, formally known as the Understanding Between the Government of the United Mexican States and the Government of the United States of America Regarding Trade and Investment Facilitation Talks, to produce anything so far reaching as the free-trade agreement with Canada signed last year.
''What we have is a series of negotiations in specific product sectors, which, of course, could develop their own momentum, but any free-trade agreement between the two countries is a long way off, if ever,'' an Administration trade official commented.
A free-trade agreement might well arouse more opposition in both countries than the accord with Canada. In Mexico distrust of the United States has been pronounced over the years, and American labor and business are both sensitive to competition arising from cheap Mexican labor.
 
A 'Significant Evolution'
Nevertheless, today's agreement, which broadens a 1987 accord providing for consultative talks on trade disputes, is a ''significant evolution'' in the two countries' trading relationship, American officials said.
The Governments also reached agreements today on steel and textiles and declared that their negotiators had found ''an improved and constructive atmosphere on matters concerning the protection of intellectual property rights to promote technological innovation and investment in Mexico.'' Protection for patents, copyrights and other intellectual property in Mexico has been a matter of dispute between the two nations for many years.
On steel, Mexico signed an agreement to limit its shipments to the United States at an undisclosed level over the next two and a half years and to work toward eliminating trade-distorting practices in the sector.
Mexico is one of 29 countries that have reached new restraint agreements with the United States. Although no specifics of the Mexican pact were available, it was expected that Mexico would be permitted to ship more steel here than it has under its past quotas.
On textiles, the United States committed itself to ''review and improve'' an import restraint agreement by the two nations. According to a joint communique, the textile agreement provides for ''continued expansion of trade in textiles and apparel in an orderly and nondisruptive manner.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; MEXICO CITY (MEX)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TEXTILES; STEEL AND IRON; AIR POLLUTION; ENVIRONMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); EXTERNAL DEBT (60%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); PETROCHEMICALS (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



105 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
Rebels attempted a coup in Panama but failed when troops loyal to General Noriega recaptured a central military headquarters that the rebels had seized. Page A1

 
News analysis: General Noriega has been able to survive economic pressure because of his ruthless use of power and Washington's reluctance to take military action. A1

 
Strife within military is termed a major cause to fighting A11

U.S. has some warning that the coup would be attempted A11

At U.N., Panama's President says U.S. fostered coup A11

 
East Germany closed its borders in an attempt to stop an exodus of its citizens that had turned chaotic. It allowed those refugees already in Czechoslovakia to head west. A1 
 
 
U.S. tells East Germany to change or lose its citizens A13

Leaving a land of shortages, but also friends and relatives A12

Godollo journal: Active U.S. Ambassador charms Hungary A4

 
The U.S. and Mexico signed a pact aimed at enlarging trade and investment. They also agreed to tackle pollution problems in Mexico City and in cities along the border. A1

 
European officials urged TV stations there to devote a majority of their air time to shows from Europe. The call was made in nonbinding rules. U.S. officials criticized the plan. A1

 
The Soviet Legislature backed a ban on strikes in important industries. It also took the first steps toward the approval of a more sweeping law regulating labor disputes. A15

 
Shevardnadze backs Soviet goals A7

 
The C.I.A. will not use secret moves to influence the outcome of the Nicaraguan elections scheduled for February, the Administration said. A9

 
Israel sentenced Abie Nathan, one of the nation's best-known peace campaigners, to six months in prison for meeting with Yasir Arafat. A3

 
Palestinian militants urge wider revolt A3

 
The White House urged Pretoria to begin dismantling apartheid swiftly, saying that economic sanctions had helped prompt ''new thinking'' in Pretoria's power structure. A5

 
NATIONAL A18-26, B24
 
Senators began changing a drug plan proposed by President Bush. They adopted a proposal to hire 1,000 new F.B.I. agents, 350 narcotic agents and 300 assistant U.S. attorneys. A1

 
A Democratic plan to restore I.R.A.'s for many taxpayers was agreed upon by a Senate panel. It also backed an increase in the amount Social Security recipients could earn without having their benefits reduced. D1

 
House prevents deletion of fairness rule from budget bill A20

 
Less prenatal care should be given to women whose fetuses show no risk of health problems, a panel said. It said more care should be given to women whose fetuses are at risk. A1

 
A Nobel laureate in a controversy over questions of possible fraud in a research paper has been offered the presidency of Rockefeller University. He is Dr. David Baltimore. A18

 
Secretary Kemp unveiled proposals intended to ''clear the decks'' at his shaken department by eliminating almost all discretionary money in Federal housing programs. A20

 
Inspectors at three agencies tell panel of lax management A21

 
Abortion has divided Pennsylvania, polls say, but Pennsylvanians view anti-abortion advocates more favorably than do people nationwide. B24

 
Workers voted to strike Boeing at midnight, rejecting a wage offer at least as good as many unions have accepted this year. Boeing is the nation's biggest single exporter. A18

 
In a $50 million libel suit against the journalist Seymour Hersh, a jury will decide if Mr. Hersh libeled a former Indian Prime Minister by describing him as a paid C.I.A. informant. A19

 
Jim Bakker was called a con man by prosecutors and a victim by the defense in closing arguments at his trial in Charlotte, N.C. A26

 
F.D.A. approves a backup therapy for severe schizophrenia A24

Northern Maine journal: moose call of Canada angers hunters A18

Shellfish harvesting is halted along coast hit by hurricane A18

 
REGIONAL B1-7
 
To prevent AIDS in sperm banks, New York will require donors to undergo at least two AIDS tests and will forbid men who have had homosexual sex since 1977 from donating. A1

 
Four hospitals broke ranks with industry negotiators in New York City and signed union agreements, avoiding a strike set for 5:00 A.M. today, officials in the negotiations said. B1

 
Hospital worker puts ''everything on hold'' B2

 
Two new landmarks were designated in New York City. They are the Seagram Building on Park Avenue and the Four Seasons restaurant. B1

 
Rudolph Giuliani's fund-raising has benefited from a process known as bundling, which is legally used to get around limits on individual contributions. David Dankins has used the process to a lesser extent. B1

 
Giuliani's wife walks a delicate line in campaign B7

 
James Florio's style is improving in the New Jersey race for governor. Once derided as stiff, the Democratic candidate has acquired fluid ease and growing self-confidence. B1

 
Raritan Valley a prime battleground in Assembly campaign B5

 
William Hurt won an alimony suit. A Manhattan judge ruled that Sandra Jennings was never his common-law wife, meaning that she is not entitled to a share of the actor's income. B3

 
New York City police spokeswoman to be top deputy B3

Minority students walk out over a teacher's remarks B3

Ex-Biaggi aide is U.S. witness in Garcia trial B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (93%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); COUPS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); REFUGEES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PRISONS (68%); APPROVALS (66%); SENTENCING (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



106 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Militants Urge Wider Revolt

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 3

 BODY:
The underground leadership of the Palestinian revolt in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip sought today to broaden the protest, calling for a five-day general strike and ''rebellion'' in the streets.
Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip said they believed the call to intensified activity reflected growing frustration with the slow pace of peace efforts.
The appeal was designed to inject urgency into diplomatic efforts under way between Egypt, Israel and the United States to unlock the stalemated diplomatic process, the Palestinians said, requesting anonymity.
Shortly after the leaflet was distributed in the territories, the Israeli authorities took the unusual step of closing off an entire section of East Jerusalem to prevent Palestinian leaders from holding a news conference. 
 
Closed Military Area
Streets around the National Palace Hotel were declared a closed military area. Such action is frequently taken in the occupied territories at scenes of unrest where reporters are present, but are rare in the city.
Faisal el-Husseini, a Palestinian nationalist who was to appear at the news conference, spoke to reporters at a police barricade before members of the paramilitary border police threatened to break up the gathering.
''What you are seeing now is the signs of the beginning of the end of the occupation,'' he said.
The new appeals in the uprising were made in one of the leaflets the shadowy leadership frequently distributes in the occupied territories. It followed a tightening of Israeli efforts to impose economic constraints on the revolt, now in its 22d month.
 
Resistance Is Urged
The leaflet called on the territories' 1.75 million inhabitants to resist what it called new Israeli attempts to divide them.
''On strike days, people should go out after 5 P.M. to the streets and start a rebellion,'' it said, without making clear how Palestinians should intensify their rebellion, fought thus far largely with rocks and gasoline bombs. Campaigners said they did not believe it implied a switch to armed protest.
The leaflet urged Palestinians to stay away from jobs in Israel and close businesses in the occupied territories on Thursday, Friday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday.
President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt met in Washington with President Bush on Monday, and Israel's inner Cabinet of senior ministers is to meet on Thursday to discuss the Egyptian proposals and other peace efforts.
 
Proposals From Egypt
In response to an Israeli plan to hold elections among Palestinians in the occupied territories to choose negotiators to discuss limited self-rule, Egypt has offered 10 proposals. Cairo has also proposed direct Palestinian-Israeli discussions, but the debate has reached stalemate largely because of two key questions: whether Israel will accept a negotiation that involves the P.L.O., however indirectly; and whether Israel is ready for a negotiation that could lead to exchanging land for peace.
Palestinians have also expressed strong reservations about the Egyptian initiative because it mentions neither the P.L.O. nor Palestinian statehood. In the West Bank, Palestinians said the new leaflet may have been issued primarily at the behest of the P.L.O. outside the territories as the organization sought to strengthen its position in the current diplomacy.
Some West Bank Palestinians said they believed a secondary purpose of the new call to revolt was to demonstrate the leadership's continued influence.
In the West Bank town of Beit Sahur, the authorities have been locked in a battle of wills with residents over the nonpayment of taxes and have raided homes to confiscate goods instead of payments.
The authorities now plan to auction the Palestinians' belongings if they do not come forward and pay taxes.
In the Gaza Strip, where residents depend on jobs in Israel, the Israelis seem to have had some success in imposing their economic will with magnetic identity cards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES)

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; PALESTINIANS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); RIOTS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); STRIKES (68%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN HOSNI MUBARAK (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



107 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Godollo Journal;
How to Disarm Hungary (Hamburgers? Tennis?)

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GODOLLO, Hungary, Sept. 29

 BODY:
A large American flag covered a window by the entrance to the House of Culture in this college town 20 miles northeast of Budapest. Pinned to it was a photograph of a boyish-looking man with a bow tie, whose smile has become familiar throughout Hungary.
A notice under the portrait announced a meeting of the Godollo Opposition Club, which the man in the bow tie would address this evening. A Louis Armstrong tape resounded over the public-address system to make him feel at home. 
Not all the people milling about before the meeting were members of the opposition. ''Heaven forbid!'' Istvan Safrany said. ''We're Reds.''
''Speak for yourself,'' rebuked a man standing next to him. ''I'm no Communist. I prefer Mr. Palmer.''
 
Both Sides of the Street
But Ambassador Mark Palmer is popular not only with the opposition.
Mr. Safrany, too, said he preferred the American envoy. ''We expect more from that side,'' he said with nonideological pragmatism. ''Those over there fooled us.'' There was no doubt about which country he meant by the vague allusion.
It is difficult these days not to find Mr. Palmer somewhere in the public eye.
He has been observed marching with the opposition, taking to lunch at the local McDonald's the general secretary of the Communist Party, Karoly Grosz, and on another occasion his friend, the Soviet Ambassador, an event the Hungarian press christened ''the hamburger summit.''
''There may be different views about what is diplomacy,'' the 48-year-old Mr. Palmer said in a conversation in his office. ''Whether it's sitting behind the desk and going to cocktail parties or whether it's important to be visible, it's important to be the United States in another country, to speak out about our values and about the fate of the nation that you're sent to.''
 
Friends in the Party
Mr. Palmer, former speechwriter to Secretaries of State, Deputy Assistant Secretary for European Affairs and one of the department's specialists on Soviet-American relations, has left Hungarians in no doubt which school he adheres to. He had hoped to be named Assistant Secretary of State in the Bush Administration, but when he did not get that post, he returned here as enthusiastic as ever for his job.
And at a time of transition, when Hungary seeks to show in many ways that it wants no longer to be seen as a satellite in the Soviet orbit, when a whole nation appears to ''expect more from that side,'' the Ambassador's style is attuned to its policy.
''I think probably it's fair to say that next to the Soviet Ambassador I have the best contacts with the party leadership of anybody in this city,'' the Ambassador said. ''I'm very close to Pozsgay, I'm close to Nemeth, with Nyers I play tennis.''
Together with Mr. Grosz, the three men constitute the party's Presidium. Imre Pozsgay is likely to be elected President of the republic before the year is out, Miklos Nemeth is Prime Minister, and Rezso Nyers presides over the Presidium.
 
The No. 2 Ambassador
''I've worked hard with him also,'' Mr. Palmer said of his Soviet colleague, Boris I. Stukalin. ''When I called on him initially I said to him: 'You know you're the most important ambassador in this city, but I'm the second-most important ambassador. We can either fight or work together.' So we have a good, strong relationship. He does occasionally joke with me about how active I am.''
The Ambassador emphasized the view that the United States had no interest in creating problems between Hungary and the Soviet Union or ''to push them out of the Warsaw Pact.''
Mr. Palmer is aware that he works close to the line that separates active diplomacy from interference. Asked about it in a lively question session after his speech here, he replied, to roars of laughter followed by applause from the standing-room-only audience, ''Other ambassadors had much more involvement with Hungarian politics before.''
In his office, Mr. Palmer noted that he had associated openly with the opposition since he arrived in 1986. Dissidents in those days lived on the margin of society.
 
An Opening Gesture
''The very first thing I did was to invite Janos Kis and Laszlo Rajk, two very visible figures of the democratic movement, for dinner in the Gellert Hotel dining room,'' Mr. Palmer recalled. ''I wanted to announce that this was my greeting card, my way of arriving in Hungary.''
The Ambassador said that he avoided endorsing any single group and met with all. But, he said, ''I have tried to show in a variety of ways that Americans side with the democratic forces in this country.''
''I'm open about supporting the opposition parties, including getting money for them from the National Endowment for Democracy,'' he continued. ''I think we should be proud of it.''
He said that marching in the opposition demonstration on March 15, the anniversary of the 1848 uprising suppressed by Austria and Russia, was his high point.
 
A Nutritionist at His Side
While preaching democracy in politics, Mr. Palmer has been equally outspoken in praising free enterprise and urging the privatization of Hungary's economy. He said he considered his active role in creating an American-style management training institute his second most important achievement.
The Ambassador is joined in achievement by his wife, Dr. Sushma Palmer. She spent a sabbatical year here from her directorship of the food and nutrition board of the National Academy of Sciences instructing postgraduate physicians in Budapest in her specialty, the relationship between nutrition and cancer, heart illness and chronic diseases. She has just returned here and is working on several projects.
Among those in the opposition club office in the House of Culture, enthusiasm was high over Mr. Palmer's coming. They said they had no plan to invite other ambassadors. So why Mr. Palmer?
''Oh, everybody knows him,'' a man replied. ''On March 15 he paraded with the opposition. A very good thing.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Mark Palmer (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HUNGARY (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: PALMER, MARK (AMB); KAMM, HENRY



108 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET AIM UPHELD BY SHEVARDNADZE

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

 BODY:
Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze ended his annual trip to the United Nations General Assembly yesterday and flew off to visit Nicaragua. And he left Americans to ponder a history lesson.
Addressing the American Foreign Policy Institute in midtown Manhattan on Monday night, Mr. Shevardnadze acknowledged that his country's economic troubles are worsening as perestroika takes hold. But he said the Soviet Union's difficulties resemble those that the United States experienced in the Depression, when ''a powerful and confident state took an economic nose dive.'' 
''There were bread lines in New York's Times Square and the tents of the jobless huddled along Riverside Drive,'' Mr. Shevardnadze said. By 1931 more than 100,000 Americans had applied to emigrate to the Soviet Union in search of work.
Many people, the Soviet official went on, drew the false conclusion that capitalism was finished and the world stood on the brink of revolution. The unspoken implication was obvious: don't assume that the Soviet Union's present troubles mark the end of Communism.
''I'm sure that in a few years from now, recalling perestroika's arduous path, people will be saying that 'toward the end of 1989 serious misgivings arose about its future,' '' he said, adding that he would return in three years to explain how the Soviets overcame them.
''So long as there is the will, the understanding of the situation and the determination to change things for the better - and we certainly have them -the economy can remedy its ills,'' Mr. Shevardnadze said.
A lasting consequence of this failure to understand the Depression, he went on, was the belief that World War II rescued America from revolution and that capitalism ''could only prolong its existence through militarization.''
This, in turn, encouraged the Soviet Union to arm itself against an expansionist West, which then concluded that ''Communism could only survive through militarization and aggression.'' The result, he said, was the arms race and the cold war.
 
Arrives in Nicaragua
MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Oct. 3 (Special to The New York Times) - Mr. Shevardnadze arrived here today for a one-day working visit in which he is widely expected to negotiate new reductions in Soviet assistance to the Sandinista Government.
Mr. Shevardnadze, the highest-ranking Soviet official to visit Nicaragua in the 10 years of Sandinista rule, was met at the Managua airport by President Daniel Ortega Saavedra, and laid a wreath at the tomb of Carlos Fonseca Amador, a Sandinista martyr, before beginning an intense schedule.
On his brief stay, Mr. Shevardnadze has planned three lengthy working sessions with Mr. Ortega, as well as other meetings with the entire nine-member Sandinista National Directorate and the diplomatic corps.
Diplomats and Government officials said they expected Mr. Shevardnadze to cut Soviet aid to Nicaragua, in keeping with a general trend of cutbacks in Soviet aid commitments.
Western diplomats also said that they expected the Soviet and Nicaraguan officials to hold lengthy discussions on the flow of Soviet-bloc arms to Nicaragua. Soviet officials have told American leaders that they have halted their country's military aid to Nicaragua, which has in the past been estimated at as much as $5 million a year. But non-American diplomats said the flow of arms has continued through Cuba and other Soviet bloc countries.
In an internal study completed this year, the Sandinista Government reported that, after reaching a high of $1.04 billion in 1987, Soviet bloc donations and credits to Nicaragua, excluding military aid, fell to $266 million in 1987, and have continued to decline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NICARAGUA (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COLD WAR (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ARMS RACE (77%); WORLD WAR II (63%); 

PERSON: SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD (MIN)



109 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Created Coup Conditions, Panamanian Asserts at U.N.

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 3

 BODY:
The President of the Panamanian Government, who is loyal to General Manuel Antonio Noriega, blamed the United States today for creating conditions that led to the coup attempt in his country.
In an address to the United Nations General Assembly, the official, Francisco A. Rodriguez, said: ''The Government has had today to control a new attempt at subversion, frustrated by the will of our people and the armed forces.'' The mention of the coup came in a departure from the printed text of his speech, which was, like the other speeches at the General Assembly, a catalogue of the world's problems from his country's point of view. 
 
Comment by U.S. Ambassador
Immediately after Mr. Rodriguez spoke, the United States representative, Thomas R. Pickering, said the United States understands ''the frustrations of the Panama Defense Forces that apparently caused them to take action today against Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega.'' ''We believe the Panamanian military has seen the limitations for the future of Panama as long as General Noriega is in control,'' he said, and described the appearance of Mr. Rodriguez at the General Assembly as ''a jolting reminder to the international community of the election stolen from the Panama people last May.''
After Mr. Rodriguez was sworn in on Sept. 1, President Bush said the United States would have no diplomatic contact with him.
Mr. Rodriguez's address today was unusual because it occurred as delegates were avidly following news reports of the coup attempt from Panama City. But he was able to speak because no delegation challenged his claim to represent Panama.
Mr. Rodriguez denounced the United States, asserting it was violating the Panama Canal Treaty and seeking to overthrow his Government through economic sanctions and other forms of pressure.
''Panama is today living evidence that the Government of the United States means to impose on Latin America and the Caribbean a new model of colonialism by establishing weak and dependent governments, coerced by economic crisis and provoked by financial terrorism,'' he said.
The Panamanian Government was also attacked at the session today by President Oscar Arias Sanchez of Costa Rica. Mr. Arias called Panama's Government ''an authoritarian regime,'' and he said that in Panama, ''the path of oppression has also become the road to impoverishment.''
 
Panamanians Demonstrate
Outside the United Nations, meanwhile, about 20 Panamanians protested against General Noriega and Mr. Rodriguez and hailed ''the legitimate leaders'' of Panama, the opposition presidential candidate Guillermo Endara and his chief running mate, Guillermo (Billy) Ford.
Other speakers who addressed the General Assembly today were Foreign Ministers Luis Barrios Tassano of Uruguay; Farouk al-Sharaa of Syria; Petar Mladenov of Bulgaria; Abdelhamid Escheikh of Tunisia; Mesut Yilmaz of Turkey; Tserenpiliin Gombosuren of Mongolia; Hernan Felipe Errazuriz of Chile; Pascoal Manuel Mocumbi of Mozambique and Dawa Tsering of Bhutan and Deputy Foreign Minister Soubanh Srithirath of Laos.

GRAPHIC: photo of President Francisco A. Rodriguez of Panama (NYT/Marilynn K. Yee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); URUGUAY (79%); BULGARIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); TURKEY (79%); CHILE (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES COUPS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); TERRORISM (61%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); RODRIGUEZ, FRANCISCO A (PRES); LEWIS, PAUL GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



110 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Struggle Within the Military Appears to Be a Major Cause

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT

 BODY:
A bitter power struggle between rebellious junior officers and older members of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega's inner circle appears to have been a major catalyst in the fighting that erupted in Panama yesterday, experts on Panamanian military affairs say.
''The sense all around is that this was something led by the middle-level ranks, that it was a battle between the old guys and the enlisted personnel,'' said Mercedes K. Morris, a spokeswoman for the United States Southern Command in Panama.
The apparent leader of the revolt, Maj. Moises Giraldi Vega, is a middle-level officer who commands the Urraca battalion, a crack unit known for its role in crushing an attempted coup against General Noriega last year.
The battalion is in charge of security at Panamanian military headquarters in the capital, the scene of the abortive coup in March 1988 as well as of yesterday's fighting. 
''These guys are very junior - a major, a few captains,'' said Prof. Richard Millett, a lecturer in Latin American studies at the University of Southern Illinois in Edwardsville, Ill.
Professor Millett and others said that many junior officers have become increasingly restive in recent months, with Panama's economy reeling and their own positions in the military hierarchy increasingly unclear because of the determination of General Noriega and his top commanders to hang on to power at any cost.
''One thing we've got to remember is that these officers have all got extended families, and they're all hurting bad because the economy is collapsing,'' the professor said.
A communique, broadcast shortly before loyalist troops began a furious counterattack in the Panamanian capital, described the rebellion as ''an internal coup'' whose chief aim was ending corruption in the military, a goal it said would be furthered by the forcible retirement of the general and his aides.
The general and his inner circle, the communique said, were violating Panamanian law by remaining in the military beyond a 20-year limit.
Although the communique called for new elections, it did not ask for popular support. Nor did it mention the possibility of ending military control of the country or of repealing any of the repressive decrees promulgated under General Noriega.
The communique was broadcast over Exitosa, a Government radio station, and Channel 4, an official television station. It said the revolt was an internal Panamanian matter and had no United States connection.
''This appears to have been entirely a barracks movement, without any civilian politicking,'' said Richard Koster, a longtime resident of Panama whose home is some five miles from the scene of the fighting yesterday. ''They said nothing about restoring democracy, nothing about human rights. What they clearly meant to do was replace one military group with another group.''
The leadership of the uprising ''cuts across several different units, including the Panamanian special forces, which is a small but very good unit,'' Professor Millett said. At least three captains appear to have helped lead the uprising, including the special forces commander, Capt. Jesus Balma, and Capt. Javier Licona of the cavalry. The objects of their revolt, besides General Noriega, included Colonels Marco Justines, Angel Mina, Julio Ow Young and Lorenzo Purcell, all top commanders close to the general who are widely believed to have close ties to Colombian drug traffickers.
The counterattack against the rebels appears to have been led by a combat unit known as Battalion 2000 and other troops that were rushed to the capital from Rio Hato, a nearby military base.
There were reports that the loyalist troops were also assisted by members of a militia known as the Dignity Brigades. The head of the Brigades, a civilian, is also president of the Panamanian electric workers' union, a pro-Government group. There were reports that the rebels lost their radio and television link to the public after the electrical workers were ordered to cut off the power to the two stations.
''My private opinion,'' a Panamanian analyst said, ''is that this uprising is a sign that the National Guard is finally beginning to break up from pressure on the institution from within. They're all trying to chew on a piece of the same cow.''
There was widespread agreement that the aftermath would include a major crackdown on the civilian opposition and a purge of the military.
Late last night, Panamanians reached by telephone said the streets of the capital were empty not only of troops, but of police, indicating that General Noriega had ordered the armed forces to remain in their barracks as a precaution.
''They normally do that - it happened last year after the coup attempt,'' he said. ''They need time to put everybody in one place until they decide who's reliable and who's not.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES COUPS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CORRUPTION (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (67%); FAMILY (66%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); GIRALDI VEGA, MOISES (MAJ); PITT, DAVID E



111 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tells East Germany: Reform or Lose Citizens

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
The Bush Administration publicly called on East Germany today to undertake political and economic reforms as a way to halt the flood of its citizens to the West.
At the same time, a senior Bush Administration official warned that if the East German Government does not liberalize its political system, the system might explode from within.
In a departure from the Administration's normally reserved approach to Eastern Europe, the State Department's spokesman declared today, ''We believe that in order to remove the conditions which caused so many people to flee to the West, the German Democratic Republic leadership should institute reforms which will lead to a political and economic system responsive to the population.''
 
Political Eruption Called Possible
Alluding to the East Germans seeking refuge in West German embassies in Czechoslovakia and Poland, the spokesman, Richard Boucher, added:
''The root cause of the situation is that these people don't want to live in East Germany, and if you are going to have a way of resolving the situation in the long run there are going to have to be political and economic reforms in East Germany that will make it a more livable place.'' 
That message was echoed on Capitol Hill, where the Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, Raymond G. H. Seitz, told the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Europe that he ''could not rule out'' a volcanic political eruption in East Germany if its aging leadership does not move to open its rigid political and economic systems.
''I noticed just this morning that there was a demonstration in Leipzig of some 10,000 people yesterday,'' Mr. Seitz said, when asked what might happen if the East German Government, once the anchor of the Warsaw Pact, continues to resist change.
The Seitz and Boucher statements, after several months in which the Administration has adopted a very muted approach, reflect the degree to which both Washington and Moscow seem to understand each other's interests and intentions in Eastern Europe.
 
'We Are Not Out to Exploit'
''The Soviets understand that we are not out to exploit any signs of trouble or weakness in Eastern Europe, so they are comfortable in granting these countries a certain degree of freedom, provided they show sensitivity to the Soviet Union's security concerns,'' a top Administration policy maker said.
A State Department European expert said, ''The Soviets are increasingly looking at the situation like us -that reform is required for stability in Eastern Europe. As that happens we feel emboldened to encourage the reform process.''
There is ''obvious Soviet acquiescence to what is happening with the East German refugees,'' the official added. ''They are trying to send the East Germans a message that the hemorrhaging of East Germany's population underscores that the Government needs to get on the reform bandwagon.''
 
Democrats Propose Aid Increase
As Administration officials discussed the East German situation, House Democratic leaders, dismissing President Bush's $244 million in new assistance for Poland and Hungary as a woefully ''inadequate'' response to the historic changes underway in Eastern Europe, today introduced their own aid program. It would spend $887.5 million over three years in food aid, private funds, Peace Corps programs, trade credits, insurance loan guarantees and technical training. About $415 million would be allocated in fiscal 1990, which began Sunday.
This House aid package is expected to be merged with a similar bill introduced by Senate Democrats and approved last month by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
In addition, House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, and the Senate Majority Leader, George J. Mitchell, Democrat of Maine, invited Lech Walesa, the leader of Solidarity, to address a joint meeting of Congress on Nov. 15. Mr. Walesa, who had already announced plans to visit the United States, is expected to accept.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); REFUGEES (76%); IMMIGRATION (70%); TRENDS (62%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 



112 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Machinists Reject Wage Package

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Perhaps no company in America has been so successful in surviving the manufacturing downturn of the 1980's as the Boeing Company, but its current prosperity has made it a prime target for organized labor's attempts to make up for years of stagnant wages and other concessions.
Boeing plants here and elsewhere around the country are working overtime to fill billions of dollars in new orders for commercial airliners. With skilled labor in short supply, the International Association of Machinists, which represents virtually all of Boeing's 58,000 production workers, expected this year to extract substantial wage increases and healthy bonuses. But the company has insisted on holding raises and bonuses to a level the union considers inadequate, and today the union members voted to strike at midnight. 
Boeing, which has more than $80 billion in unfilled plane orders, is the single biggest exporter in the United States. The company sells more than 30 percent of its aircraft abroad, and a prolonged strike could swell the nation's trade deficit.
Noting that the machinists union had the power to shut down Boeing, Justin Ostro, a vice president of the union, urged its members to approve a strike. #30,000 Workers at Rally ''You'll never be in a better position than you are now,'' he told more than 30,000 Boeing workers at a rally in the Kingdome, Seattle's indoor stadium, just before the workers voted this morning to reject the offer and to approve the strike. ''If you turn tail and run now, don't come back in three years begging for more.''
The key issue was an inadequate wage and bonus package, said Thomas Baker, president of District 751, the machinists' unit in Seattle, where Boeing has its headquarters. He said other provisions of the proposed contract would have been acceptable.
More than any other labor dispute this year, a strike at Boeing would challenge the prevailing pattern of wage settlements in the United States.
Two other major contracts, involving steelworkers and telephone workers, were settled for wage and bonus packages that were less than the Boeing offer. But in both cases, either the companies were not as prosperous as Boeing or the unions lacked the leverage of the machinists to close operations.
The strike, which began at midnight at Boeing's Wichita, Kan., plant, was the first at Boeing since 1977. #10% Pay Rise Offered In negotiations that were closed to the public, Boeing offered a 10 percent wage increase over three years, or an average of 3.3 percent a year. That amount is below the inflation rate, which is now 4 to 5 percent, but it is equal to the average union wage settlement in the first half of this year, according to the Labor Department.
But the machinists' leadership, noting Boeing's record profits and nearly 10-year backlog of orders, insisted on a ''substantial'' wage increase.
Mr. Ostro said Boeing's refusal to offer better compensation reflected the company's ''greedy'' desire to keep its profits. ''They've gotten used to them,'' he said.
Russell Young, a company spokesman, said the Boeing proposals offered ''substantial growth in compensaton and benefits.'' Boeing now pays its workers an average of about $13.50 an hour, putting them at the upper end of the blue-collar wage scale in the United States.
 
Bonus Payments at Christmas
But the proposed wage increase would be the first for Boeing production workers in six years. The company had obtained concessions in 1983 and 1986, contending that it needed the concessions to compete profitably in world markets. The concessions involved one-time bonus payments, reaching 12 percent of gross pay in 1986 and 5 percent in each of the last two years.
They were paid just before Christmas, and many workers counted on them to pay off credit card debt, take vacations or make a down payment on a car or home. But the bonuses were not wrapped into base wages and thus did not count toward pensions, vacation, overtime and sick pay - a huge savings for Boeing and for many other companies that have substituted bonuses for wages in hard times and now want to continue them.
Boeing sought in the current negotiations for a new three-year contract to keep the wage element to a minimum, offering bonuses instead. Some executives argued, for example, that wage increases could make labor costs unbearably high in the next downturn in airplane orders. They also counted on the often-stated preference of many Boeing workers for another round of Christmas bonuses, this time above 10 percent a year.
''I like the bonus; it's a form of forced savings and I used it last year for a trip to California,'' said Cheryl Loomis, a 40-year-old materials inspector. ''If they could make the raise big enough that would be better of course, but that won't happen. If it did, Boeing could price itself out of the market.''
In the weeks before the current contract expired the union conducted an intensive campaign to educate workers about the bonus, even issuing a videotape showing how wage increases, through compounding, produce more income for workers than bonuses do.
Boeing offered a bonus of 8 percent the first year and only 3 percent the second year, in addition to the wage increase. Mr. Baker suggested that either a better bonus or a better wage increase, or a combination of the two, would have avoided a strike vote.

GRAPHIC: photo of Boeing machinists at a meeting in Seattle (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (95%); INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS ASSN OF; BOEING CO

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STRIKES; LABOR; CONTRACTS FACTORY WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONUS PAY (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INFLATION (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); OVERTIME (77%); STRIKES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); AIRLINES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NEW ORDERS (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); APPROVALS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



113 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: ENFORCEMENT LAX, U.S. AUDITORS SAY

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
The internal inspectors of three Federal agencies told Congress today about serious weaknesses in the agencies' enforcement of Federal law.
Still, two of the inspectors general, from the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Health and Human Services, praised the Bush Administration's commitment to addressing emerging problems and to improving enforcement. The third is the acting inspector general from the Labor Department.
Some problems the three men described relate to poor management, while others stem from a recent Justice Department ruling that raised concern about the legal status of the inspectors general. The inspectors general, under a 1978 law, enjoy much independence to investigate fraud and waste in their agencies or departments. But because they report both to the President and Congress, they work in a constitutionally ambivalent environment. 
 
Jurisdiction Limited
In March the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel limited the investigative jurisdiction of the Labor Department inspector general's agents to Government-financed programs or Federal employees.
John C. Martin, inspector general of the E.P.A., said the ruling was ''unnecessarily restrictive.''
The implications of that ruling were a focus of the hearing today by the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. The testimony included these disclosures:
* Mr. Martin said the E.P.A. had become a ''paper tiger'' in enforcing laws against polluters. He said its ''pervasive problem'' concerned large reductions in penalties, which, in effect, make it cheaper for polluters to pay a fine than to clean up a hazard.
* Richard P. Kusserow, the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services, said Medicare was being cheated out of $400 million to $900 million annually by insurance companies, but the Justice Department's strict interpetation of inspector general duties clouded his auditors' ability to investigate it. Mr. Kusserow said a similar situation existed at other agencies, like the Interior Department office that collects billions of dollars in royalties from oil and gas leases.
* Raymond Maria, the acting inspector general of the Labor Department, said the department historically had a ''visceral aversion to criminal enforcement'' that was exacerbated by the Justice Department ruling. He also said the ruling, which Labor Department lawyers first requested in September 1988 because of conflicts between them and the inspector general's office, had caused his office to suspend 1,200 criminal investigations in areas like unemployment insurance fraud.
The hearing is part of an inquiry by the Senate committee into the activities of the inspectors general and Administration efforts to improve management of the Government. The panel's chairman, Senator John Glenn, Democrat of Ohio, has said he hopes the hearings will help prevent a recurrence of the management problems of the Reagan Administration, including those in the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Energy Department's nuclear weapons program.
 
Questions Over Applicability
David Runkel, a Justice Department spokesman, said that Justice officials and a representative of the inspectors general were discussing the March ruling and that it should be applied only to the Labor Department. But Mr. Maria said his office was not part of those discussions and was concerned that the original request by Labor Department lawyers included ''distortions and inaccuracies.''
Mr. Martin of the E.P.A. said that while the ''new Administration has a serious commitment to enforce programs,'' audits by his office of many enforcement programs showed penalties were routinely reduced.
He spoke of an instance in which the E.P.A. assessed a $3.5 million fine against the city of Arcadia, Fla., but later settled for $36,000 or about one cent on the dollar. He said this was ''not an isolated example.''
Mr. Kusserow praised the management efforts of senior officials at his department, as well as those of Richard G. Darman, the budget director. But he also said there was a ''general reluctance on the part of program managers to admit'' to weaknesses in their programs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR, DEPARTMENT OF (US); INSPECTORS GENERAL, OFFICES OF; JUSTICE, DEPARTMENT OF; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA); HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, DEPARTMENT OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LABOR; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; WATER POLLUTION; AIR POLLUTION; HEALTH INSURANCE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); INSURANCE FRAUD (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); WATER POLLUTION (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (61%); ROYALTIES (61%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); OIL & GAS LEASES (50%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; MARTIN, JOHN C (INSPECTOR GENERAL); KUSSEROW, RICHARD P (INSPECTOR GENERAL); MARIA, RAYMOND JOHN C MARTIN (88%); 



114 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: PTL FRAUD CASE GOES TO THE JURY

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Oct. 3

 BODY:
Jim Bakker was described by prosecutors as a con man and by his defense lawyers as a victim of Government interference today at his trial on conspiracy and fraud charges.
In closing arguments on the 23d day of Mr. Bakker's often-tumultuous trial, the lawyers presented pictures of Mr. Bakker that were as varied as the defrocked evangelist's boom and bust career. The judge gave the case to jurors after later in the day.
Prosecutors portrayed Mr. Bakker's PTL ministry, which collapsed amid sexual and financial scandals in 1987, as an overextended marketing scheme, dependent on fresh pitches to keep the money coming in. 
''What you have is a pyramid on the brink of collapse, a house of cards ready to fall,'' the prosecutor, Deborah Smith, told jurors. ''PTL could not have gone on for more than a few months than it did.''
But defense attorneys said the case against Mr. Bakker depended more on innuendo than on evidence and that the prosecution had not proved that Mr. Bakker committed any crimes.
 
Defendant Faces 24 Counts
''Just think how much circumstantial evidence there is in this case,'' Mr. Bakker's chief lawyer, George T. Davis, told jurors. ''It's just reeking with it. It is replete with it.''
Mr. Bakker is charged with 24 counts of fraud and conspiracy in connection with vacation inducements called lifetime partnerships that the government says were fraudulently offered to supporters of the evangelist.
Federal District Judge Robert Potter gave his instructions to jurors late this afternoon and they are scheduled to begin their deliberations Wednesday morning. The charges against Mr. Bakker carry a maximum penalty of 120 years in prison and $5 million in fines.
Ms. Smith, whose stern demeanor never wavered throughout the trial, characterized the case as ''a tale of corruption, of immense corruption.''
 
'Master of Using Half Truths'
She said Mr. Bakker had built an empire on false inducements and half truths and she quoted Alfred Lord Tennyson: ''A lie which is half a truth is ever the blackest of lies.''
''Mr. Bakker is a world class master of using half truths,'' she said.
She said Mr. Bakker's half truths included efforts to keep the financial status of his PTL empire from his board members and his promotion of lifetime yearly vacations at his Heritage USA Christian theme park and resort that he could not provide.
Instead of building the lodgings he promised, the funds were mostly used to meet operating expenses as well as for bonuses for himself and his wife Tammy Faye, said the prosecutor.
Using charts of PTL's activities, Ms. Smith portrayed the government's version of how Mr. Bakker parterships operated: The first program, the Grand Hotel partnership, was billed as limited to 25,000 followers who sent in $1,000 each. That was supposed to guarantee them yearly four-day vacations at the Heritage USA for the rest of their lives.
Instead, the prosecutor said Mr. Bakker sold 66,683 partnerships without telling his viewers. She said only 53 percent of the money went for the hotel. In his next two vacation partnership plans, for which the lodgings were never completed, only 15 percent and 5 percent of the money raised was used for construction, she said.
Ms. Smith, an attorney with the Justice Department in Washington, said the result was a classic pyramid scheme built on lies presented in the guise of religious broadcasting.
''It's gone on too long,'' Ms. Smith told jurors. ''It's your job and your time to let the world and the victims know what went on.''
The closing arguments for the defense got off to a rocky start.
 
Defense Stresses Doubts
Mr. Davis, Mr. Bakker's 82-year-old attorney, began with a rambling remarks about the history of the American legal system that had jurors looking bored and confused.
Several times Mr. Davis, in what seemed to be a thinly veiled reference to the chances of a a mistrial, stressed the importance of jurors with doubts about guilt holding out, ''even if it's one versus 11,'' he said.
Mr. Davis said that with its superior resources the government had built a case that intruded unfairly into church activities. ''I don't recall ever hearing anything about how much the Pope of Rome got for bonuses or housing allowances,'' he said.
He said the government had never proved Mr. Bakker had any intention of committing fraud or conspiracy. He said at least 95 percent of the government's case was based on circumstantial evidence.
''He's being tried because it's alleged he had a criminal mind,'' Mr. Davis said. ''You didn't hear one person in this case say that. You didn't hear it because it isn't true.''
His co-counsel, Harold Bender, followed with a fervent defense of Mr. Bakker. Speaking in almost evangelical tones, he asked jurors to imagine their own preacher under a similar microscope, portrayed in videotapes taken out of context.
''He doesn't expect you to give him pity,'' he said. ''He doesn't expect sympathy. But he does have the right to expect justice under the law.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GHG (ASX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) AND MOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE T SCHMIDT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PTL (TELEVISION MINISTRY)

SUBJECT: TRIALS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING JURY TRIALS (92%); LAWYERS (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); JUDGES (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); RELIGION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); SCANDALS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); 

PERSON: BAKKER, JIM; APPLEBOME, PETER



115 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Capital Gains Break - Wrong!

 BODY:
Last Thursday the House approved a two-year cut in the tax rate on capital gains - increases in the value of stocks, bonds and real estate - to less than 20 percent. The decision was wrong. Profoundly wrong. It's now up to the Senate to preserve some semblance of conscience and reason, and reverse the House vote. 
Proponents of the bill say it will increase Federal tax revenues and revive long-term productive investment. The evidence says otherwise. Studies show that tax revenues will fall after an initial orgy of selling appreciated assets to beat the 1991 deadline. To control the growing deficit, Congress would then be forced to raise other taxes or cut Federal programs. The victims of these changes will not be the rich, who stand to gain most from favorable capital gains treatment.
Nor will the temporary tax cut spur productive investment. Instead it gives an impetus to quick selling. When John sells his shares of General Motors stock to Mary, the corporation doesn't gain a dime. The tax cut applies to old and new assets alike. It would take magic, not logic, to link a windfall gain from past investments to an investor's decision about the future. The proponents' case is further weakened by the fact that the bulk of the money for new technological investment comes from pension funds and other tax-exempt investor groups; their decisions are immune to tax rates.
Especially galling is the claim that the House bill will encourage investors to make long-term financial commitments. Such commitments require confidence that the investment climate will not change at Congressional whim. The sorry vote in the House last week proves otherwise.
In one stroke, Congress reversed two solemn pledges that it made as part of the 1986 tax reform. First, capital gains and ordinary income were to be taxed the same. Second, tax shelters were to be abolished. Yet last week's vote reinstates the right of timber investors to offset ordinary income with ''passive losses''; in other words, they got their tax shelter back. Will pig farmers and real estate investors be far behind?
It's O.K. to exclude from taxation the part of capital gains due to inflation. The House bill would do this after 1991. But such indexation ought to be reserved for future investments and only for corporate equity. Other assets already receive tax breaks and require no additional subsidy. Otherwise, capital gains taxes need to be left alone.
Odds are that the Senate will pass some capital gains tax cut. But senators would go far to restore faith in government if they looked the plain facts of the capital gains tax in the face, and then left the tax reform of 1986 essentially intact.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; EDITORIALS TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); TAX REFORM (75%); IMMUNITY (64%); HOG & PIG FARMING (60%); 



116 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
Frankly Nice to China

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, told the United Nations that relations with the U.S. were ''at a crossroads,'' but could improve if America stopped criticizing China.
That seems to be the reward to President George Bush for keeping almost mum after Tiananmen Square and during the continuing crackdown. Despite the angry distress of Congress and the American public, he limited official reaction to suspending military deliveries and high-level contacts. Both measures have already been breached. 
So it shouldn't be surprising that Beijing considers it reasonable to try to censor American opinion, as well as stifling all domestic critics. For well over a decade, starting almost immediately after ''Ping-Pong diplomacy'' in 1971 in the midst of the vicious Cultural Revolution, China has benefited from a special indulgence in U.S. human rights attitudes.
There was an excessive, almost hysterical view of China from the 1949 revolution until then, but afterward there was a switch to a double standard. After Deng Xiaoping launched his ''four modernizations'' in the late 1970's, there came extravagant expectations that China was ''going capitalist'' and would inevitably move on toward democracy. The U.S. was prepared to be patiently encouraging. No doubt this illusion contributed to the shock of this June.
But it isn't a reason to let Beijing think America doesn't care what it does at home as long as China accepts dollar investments and credits. Chinese leaders keep repeating they will maintain ''reform and opening to the outside world'' because ''the policies have injected vitality and energy into China's socialist cause and reinforced state economic power.''
Indeed they have. ''China is not afraid of sanctions,'' Chairman Deng recently told Japanese visitors. But he doesn't seem to realize that no foreign penalties could set back his ambition of assuring ''China's rightful place as one of the most advanced industrial countries in the world in the next century'' as much as his own power gluttony and brutality.
Even if the leaders wanted to, no doubt they couldn't reimpose the isolation of the Cultural Revolution, which cost millions of deaths and probably decades of development.
Still, there is nostalgia for that kind of self-exaltation. Two years ago, when there was rapid advance, a young woman who had been a Red Guard told me that perhaps it was better when the country was cut off because ''The U.S. was more polite then.'' It didn't occur to her that she hadn't a clue what the rest of the world was saying while China lacerated itself in self-imposed quarantine.
But the leaders, who are old enough to remember all their country's tremendous upheavals in this century, do know it can have weight in the world only if it stays in the world as an active partner. They forget that partnership takes more than one, and it is China's own behavior that makes it more or less appealing, more or less reliable for cooperation.
It does China no service for the U.S., and the rest of the West, to be ''polite'' and hide what we think, our reasons for loss of confidence in China's future and loss of sympathy.
An article in the current World Policy Journal points out that U.S. policy ''has only encouraged further irresponsible behavior on the part of China,'' as well as discouraging reformers who seek democracy, and making it harder to develop business relations.
Washington is ''driven by outdated sentiments and questionable assumptions,'' the writer Marie Gottschalk says. She sums them up as the appeal of anti-Soviet strategy, a vast market but in the distant future, and the illusion of stability.
Although ''stability'' is the main excuse Chairman Deng gives for repression, in fact post-revolutionary China has followed the most unstable policies imaginable, lurching from the Great Leap Forward and vast ''people's communes'' (which brought a famine that killed 20 million) to the Hundred Flowers to the Cultural Revolution to ''modernization'' to reasserting class war. In between, there were zigzags of tolerance (Democracy Wall) and campaigns against ''intellectual deviation.''
These unsteady 40 years, which Beijing has just celebrated, the advances of the last decade and the Chinese people's energetic talents make it likely this phase won't last long either. As former U.S. Ambassador Winston Lord says in the journal Foreign Affairs, ''For the Chinese people above all, we must hope that the Big Chill is soon lifted.''
But as Beijing says, it depends on China, not on us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ISOLATION & QUARANTINE (68%); CENSORSHIP (55%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA; QIAN QICHEN (MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



117 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Florio Runs With Method to His Meekness

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Representative James J. Florio, a candidate once derided as stiff if not robotic, is campaigning for governor these days with the fluid ease and growing self-confidence of a man who feels he is finally in synch with his times.
In 1981, Mr. Florio lost the governorship running against the anti-government policies and personal appeal of Ronald Reagan. This year the Democrat praises New Jersey's seven years of economic growth under the Republican who beat him, Thomas H. Kean, but says good times in suburbia have brought worries about overdevelopment and pollution that now require an active government to solve.
In addition, Mr. Florio says, prosperity has eased concern over inflation and the economy, giving voters the peace of mind to choose this year on the basis of social issues like abortion, on which his stands are distinct from those of his conservative opponent, Representative Jim Courter.
But just as he embraces the economic growth of the Reagan years, Mr. Florio has also copied the tactics that brought Republicans success in New Jersey and elsewhere in the 1980's. Mr. Florio is appearing likable in person while using television to launch harsh assaults against Mr. Courter. 
''Florio has taken a page right out of the Republican game book,'' said Jay Severin, a Republican political consultant. ''The candidate can be a nice guy on the ground while the air war inflicts the damage.''
The Florio campaign's sharply negative television attacks on Mr. Courter follow the success of a similarly harsh campaign by another New Jersey Democrat, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg. in his defeat of Pete Dawkins last year.
And the outcome of the New Jersey race is of particular interest to both national parties because it was here, in a state whose voters were loyal to the Democratic Party since the New Deal, that the Republicans scored five victories in the 1980's, starting with Ronald Reagan's defeat of President Jimmy Carter in 1980 and Mr. Kean's victory over Mr. Florio by 1,797 votes in 1981. Mr. Reagan and Mr. Kean won lopsided re-election victories here, and Mr. Bush carried the state last year with 57 percent of the vote.
In 1981 Mr. Florio ran as a defender of government and Democratic social policies, just months after Mr. Reagan's anti-government rhetoric brought a Republican Administration back to the White House.
While Mr. Kean and Mr. Reagan campaigned in the state as avuncular leaders of a party reborn, Mr. Florio, his supporters later conceded, often appeared as a frosty technocrat who seemed to prefer long love affairs with policies and curt conversations with people.
But this year television cameras frequently find Mr. Florio crouching to ask a tiny child her name and to tell her about his own baby granddaughter. When he stands, there is his wife, Lucinda, by his side, her gaze riveted to the candidate's face and radiating affection and respect.
Across the state, he repeats the theme that he believes will win the governorship: a faith that with hard work and revitalized government, America can keep a promise of a better life for its children.
''I want to make sure there is opportunity for the next generation,'' Mr. Florio said at a recent campaign stop, referring to his granddaughter. ''I have an involvement in the year 2020. I have a little piece of me that will be here, even if I am not.''
 
Auto Insurance and Environment
In his speeches to unions, Mr. Florio portrays his pledges for more action on the environment and insurance not as a promise of more government but as a covenant between a son of a shipbuilder and ''average, God-fearing, hard-working people'' who deserve better from their leaders.
Mr. Florio has proposed reducing the state's rising automobile insurance rates, now the highest in the nation, by stricter regulation of the insurance industry. Amid rising concern over the environment, Mr. Florio, the author of the Federal Superfund law, has promised to create a new office of environmental prosecutor.
''My husband is the only man I know who can talk passionately about sludge,'' Mrs. Florio said recently, deflating with a smile what from an opponent would be an attack on her husband's personality.
Resting in his shirt-sleeves in his living room in Blackwood, Mr. Florio chuckled over what others have described as a new ease with voters. This year, he said, he is just being himself, while his Republican opponent, Mr. Courter, has struggled to find his identity.
 
Mr. Nice Guy, Mr. Mean Guy
''My mother always told me it is better to be what you are than make yourself over into something else,'' Mr. Florio said.
But critics point out that there is method to his meekness. Like Mr. Lautenberg in his race for re-election last year, Mr. Florio tempers personal criticism of his opponent in his speeches while a battery of commercials does the really nasty work, accusing Mr. Courter of many misdeeds.
A new Florio commercial features a drawing of Pinocchio and a caricature of Mr. Courter. The Republican candidate's nose grows as the commercial accuses Mr. Courter of leaving hazardous waste on his property, changing his position on abortion and falsely claiming credit for sponsoring a bill to make the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday a national holiday.
The advertisement says flatly that Mr. Courter has lied and that environmentalists have compared him to Pinocchio.
''Poor Pinocchio,'' the narrator says. ''Jim Courter's giving you a bad name.''
 
Courter Sees Distortion
A Courter spokesman, Donald Sico, disputed the advertisement's claims, particularly the accusation that Mr. Courter is a polluter. Mr. Courter says the waste was illegally dumped on his land and was cleaned up.
''Jim Florio has been extremely effective in distorting the record of Mr. Courter,'' Mr. Sico said.
Three independent polls conducted in the state showed that among voters who made up their minds or were leaning toward a candidate in mid-September, Mr. Florio was favored by margins of between 14 and 23 percentage points.
One poll, conducted by The Record of Hackensack, found that Mr. Courter had lost support among Republicans for his conservative stand on the right to abortion and for his proposal to ban homosexuals from jobs as teachers, camp counselors and foster parents.
The poll indicated that three in five New Jersey voters opposed new laws that would make it harder to obtain abortions and that nearly the same proportion opposed any consideration of someone's sexual preference in applications for a teaching job.
The Record's poll sampled the opinions of 983 likely voters in telephone interviews from Sept. 16 to 23 and had a statistical margin of error of 3 percentage points.
 
Florio Aiming at Social Issues
Mr. Courter strongly opposed abortion and in August called for a ban on homosexuals in jobs that involved contact with children. He has modified those positions, however, saying that he would not impose his beliefs about abortion on others and that he no longer supported a job ban on homosexuals.
Since much of the Reagan coalition was made up of voters who agreed with Republicans on economic policies but disagreed with conservative social stands, Mr. Florio said, social issues could prove an increasingly useful tool to Democrats in regaining voters who strayed in the 1980's.
A number of Republican leaders in the state attribute Mr. Florio's advantage in the polls less to philosophical shifts among the electorate than to tactical errors in the Courter campaign during the summer and early fall. They say that if Mr. Courter campaigns effectively and his television commercials take hold among the voters, what polls show as a Florio lead will quickly shrink.
Mr. Sico said the Democrat's weaknesses in the state might be exposed in the coming weeks as Mr. Courter begins to stress the messages that worked for Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush. He said Mr. Courter would repeatedly ask voters to judge who is tougher on crime and drugs and who is likelier to raise their taxes.

GRAPHIC: photo of James and Lucinda (NYT/Marty O'Grady)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); SUBURBS (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER; FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR) RONALD REAGAN (91%); JAMES A COURTER (79%); JIMMY CARTER (79%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (59%); 



118 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Four Hospitals Break Ranks And Set Pacts

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

 BODY:
With a strike deadline hours away, four New York City area hospitals, including Beth Israel Medical Center, broke ranks with industry negotiators and reached separate union agreements late last night, officials involved in the negotiations said.
Yesterday's agreements came after hospital negotiators made their first new contract offer in weeks, only to see it rejected by union leaders as ''insulting.''
Officials in the negotiations said the rejection spurred several hospitals, including Beth Israel, one of the city's largest, to reach separate agreements with Local 1199 of the Drug, Hospital and Health Care Workers to avoid a strike set for 5 A.M. today.
As of 1 A.M. last night, the other hospitals said to have settled were Jamaica Hospital, the New York Infirmary-Beekman Downtown Hospital and the South Oaks Hospital in Amityville, L.I.
Other major Manhattan teaching hospitals, including St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, were reportedly discussing similar separate agreements. 
 
Patterned on Presbyterian Pact
Both union and hospital sources said the new agreements were patterned on an agreement reached Monday between the union and Presbyterian Hospital.
Public health experts and hospital officials said the new agreements, coming on the heels of the dramatic departure of Presbyterian from the position of the industry's negotiating arm, the League of Voluntary Hospitals, would make it exceptionally difficult for the more than 40 remaining hospitals and nursing homes to hold out for less expensive contract terms.
Hospital and union officials said that the president and chief executive of Beth Israel, Dr. Robert G. Newman, reached the agreement with the union at the Hilton Hotel at 54th Street and the Avenue of the Americas, then drove to the Carlyle Hotel on Madison Avenue to meet with members of the league's executive committee in an apparently unsuccessful attempt to convince them to reach similiar terms.
Dennis Rivera, president of the union, said: ''We are hopeful that the growing number of institutions which are settling with Local 1199 will send a very powerful signal to the League that it is time to end the conflict between employers and workers and that it is time to go back to taking care of our patients.''
A spokesman for Beth Israel confirmed the hospital's agreement with the union, saying: ''We are extremely pleased that we were able to reach an agreement with our employees. We look forward to continuing to work without interruption with our employees tomorrow to provide the best possible care for our patients. We are hopeful there will be an industry-wide settlement.''
Union officials said they were remaining in contact with field organizers throughout the night to inform them of late-breaking hospital settlements. ''We have also asked all our members to listen to the radio for reports,'' said Bill Batson, a spokesman.
The League's offer had been made yesterday afternoon to create movement in negotiations and stem defections from hospital ranks, but was immediately called ''outrageous, insulting and provocative'' by a union official. The proposal called for a three-year pact with raises of 6 percent in the first two years and 5 percent in the final year, along with signing bonuses totaling $600.
 
Talks Dramatically Affected
Both sides agreed that the Presbyterian's surprise departure from the league's bargaining position had dramatically affected the negotiations. Presbyterian, which employs more than 3,100 of Local 1199's 50,000 members, completed its agreement with the union yesterday afternoon.
The agreement called for a three-year contract that includes annual wage increases of 8 percent in the first year, 7 percent in the second and 5.5 percent in the final year. The workers covered include nurses aides, pharmacists, X-ray and blood technicians, orderlies, clerks and messengers.
The union had been asking for similar terms to the two-year pact with annual raises of 8.5 percent agreed to in June by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, which runs four hospitals. Before yesterday's offer, the league had proposed a three-year contract with a raise of 4 percent the first year and 4.5 percent thereafter, along with annual signing bonuses of $500. Most of Local 1199's members make between $300 and $400 a week.
The officials and observers said the Presbyterian agreement placed severe pressure on league negotiators to reach a settlement.
''A strike is in no one's interest,'' said Dr. Spencer Forman, president of the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. ''Anyone who thinks that anyone is spoiling for a strike is mistaken. The problem in New York is how to balance equity against the financial situation of the hospitals.''
One public health administrator, who asked not to be identified, said yesterday afternoon: ''Everything suggests to me they are going to settle by the morning. There are too many people who will back away from the league if they don't.''
The new offer was announced by its president and chief negotiator, William J. Abelow, at a somber news conference at the Omni Hotel.
 
'On the Brink Financially'
Mr. Abelow said that the offer ''far exceeds what the hospitals can expect to receive from the state and Federal governments,'' and that it ''will place us right on the brink financially.''
Minutes later, in a scene that revealed both the talks' substantive and emotional gulfs, the union countered with a news conference of its own.
With dozens of union negotiating committee members behind him jeering every mention of the league, Gerry Hudson, executive vice president of Local 1199 said, ''At this late hour, the league sent the Federal mediator to give us what we consider a provocative and insulting offer.''
''Instead of bringing us closer to a settlement,'' he added, ''this offer brings us closer to a strike.''
Mr. Hudson told reporters that, ''it is our expectation that other hospitals will ultimately accept the terms of Columbia-Presbyterian.''
A chief executive of another academic medical center, who asked to remain anonymous, called Presbyterian, part of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in upper Manhattan, ''one of the real jewels in the crown of the city's medical establishment.'' But, he added, ''from an operational basis, they have been losing their shirt for some time.''
Comparing Presbyterian with the remainder of the private hospital industry, the executive said: ''Their economic situation caused them to make a deal. Our situations are somewhat different. We are not prepared to cave on the strength of the Presbyterian deal.''
But several observers said that the Presbyterian settlement, precisely because the hospital's financial condition is so precarious, makes it all but impossible for the holdouts, led by other large, prestigious academic medical centers, to claim that they cannot afford a similar agreement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRUG, HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION; HOSPITALS, LEAGUE OF VOLUNTARY; BETH ISRAEL MEDICAL CENTER (NYC); JAMAICA HOSPITAL (NYC); NEW YORK INFIRMARY-BEEKMAN DOWNTOWN HOSPITAL; SOUTH OAKS HOSPITAL (AMITYVILLE, LI)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NURSING HOMES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (53%); 



119 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Lessons

BYLINE: By Edward B. Fiske

 BODY:
President Bush may or may not be able to create a ''kinder, gentler'' nation, but he has already created a kinder, gentler Federal education policy.
Both the rhetoric and the decisions that emerged last week from the education conference at the University of Virginia indicate that Mr. Bush has quietly repudiated the central education policies of the Reagan Administration. Under William J. Bennett, the education secretary at the time, the Administration mounted strident attacks on teachers unions and maintained that better curriculums will cure most educational ills.
Mr. Bennett, now director of National Drug Control Policy, seemed to sense the shift when he characterized a discussion from which he had just emerged as ''pap.'' This drew a knuckle rap from John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, who said the President believes that the governors ''have a strong grasp about what's going on in the country.'' 
The shift was foreshadowed in January when, 10 days before the inauguration, the White House held a conference that focused on the idea of giving parents and students a greater choice of which school to attend.
For eight years the Reagan Administration sought tuition vouchers or some alternative that would help students who wished to go to private or parochial schools. These plans were vigorously opposed by Democrats, who feared a weakening of public schools.
But at the White House conference, Mr. Bush and other speakers pulled their punches, limiting talk on choice to public schools. As a result, the Administration now has bipartisan support in its push for choice.
Mr. Bennett frequently attacked the leaders of teachers unions and other education organizations, describing them as a ''blob.'' By contrast, Lauro F. Cavazos, his successor, has met frequently with such leaders, and at Charlottesville Mr. Bush seemed to cheer him on.
''Our teachers already are giving their heart and soul to their jobs,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But we have never before worked together - President and principal, governor and teacher - to achieve results in education.''
One of Mr. Bennett's major accomplishments was a series of booklets titled ''What Works.'' They were an effort, generally well received among educators, to put research findings at the disposal of teachers, principals and others.
Implicit in ''What Works'' was the message that the solutions to the important educational problems of the day are already known - at least to the Department of Education; all that is needed is to apply them.
But in his speech at Charlottesville, Mr. Bush looked not to the certainty of school days past but to the promises of the future. There is no ''quick and easy solution,'' he said; for many schools ''experimentation is preferable to the status quo.''
Perhaps the most striking change between the administrations, though, can be found in their analyses of the causes of the country's educational woes and what is needed to cure them. Mr. Bennett spoke often of the three ''C's'' - content, character and choice. Two of the three dealt with curriculum, and in his speeches he plugged relentlessly for more teaching of ethical and religious ideals and a better grounding in the classics of Western civilization.
But the ''social compact'' forged between Mr. Bush and the governors last week was built on the assumption that American schools face a structural and environmental crisis, not a curricular one. The best curriculum will go unlearned, they argued, if students arrive at kindergarten undernourished, if red tape keeps school officials from making the most efficient use of Federal resources or if school systems are too top heavy and rigid to respond to diverse student needs.
''Business-as-usual is not getting us where we need to go,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The American people are ready for radical reforms. We must not disappoint them.''
Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, suggested that the vision enunciated by Mr. Bush in his address seemed to come right out of John Dewey -tolerant of diversity, child centered, interested in empowering teachers and others. ''Maybe George Bush is a closet Progressive,'' he said.
In fact, what Mr. Bush did was embrace an approach to school reform that began developing in the mid-1980's around groups like the Carnegie Forum on Education and the Economy and that has won wide support from corporate leaders and the National Governors Association. Last winter, John Scully, the chairman of Apple Computer, met with the President to argue for this approach. It has also been embraced by Secretary Cavazos.
A kinder and gentler Federal education policy may or may not turn out to be effective in solving the country's educational woes. But there is no doubt that it is new.

GRAPHIC: drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); CURRICULA (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); TUITION FEES (72%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (72%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (72%); DRUG POLICY (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); 

PERSON: FISKE, EDWARD B; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



120 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: EATING WELL;
Cholesterol Matters, But How Much?

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS

 BODY:
''MY friends are saying: 'Oh, thank heavens. I don't have to worry about that any more.' ''
Prof. Marion Nestle, chairwoman of the department of home economics and nutrition at New York University, was speaking about her friends' new attitude toward cholesterol. Suddenly, after America's collective nutrition consciousness had grown used to being told that cholesterol is practically synonymous with arsenic, experts appear to be having second thoughts.
Perhaps, some of them are saying, the relation between a high cholesterol level and the incidence of heart disease is not so clear after all. Perhaps, some people are beginning to think, there is no reason to reduce fat consumption; perhaps this means that eating a Dove Bar after every dinner is no better or worse than eating a bowl of raspberries. 
Such a conclusion would, of course, thrill people who reluctantly order a bowl of bran cereal for breakfast when what they really want is three strips of crisp bacon, a cheese omelet and a piece of Danish pastry.
In the last two months several experts have suggested that high cholesterol has been greatly overrated as a factor in heart disease. Almost simultaneously two books and two articles, one in The New England Journal of Medicine and the other, based on one of the books, in The Atlantic magazine, have made such an argument.
No question, the debate has muddied the waters. Nonetheless, most experts still agree that Americans need to reduce their consumption of fat, cholesterol and calories, and that the reduction of the risk of heart attack is just one of the benefits of such a diet.
What has drawn most of the fire in the recent publications is the National Cholesterol Education Program, a Federal effort to persuade Americans to reduce their cholesterol levels by whatever means necessary, even drugs, to what the experts consider a safe range. (They recommend 200 milligrams or less in a tenth of a liter of blood.) In ''Heart Failure'' by Thomas J. Moore (Random House, 1989) and ''Balanced Nutrition'' by Dr. Frederick J. Stare, Dr. Robert E. Olson and Dr. Elizabeth M. Whelan (Bob Adams Inc., 1989) the authors argue that the evidence against cholesterol is not strong enough to warrant such drastic measures as cholesterol-reducing drugs, which can have serious side effects.
If cholesterol is a risk factor for heart disease at all, they say, it is only one of several, including heredity, smoking and obesity. And they are concerned that most of the evidence showing that the risk of heart attack can be reduced by lowering cholesterol comes from studies done on middle-aged men.
Dr. Marvin Lipman, an internist in Scarsdale, N.Y., and the medical adviser to Consumers Union, is among those who think too much emphasis based on too little evidence has been placed on cholesterol. The results of studies on cholesterol, he said, ''may not apply to women or seniors or children, and we can't extrapolate from the studies.''
''I think it's hard to fly in the face of the National Academy of Sciences or the American Heart Association,'' he said, ''but by and large I think they tend to overdo it by extrapolating scientific data from one segment of the population to all segments of the population.''
What especially concerns those who agree with Dr. Lipman's view is the emphasis the National Cholesterol Education Program puts on lowering cholesterol by any means, including drugs if diet doesn't work.
Dr. Nestle, who was the managing editor of the 1988 Surgeon General's Report on Nutrition and Health, which also advised Americans to reduce their consumption of fat and cholesterol, is sympathetic to that view.
''I was concerned there was not enough emphasis on nutrition in the National Cholesterol Education Program,'' she said. ''Diet is given lip service in the program, and an awful lot of attention is paid to drugs. That the drugs have not been adequately tested is correct.''
But she emphasized that the diet component of the program should not be tainted by the questions about the use of drugs. ''There is nothing harmful about it,'' she said.
If people are confused it is not surprising. But the fact is that not a single reputable expert, including those who believe too much emphasis has been placed on cholesterol as the cause of heart disease, is suggesting that Americans should feel free to substitute Dove Bars for raspberries.
Speaking of the current controversy, Dr. Lipman said, ''I don't think the backlash should be so hard and fierce that people who should reduce elevated cholesterol levels should be told not to do so.''
The debate over cholesterol has arisen, in part, because science is made up of uncertainties. Data can be interpreted in more than one way, and not every study has indicated a link between high cholesterol levels and risk of heart attack.
''You are never going to get incontrovertible evidence in nutrition,'' Dr. Nestle said. The kind of epidemiological studies required for such proof are enormous and costly, and may never be done.
But an overall reduction of fat in the diet is a good idea, not just because of any benefit for the heart, but also because high-fat diets are associated with increased levels of certain types of cancer, diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure and gallbladder disease.
Those who defend the basing of cholesterol recommendations for the general population on studies of middle-aged men point to 1960's studies of male smokers that tied lung cancer to cigarettes.
''We looked for the effects of cigarette smoking in men before we looked for the effects in women,'' said Dr. Howard Hiatt, professor of medicine at Harvard University and former dean of the Harvard School of Public Health. ''And we saw a tremendous increase in lung cancer and coronary heart disease in men. And now that women are smoking as much as men we can see the increase in lung cancer and coronary heart disease in women. Common sense says if women stop smoking there will be a reduction.''
Dr. Hiatt said the analogy was apt for diet and heart disease as well: ''I don't think we have to wait 20 years to tell women to stop eating so much fat. The likelihood is very, very strong that the result will be the same.''
Dr. Art Ulene, author of ''Count Out Cholesterol,'' an official publication of the American Medical Association, said: ''It is ridiculous to assume that the studies are not applicable to younger people since we know the process of atherosclerosis starts early. Women are clearly at less risk than men prior to menopause, but rapidly catch up after they lose estrogen. I think women should make the same effort to keep cholesterol low, but obviously they have less to fear when they are younger.'' Dr. Ulene is a clinical associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Southern California and the ''family doctor'' on the ''Today'' show. ''
Dr. Ulene said some people are ''born lucky'' and can eat anything they want. ''There are people who are born with hereditary tendency to have very low cholesterol, and it is indeed foolish for them to be preoccupied with this issue,'' he said.
There are also people born with extremely high cholesterol levels and a tendency to premature death. But most people, he said, ''are in the middle and the risk of heart attack is going to be affected by whether or not we smoke, how much we weigh and the amount of saturated fat in our food.''
Dr. Ulene said it was not surprising that some short-term studies of cholesterol and heart attack do not show any relationship, adding, ''I believe that the real benefits from a cholesterol-lowering program are long term, really making a difference in 5, 10 or 15 years of adherence.''
Moderation, rather than hysteria, however, is the key. Dr. Hiatt said, ''If you have parents who died in their 90's in an auto accident, and you aren't smoking two packs a day, and you aren't violating any kind of code that will lead to your death, and if eating ice cream twice a week brings you an enormous amount of satisfaction, I don't see that there is any harm stopping at the nearest Haagen-Dazs.''
For those described by Dr. Ulene as in the middle, being prudent does not mean giving up everything you love to eat. Rather it means eating less of it.
''If you eat intelligently,'' Dr. Ulene said, ''you can enjoy a rich and varied diet and still have an occasional ice cream. There are no forbidden foods but there are foods you have to be very careful about.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (58%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (55%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FOOD; DIET AND NUTRITION; CHOLESTEROL CHOLESTEROL (92%); NUTRITION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); OILS & FATS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (77%); CHEESE (77%); OBESITY (72%); SMOKING (69%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); WRITERS (66%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: BURROS, MARIAN



121 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The U.S. and Mexico signed an agreement intended to enlarge trade and investment between the nations. Under the agreement, the broadest economic agreement ever reached by the countries, the nations are to decide by November on specific industrial sectors that could benefit from lower tariffs. [Page A1.] 
The European Community adopted a compromise plan of nonbinding rules that urge European television stations to devote a majority of their air time to shows made in Europe. [A1.]
 
Economy
The Senate Finance Committee approved a Democratic plan that would restore tax deductions for contributions to I.R.A.'s for all taxpayers, after rejecting a Republican plan to reduce the capital gains tax rate for individual and corporate taxpayers. [D1.]
U.S. factory orders for manufactured goods rose 2.9 percent in August. [D6.] New home sales fell 0.4 percent in August. [D6.]
The S.E.C. might get a greatly expanded budget should the House's budget reconciliation bill becomes law. [D8.]
 
 
 
Companies
McCaw Cellular agreed to acquire Metromedia's stake in the New York cellular market for $1.9 billion in cash, opening a new front in its battle to acquire Lin Broadcasting. [D1.]
Gillette wants to take razors a step further. The company has introduced a razor blade welded together by lasers and meant to be used in its new permanent razors. [D1.]
Investigators in Tokyo searched the offices of a Canon subsidiary and Apple Computer Japan, seeking evidence that importers selling Macintosh computers at discounts were being driven out of the market. [D1.]
Sony's deal to buy Columbia Pictures Entertainment has made the company a lightning rod for unaccustomed criticism. [D5.]
Crazy Eddie will liquidate its remaining assets to satisfy its creditors. [D1.]
Production workers at Boeing voted to strike, rejecting an offer comparable to what many unions have accepted this year. [A18.]
MGM Grand will spend nearly $700 million to create a movie theme park and 5,000-room hotel on the Strip in Las Vegas. [D4.]
The merger of Bristol-Myers and Squibb was approved by shareholders. [D4.]
 
 
 
Markets
The stock market soared to another historic high, as the Dow rose 40.84 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,754.56, surpassing the record of 2,752.09 set on Sept. 1. [D1.]
Prices of Treasury securities rose, helped by the dollar's strength overseas. [D17.] Yields on C.D.'s and money market accounts were generally higher. [D7.]
The dollar rose against most major currencies despite continued dollar-selling by central banks. [D16.] World coffee prices dropped after Brazil said it saw no chance of reviving an international agreement to support prices. [D16.]
 
Technology
Using mirrors to gather solar energy is being expanded in the California desert northeast of Los Angeles. [D9.]
Twelve vendors have formed a consortium to set standards for testing work stations. [D9.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
The potential harm of leveraged buyouts in the airline industry may be exaggerated. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Stocks of independent banks in California are gaining attention after long going unnoticed. Market Place. [D10.]
Creation of another television network is being studied by large marketing companies. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (53%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (87%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); TAX LAW (75%); APPROVALS (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); LIQUIDATIONS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); MERGERS (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (69%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); COFFEE (66%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (63%); STRIKES (62%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%); 



122 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Senate Unit Approves I.R.A. Plan

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Wednesday, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The Senate Finance Committee approved early today a Democratic plan that would restore tax deductions for contributions to individual retirement accounts for all taxpayers, after a Republican measure to reduce the capital gains tax rate for individual and corporate taxpayers lost on a tie vote.
Ten Democrats opposed the tax cut. Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma was the only Democrat to join the panel's nine Republicans in supporting it.
But the vote does end the Senate's debate on taxes, which will now shift to the Senate floor. There, Republicans and a substantial number of Democrats who favor a capital gains rate cut, will have to muster 60 votes, rather than a simple majority, to put their proposals before the full Senate. 
 
House Backing Last Week
Last week, the House approved a two-year reduction in the capital gains tax rate. But Senators of both parties object to the temporary cut, saying it was economically unsound.
Earlier in its session, the panel agreed on Tuesday afternoon to a 50 percent increase in the amount that 15 million Social Security recipients ages 65 to 70 could earn without having their benefits reduced.
On the capital gains issue, Republicans on the Finance Committee had hoped to amend the bill to include a permanent reduction rate for individual and corporate taxpayers. Their plan would also reward investors and companies that hold their assets for a long period.
After a day of scrambling, the Republican leaders acknowledged before the vote that they remained one shy of the 11 needed for passage in the committee. Throughout the day, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, and the White House budget director, Richard G. Darman, met with Republican leaders to plot strategy.
 
Plans to Continue Battle
They laid plans to carry their fight to the Senate floor later this week. The proponents of the tax cut were optimistic that if they could get their plan on the Senate floor, they could prevail.
A reduction in the capital gains tax rate enjoys strong support among most Republicans and many Democrats, and its proponents said they believed they would succeed on the Senate floor. That plan depends on assurances from Democratic leaders that the full Senate will have a chance to vote on reducing the gains tax.
Because the tax legislation is part of a larger deficit-reduction package, special parliamentary rules and procedures apply and may require proponents of a tax cut to gather 60 votes rather than a simple majority to have their plan considered on the floor.
But the debate on tax policy was the focus of the session. The Republican plan, which evolved into a search for support among conservative Democrats, would reduce the individual capital gains tax rate to 19.6 percent, from the current 28 percent or 33 percent, for investors who hold their assets at least six years. Investors who hold their assets for less time would receive proportionally smaller capital gains reductions. The reductions would apply to assets sold after Oct. 1.
For corporations, the plan would permit the computation of capital gains tax using an alternative rate of 27.9 percent for assets owned 8 to 10 years, amounting to what sponsors said was an 18 percent reduction from the current level.
To attract Democratic support, the Republican plan, sponsored by Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the senior Republican on the committee, would permit tax-free withdrawals from I.R.A.'s after age 59 1/2.
The Democratic plan adopted by the committee tonight was drafted by Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, the chairman, to forestall an outright cut in the capital gains rate.
Mr. Bentsen's plan would allow a 50 percent deduction for contributions to an I.R.A., beginning on Jan. 1, 1991, and permit penalty-free withdrawals for first-time home purchases and higher educaton expenses beginning on Jan. 1, 1990.
 
Plan to Raise Revenue
The I.R.A. proposal was part of a $5.4 billion revenue-raising package that the Finance Committee vote on. The package would also extend several popular tax breaks scheduled to expire at the end of this year. These include preferential tax treatment for employer-paid education benefits, research and development tax credits and tax breaks for mortgage revenue bonds.
Other provisions in the package would expand existing tax credits to help parents pay for child care, repeal a 1986 tax law provision that bars discrimination against lower-wage workers in employer-sponsored health benefit plans, and limit existing tax breaks for certain employee stock ownership plans as well as limiting tax refunds corporations can receive as a result as levereged buyouts or buybacks.
The panel's plan would allow Social Security recipients between 65 and 70 to earn up to $11,700 a year in 1990 without having their Social Security benefits reduced, and up to $14,520 in 1991 without a benefit reduction. Under current law, retirees in this age group can earn up to $9,360 in 1990 without loss of benefits; for each $3 in earnings above that cap, they lose $1 of benefits.
 
Reduction in 1991
Under the Finance Committee measure, benefits would be similarly reduced in 1990, but in 1991 retirees who earn between $14,520 and $19,520 would have their benefits reduced by $1 for each $4 in excess earnings. Retirees over the age of 70 receive full benefits regardless of their earnings, and this would not be changed.
In another important change, the Finance Committee agreed to make the Social Security Administration an independent agency that would be headed by a Presidentially appointed administrator and advised by a board.
The Social Security Administration is now part of the Department of Health and Human Services, but a growing number of lawmakers contend that the agency would be more accountable and more attentive to the needs of the elderly if it was independent. Others contend that the Social Security trust fund should not be a part of the unified Federal budget, because its large surplus is used to mask the size of the Federal deficit.
 
'A Betrayal of the Trust'
''The Social Security trust fund surplus is rising at a rate of $1 billion a week, and it is being spent for general purposes, which is a betrayal of the trust,'' said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who is pushing for such a change. ''We will now have a person whose job it is to account for that surplus.''
The House of Representatives has also approved a measure increasing the Social Security earnings limit and making the Social Security Administration an independent agency, but its earnings limit is less generous than that in the Senate Finance Committee's plan, and if the full Senate approves the Finance Committee plan, the two measures will have to be reconciled in a conference committee. The Administration opposes making the Social Security Administration an independent agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (IRA); TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (95%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); TAX LAW (91%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F



123 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Airline Leverage: Who Loses?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
CAUGHT off guard by the airline industry's frenzied financial restructuring, Washington is scrambling to put on the brakes. Last week Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner succeeded in putting pressure on Northwest Airlines to rewrite its leveraged buyout agreement with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, halving KLM's equity stake and denying the foreign carrier a place on its board.
The United Airlines buyout, which is more dependent on capital from a foreign investor - British Airways - is under similar attack. Federal law prohibits foreign control of domestic airlines, and Secretary Skinner is asserting broad discretion in deciding what constitutes control. 
But while most of the tough talk has been about foreign influence, few analysts are worried that Europeans would substitute frogs' legs for chicken and peas on dinner trays or install bidets in lavatories. Nor is there much concern that such international alliances would diminish competition. To the contrary: opening the domestic market would dilute the power of the giant carriers, which have made American skies so unfriendly to start-ups.
Mr. Skinner's real worry, say many who sympathize with the Secretary's campaign, is financial leverage - the mountain of debt that managers must assume to pay off their stockholders.
Other industries may be able to cope with the problems created by debt. But airlines, it is argued, are different. Adding billions to the industry's interest costs will lead carriers to skimp on safety and slow spending on modernization. A deep recession might even drive some into bankruptcy, threatening the viability of the nation's transportation network.
But the closer one looks at the case against leverage, the less meets the eye. Perhaps airlines with little spare cash would be tempted to cut corners on maintenance or pilot training. However, it was American Airlines, the carrier with the deepest pockets, that suffered the most notable maintenance-related crash in Chicago in 1979. And it is Delta, a profitable, financially conservative carrier, that has had to live down well-publicized instances of pilot error, most recently in a crash in Dallas last year.
All major carriers, concludes Dan Kasper, an airline consultant at Harbridge House in Cambridge, are very safe. And there is simply no measurable relationship between money and safety.
A related concern, one reportedly much on Mr. Skinner's mind, is that cash-short airlines will fight to delay the retirement of noisy aircraft and lobby harder against new taxes needed to finance local airport expansion.
Airlines may well fight expensive infrastructure improvements, especially the sort that give competitors easier access to their turf. But it is not clear that leverage would influence their determination to resist. After all, costs that affect all airlines should be relatively easy to pass on to travelers in the form of higher ticket prices.
The bankruptcy issue is similarly murky. Airlines with big debts would certainly be more likely to run out of cash in a recession. But it probably would not affect travelers very much. Airlines are companies with high fixed costs that generally have little difficulty covering their operating costs. And since the liquidation value of their assets -planes, plus airport gates - would be depressed during a recession, creditors would have every incentive to keep the carriers flying.
These arguments suggest that the potential harm of leverage has been exaggerated. There may also be reason to believe there are benefits to be had from buyouts.
The reason the airline business is under the leverage gun, Mr. Kasper points out, is that airline stock prices have not reflected the explosive growth in the value of airline assets. Leveraged buyouts have proved the one way stockholders have to realize those values.
But perhaps the most persuasive point in favor of leveraged buyouts is their potential impact on competition. Over the last few years the major airlines have developed a variety of effective defenses against smaller carriers. Not least among those defenses is predatory pricing - the willingness to lose money on selected routes to drive out the small fry or deter their entry.
One likely effect of leverage is to make airlines think twice before going into the red to defend market share. The leveraged buyout at United might, for example, make it easier for upstarts America West and Alaska Airlines to challenge its West Coast dominance. And the mere threat of a leveraged buyout may help explain why Delta is not prepared to sacrifice short-term profits to drive weakling Eastern from Delta's fortress hub at Atlanta.
Secretary Skinner has declared war on leverage in order to preserve healthy competition in the airline industry. The result, ironically, may be to make the business safer for would-be monopolists.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 5, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day yesterday misstated part of a consent agreement between the Department of Transportation and Wings Holdings, the new owner of Northwest Airlines. Under its terms, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines will retain a seat on Northwest's board, not relinquish it. But that director must abstain from decisions involving ''sensitive competitive and international aviation matters.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRLINES (94%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (63%); TICKET SALES (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER SAMUEL KNOX 'SAMUEL K' SKINNER (92%); 



124 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY BRIEFS

 BODY:
* Airgas Inc., Radnor, Pa., a maker of gases, completed the sale of its Jackson Products Inc. unit to Jackson Acquisition Corp. for $70 million.
* British Aerospace Commercial Aircraft, a unit of British Aerospace P.L.C., said it had received seven orders for its new mid-sized, twin-engine business jet. Each jet is worth $54 million. 
* Businessland Inc.'s stock plunged $1.75 a share, to $10.125, yesterday on news that the San Jose, Calif., computer retailer had a worse-than-expected earnings outlook.
* Cadbury Schweppes P.L.C., London, said it would buy certain soft-drink brands and assets in Spain and Portugal for 45.25 million, or about $73 million.
* Control Data Corp., Minneapolis, completed the sale of its data-storage products unit, Imprimis Technology Inc., to Seagate Technology Inc., Scotts Valley, Calif., which makes disk drives for computer systems.
* EG & G Inc., Wellesley, Mass., a maker of laboratory and test instruments, said it received a six-year, $250 million contract from the National Science Foundation in a venture with a unit of Ashland Oil Inc., Ashland, Ky.
* First Financial Management Corp., Atlanta, said it would acquire the Microbilt Corp., Atlanta, a maker of computer hardware and software, through a stock swap.
* Hicks, Muse & Co., Dallas, an investment group, said it had reached an agreement to acquire five insurance companies from I.C.H. Corp., Louisville, Ky., for $495 million.
* Intel Corp., Santa Clara, Calif., said it planned to build a $825 million electronics plant in Ireland.
* Laidlaw Transportation Ltd., Burlington, Ontario, said it had acquired 12 companies in the waste service area and three school bus concerns and was awarded two transit contracts.
* Merck & Co., Rahway, N.J., offered to buy all shares of Britcair Ltd., a British medical products concern, for undisclosed terms.
* Neoax Inc., Stamford, Conn., said it sold its Superior Air Parts Inc. unit for $30 million to S P Acquisition Corp., a unit of HMA Investments.
* Outboard Marine Corp., Waukegan, Ill., agreed to sell its Lawn-Boy mower business to Toro Co. for $85 million.
* PWA Corp., Calgary, Alberta, an airline, said it would combine the operations of its Canadian Airlines International and Wardair Canada units into one unit.
* Unisys Corp., Blue Bell, Pa., said it planned to cut up to $500 million in costs, leading to a charge against third-quarter earnings.
* United International Holdings exercised an option from United Artists Communications Inc., Englewood, Colo., which owns movie theaters and cable television systems, to acquire certain assets. Terms were not disclosed.
* Warner-Lambert Co., Morris Plains, N.J., said it acquired the Italian pharmaceutical firm Pagni, which specializes in oral-care products. Terms were not disclosed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BA (LSE) (95%); ARG (NYSE) (93%); INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); PKI (NYSE) (83%); STX (NASDAQ) (83%); ASH (NYSE) (82%); MRK (PAR) (81%); MRK (NYSE) (81%); TTC (NYSE) (81%); EME (NYSE) (72%); ARB (NYSE) (70%); USY (LSE) (63%); UIS (SWX) (63%); UIS (NYSE) (63%); AC.A (TSX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS424690 OTHER CHEMICAL & ALLIED PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5169 CHEMICALS & ALLIED PRODUCTS, NEC (93%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (93%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS327215 GLASS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (91%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (83%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (83%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (83%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (82%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (82%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS561210 FACILITIES SUPPORT SERVICES (72%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (72%); SIC8744 FACILITIES SUPPORT MANAGEMENT SERVICES (72%); SIC1731 ELECTRICAL WORK (72%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (70%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (70%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (70%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (68%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (68%); SIC3519 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NEC (64%); SIC5075 WARM AIR HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (64%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (63%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (63%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); PORTUGAL (76%); SPAIN (56%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); COLORADO, USA (68%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); ALBERTA, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (75%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: BAE SYSTEMS PLC (95%); AIRGAS INC (93%); JACKSON PRODUCTS INC (91%); INTEL CORP (83%); PERKINELMER INC (83%); SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (83%); ASHLAND INC (82%); MERCK & CO INC (81%); TORO CO (81%); EMCOR GROUP INC (72%); CADBURY LTD (71%); ARBITRON INC (70%); CERIDIAN CORP (70%); MICROBILT CORP (68%); FIRST FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CORP (68%); HICKS MUSE & CO INC (67%); OUTBOARD MARINE CORP (64%); AIR PARTS INC (64%); UNISYS CORP (63%); BELL PA (63%); WARNER-LAMBERT CO (61%); CANADIAN AIRLINES INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%); AIR CANADA (52%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); AIRLINES (77%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (76%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (75%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); ORAL CARE PRODUCTS (73%); INSURANCE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); SOFT DRINKS (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (67%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (66%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (64%); FILM (63%); 



125 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Advanced 2.9% in August

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Orders to American factories for manufactured goods rose 2.9 percent in August, the Government said today. But analysts said a one-month increase from automobile orders belied weakness in the industrial sector.
The Commerce Department reported that orders for both durable and nondurable goods totaled a seasonally adjusted $237.2 billion after declining 2 percent in July, to $230.5 billion, the lowest level since last November. Orders rose six-tenths of 1 percent in June. 
The August gain was driven by the transportation sector, which rose 6.9 percent despite a decline in the aircraft component. Orders for automobiles posted a big increase because of end-of-the-model-year sales incentives.
 
'Temporary Phenomenon'
''But the auto sales were a temporary phenomenon,'' said Bruce Steinberg, senior economist at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets in New York.
''Basically, the industrial sector has slowed down,'' he said. ''American consumers are spending less. Exports are still strong, but they are falling down, too. Domestic capital spending is beginning to evaporate.''
He added the factory sector would continue to be ''quite sluggish'' for the rest of the year and into 1990.
John Hagens, an economist at the WEFA Group in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa., also sees the industrial sector continuing to slow, ''flip flopping'' from one month to the next.
The Commerce Department report showed orders for durable goods -''big ticket'' items expected to last more than three years - rose 3.9 percent in August, up from the 3.8 percent initially reported last week. Nondurable goods orders were up 1.8 percent.
In addition to transportation, the non-electrical machinery durable goods component, which includes computers, registered a gain, up 9.3 percent. But orders for electrical machinery fell 2.1 percent, mostly as a result of military communications equipment, while primary metals were off 1.8 percent.
In the influential category of non-military capital goods, a barometer of business investment plans, orders fell 10.1 percent in August after rising 5.9 percent in July.
Shipments of manufactured goods rose 5.6 percent, the sharpest increase in the current economic expansion, which began in 1982. Shipments had fallen 2.3 percent in July, the sharpest drop since March 1986.
Inventories rose three-tenths of 1 percent, the smallest increase in the last two years, but Mr. Steinberg attributed this more to recently improved inventory control than to increased demand.

GRAPHIC: Graph of manufacturers' total new orders from March '88-Aug. '89 (source: Commerce Department) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (56%); MER (NYSE) (56%); 8675 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SHIPMENTS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SALES & SELLING (69%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 



126 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Slip 0.4% After Surge in July

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
New-home sales fell four-tenths of 1 percent in August but remained above 750,000 for the second consecutive month, as buyers took advantage of lower interest rates, the Government reported today.
Analysts had forecast a steeper slide in August sales from a double-digit gain in July, the largest advance in three years. They said the pace could not be sustained but would remain healthy for the rest of the year. 
The Commerce Department said that new single-family homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted rate of 755,000 in August, a relatively small drop from July's revised rate of 758,000, which was up 16.1 percent from June.
The report indicated that new-home sales were stronger throughout the summer than previously thought. Not only was the July figure revised upward but so were the figures for May and June, both of which totaled 653,000 units.
''It appears that the new-home market is steaming along,'' said John A. Tuccillo, an economist at the National Association of Realtors. ''What is noteworthy about the August numbers is not that they have gone down, but that sales remained at an extremely high level.''
 
Lower Mortgage Rates Cited
The sales improvement was attributed by analysts to fixed-rate mortgages that dropped from an 11.22 percent peak in March to 9.81 percent at the end of August.
The lower rates also improved sales of existing homes, which, according to the realtors association, rose 3.3 percent in August, to 3.44 million units.
Mortgage rates, however, had climbed back up to 10.16 percent by last Friday, according to a survey by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and analysts said the increase would affect future sales.
Despite the recent surge, sales for the first eight months were down 2.7 percent from the comparable period in 1988 because of higher interest rates earlier in the year as the Federal Reserve tightened credit to slow inflation.
The Commerce Department report said the median price of a new home was $122,900 in August, up 5.9 percent from $116,000 in July. The median is the point where half of the homes sold for more and half for less. The average price of a new home rose 14.6 percent, to $162,300.
Sales of new homes in the Northeast, which jumped 50 percent, to 108,000 units, in July, slipped nine-tenths of 1 percent in August to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 107,000 units.
Sales in the Midwest were down 27.9 percent, to 93,000 units, after rising 26.7 percent, to 129,00 units, in July. Sales in the South rose 6.2 percent, to 310,000 units, and were up 6.6 percent in the West, to 244,000 units.

GRAPHIC: Graphs of prices of new homes from March '88-Aug. '89; new private homes sold from March '88-Aug. '89 (sorce: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (65%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES NEW HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); 



127 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
A Cheaper Road to Solar Power: It's Done With Mirrors

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
For years the quest for economical solar power has centered on photovoltaic cells that turn sunlight directly into electricity. The cost of the cells is so high, however, that their use has been limited.
But a more prosaic and less costly method of harnessing the sun, using mirrors to gather energy, is being expanded in the California desert northeast of Los Angeles. It now feeds 194 megawatts of power into Southern California Edison's distribution system, which is enough to serve 270,000 people.
With tax breaks those ''solar thermal'' plants make electricity at a price that competes with that of power made from oil or gas, and the cost appears likely to be competitive soon even without a subsidy. 
The system, commercialized by Luz International Ltd., makes large quantities of steam by using miles of curved, movable mirrors that focus the sun's heat on pipes filled with a liquid. The liquid is heated by the sun and then pumped through pipes immersed in water. That water is boiled into steam, which is fed through a turbine that turns a generator.
Only the method of generating the steam is different; the rest of the system is the same as an electric plant that gets its energy from burning oil, coal or gas or from splitting uranium atoms.
But making electricity from the sun's rays has several advantages over conventional means. The use of expensive, nonrenewable fossil fuels is greatly reduced, although a backup system is required for periods without sun. And emissions of toxic gases and gases contributing to the greenhouse effect are cut back.
Luz is an American company, based in Los Angeles, that has an Israeli subsidiary that makes the mirrors. It is named for the spot where Jacob dreamed he saw the angels ascending and descending a ladder. The company is already the largest generator of solar electricity in the United States.
Last year the company added 60 megawatts of solar thermal capacity, compared with world shipments of photovoltaic cells with a capacity of about 35 megawatts. Both numbers are modest - a large nuclear plant can generate 1,000 megawatts - but executives at Luz think their technology is much closer than photovoltaic cells to becoming popular in the electric-utility market.
The electric-utility grid is the prime use, in fact, for solar thermal stations. By contrast, photovoltaic cells are so costly that they are now practical only where grid power is not available. They were initially developed for the space program and are most familiar in pocket calculators. They have already established an important market niche at remote sites, for use in navigation buoys and mountaintop telecommunications repeater stations, for example.
While photovoltaic cells are still not cost-competitive with conventional power sources for bulk power generation, engineers and scientists at laboratories around the world are trying new ingredients to lower costs.
Larry L. Sherwood, director of the American Solar Energy Society, said: ''Photovoltaics clearly has the potential to come down in price. Semiconductor-type technology, just by its nature, tends to come down.''
Luz officials say their solar thermal installations are already cost-competitive with the expensive sources of electricity used at peak hours, producing power for about 8 cents a kilowatt-hour. Energy analysts say both solar technologies will have applications in replacing fossil fuels.
Luz has built its operations with the help of Federal and state tax credits, the last of which are scheduled to expire this year. But the company says the system will become commercially viable without subsidies. It has raised more than $750 million in capital from investors like Potomac Electric Power, Baltimore Gas and Electric and Prudential Insurance.
The Luz energy collection system is based on curved mirrors about six feet high, which concentrate the sun's rays to make them 80 times more powerful. These rays are focused on a black steel pipe filled with a heat-transfer fluid.
''It's no different from what you tried as a child, when you burned holes in a piece of paper with a lens,'' said Michael Lotker, a vice president of the company. It is considerably hotter, though. The heat-transfer fluid reaches 735 degrees Fahrenheit, which is about 200 degrees hotter than the water used to make steam in most nuclear plants. To hold in the heat, the pipe is surrounded in thermos bottle fashion by a glass tube and a vacuum.
The plant heats up less than an hour after dawn. As the sun moves across the sky, the motorized, shaft-mounted mirrors rotate to follow, keeping within a tenth of a degree of the sun's position.
Sunshine, even in the desert, is variable, but so is demand for electricity. In fact, in most of the United States the sun's heat is what determines the peak in electricity demand, because of the air-conditioning load. This allows Luz to provide power almost exactly when it is needed most.
Luz has added a refinement to cope with demand on cloudy days and after nightfall. It supplements the solar heat supply with a boiler fueled by natural gas.
To qualify for favorable power purchase terms under Federal law, a solar plant built by an independent power producer must get 75 percent of its heat from the sun. Luz uses natural gas for up to 25 percent, to assure steady output, but a utility that owned such a plant outright could use the natural gas portion without constraint, the company noted.
In this solar-fossil hybrid, the solar collectors could be thought of as a system for saving natural gas, or fuel oil, the other fossil fuel most often used for small plants that provide electricity to meet peak demand. Each square meter of solar collector will save about a barrel of oil, or 6,000 cubic feet of gas, each year for its 30-year life, Mr. Lotker said.
The fuel savings from a square meter of mirror would be about $600 over 30 years, assuming current oil prices of about $20 a barrel. One square meter gathers enough energy to light two lightbulbs of 100 watts each; an 80-megawatt plant requires 464,000 square meters, so the total fuel savings could be $278 million.
Whether such an investment compares favorably with other investments depends on the future price of oil and the price of money. Many analysts are predicting increases in gas prices soon, and over time, oil prices are also likely to rise.
The value of the technology may also be measured by how much importance society puts on reducing the output of carbon dioxide, the gas most linked to global warming.
When the system operates in only its solar mode, no carbon dioxide is emitted. Luz officials say the hybrid system produces 0.27 pound of carbon dioxide for every kilowatt generated, compared with 1.1 pounds for plants fueled solely with natural gas, 1.7 pounds for oil and 2 pounds for coal.
Nitrogen oxides, another pollutant, are 20 times lower than in a conventional gas-fired plant, the company says, and almost three times lower than in a gas plant with advanced pollution-control equipment.
Luz officials say the cost of land is not a big factor in solar economics. In the desert northeast of Los Angeles where Luz has 194 megawatts in operation and 80 under construction, ''there are thousands of square kilometers serving no useful purpose,'' Mr. Lotker said.
 
Following the Sun
 
Luz solar collectors track the sun's daily path across the sky. The collectors focus sunlight onto steel pipes mounted inside vacuum tubes. The pipes contain a heat-transfer fluid that is heated to 735 degrees Fahrenheit. This fluid is pumped through a conventional heat-exchange system to create steam to generate electricity.

GRAPHIC: Diagram; photo of miles of curved, movable mirrors at Kramer Junction, Calif which focus' the sun's heat on liquid-filled pipes to make steam to spin a power-generating turbine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: SCE (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY SOLAR ENERGY (95%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



128 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Banking 'Frenzy' Seizes California

BYLINE: By Lawrence M. Fisher

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
STOCKS of independent California banks that have previously gone without much notice are being bid up. The recent acquisition of four banks anticipates a shift in California state law that will allow banks in other states to enter California banking, beginning Jan. 1, 1991, either through acquisition or by opening offices, if that bank's home state has a reciprocal law.
Comerica Inc., an $11.5 billion Detroit-based bank holding company made the first move on Sept. 20, when it acquired the Plaza Commerce Bancorp of San Jose, Calif., for $117 million, or $16.50 a share. While this was the first out-of-state acquisition, Wells Fargo, California's third-largest bank, after Security Pacific and BankAmerica, has also been an active buyer of smaller institutions, including the Valley National Bank of Glendale, the Central Pacific Corporation of Bakersfield and the Torrey Pines Group of San Diego. 
These deals, all at premium prices, have not gone unnoticed, and virtually every remaining independent California bank is now trading at or near a 52-week high. Accordingly, some analysts recommend approaching the group with caution. But others say some of the small banks still represent buying opportunities because they will probably all be acquired within the next two years.
''Recent events appear to have touched off a feeding frenzy'' in independent California bank stocks, said Dan B. Williams, an analyst with Sutro & Company in San Francisco.
He notes that until recently, nearly all merger and acquisition activity involving California banks had been intrastate, ''either to strengthen the defenses of smaller banks, or alternately, to dress them up for future wooing by incoming banks, and in the cases of large banks headquartered here, to add to market share while opportunities exist.'' Most of these deals have had price-to-book value ratios in the 1.6 or 1.7 times range, he said.
But the Comerica and Wells purchases were at substantially higher valuations, Mr. Williams said. Plaza Commerce went for 3 times book; Valley National for 2.1 times; Central Pacific for 2.9 times, and Torrey Pines for 2.4, an average of just under 2.6 times book. While the remaining banks are priced high, there may be some good buys, Mr. Williams said, but he is making no specific recommendations.
Mr. Williams lists 11 independent California banks that could be acquisition candidates: City National, in Beverly Hills, with assets of $4.24 billion; Imperial Bancorp, in Los Angeles, with assets of $2.52 billion; WestAmerica Bancorp, in San Rafael, with assets of $1.29 billion; Pacific Western Bancshares, in San Jose, with assets of $1.06 billion; Metrobank, in Los Angeles, with assets of $835 million; First National, in San Diego, with assets of $506 million; La Jolla Bancorp, with assets of $487 million; Lincoln Bancorp, in Encino, with assets of $396 million; Napa Valley Bancorp, in Napa, with assets of $465 million; Silicon Valley Bancorp, in San Jose, with assets of $322 million, and Mission Valley Bancorp, in Mission Viejo, with assets of $254 million.
Michael Abrahams, a banking analyst with Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards in Los Angeles, said only five publicly held independents of any size were yet to be acquired. ''The Japanese, Wells Fargo and Security Pacific have bought them all in anticipation of the state opening up,'' he said. Of the independents remaining, ''there is a wide discrepancy in quality,'' he said.
But ''as long as the economy holds up, these are all going to get taken out,'' Mr. Abrahams added. He said the United States has 14,000 banks to England's six, and California alone has 450, so ''we are going to see a big shrinkage.'' As investments, he favors Pacific Western Bancshares, which closed yesterday off 25 cents, at $11.875, or about 2.14 times book, and the Imperial Bancorp, which closed yesterday up 25 cents, at $25.25, or about 1.76 times book.
Among those advising caution is Donald K. Crowley of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in San Francisco, although he said that the valuation of the banks acquired so far clearly left room for growth in the prices of those remaining.
''There's no question but that the medium-sized California banks have benefited tremendously -particularly in the last few months - from potential acquisition activity,'' Mr. Crowley said. But, he added that ''someone looking at this group should probably go into it with the idea that they like the company, the individual bank and its management, so that if it doesn't get acquired, they are still comfortable with the stock.''
Since the most active buyers have been ''California banks doing fill-in acquisitions or pre-emptive strikes,'' Mr. Crowley said, it ''helps to know where the holes are in existing California banks.''
For example, Wells Fargo is strong in Northern California, so it is primarily looking in Southern California; Security Pacific is in Southern California, so it needs to expand in the San Francisco Bay area and Sacramento. ''In San Diego, the savings and loans are much stronger than the commercial banks, so they have to be looked at as acquisition candidates as well,'' Mr. Crowley said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); FRME (NASDAQ) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); WB1 (FRA) (61%); WABC (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (94%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FIRST MERCHANTS CORP (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); TD BANK NA (71%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (66%); WESTAMERICA BANCORP (61%); BRADFORD BANCORP INC (60%); PACIFIC WESTERN BANK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS (CORPORATE) COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ACQUISITIONS (89%); MERGERS (79%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (79%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M WELLS FARGO & CO (55%); 



129 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
Aztar Sweetens 'Junk' Offer To Attract Wary Investors

BYLINE: By ANISE C. WALLACE

 BODY:
Two weeks after the sharpest sell-off in its short history, the ''junk bond'' market continues to show signs of skittishness. Yesterday, investment bankers for the Aztar Corporation, the successor company to the Ramada Corporation, postponed and restructured the company's $400 million offering of new securities.
The move indicated that investors in the high-yield, high-risk market are growing unwilling to invest in new securities of highly leveraged companies unless the future stream of payments is a virtual certainty, analysts and dealers said.
''The market only appears willing to accept deals with current adequate cash flow,'' said Anne K. Lorsung, a junk bond analyst at McCarthy Crisanti & Maffei, a bond research firm in Montpelier, Vt. 
Yesterday morning, Aztar's investment bankers, Salomon Brothers Inc., announced that they were postponing the company's offering of mortgage bonds and notes to Friday or even next week. The bankers also altered the offering to give bond investors warrants that can be exchanged for 10 percent of the equity in the gaming company in the future.
''It's right that they give bond holders some of the upside,'' said Margaret Eagle, portfolio manager of the Fidelity High Income Fund, one of the largest junk bond mutual funds. Ms. Eagle declined to say whether she planned to buy any of the notes as a result of the change.
But some investors - nervous about the economic viability of these issuers - said they still were not attracted by the warrants, stock or other equity-like features being offered. They said that unless a company had the cash flow on hand to meet future debt payments - like Petrolane Inc. or Johnson Coca-Cola, both of which were considered successful ''blowout deals'' - investors may balk at buying some new issues.
Indeed, some investors like Wayne F. Wong, a managing director of the $3 billion bond department at Marinvest, the investment subsidiary of the Marine Midland Bank, said he believed prices in the junk market could drop even lower before becoming attractive enough to compensate for the risks.
Aside from the new issue market, secondary trading of most outstanding junk bonds continues to be light, said portfolio managers and dealers. ''Nobody's hitting a lot of bids,'' said Robert S. Dow, portfolio manager of the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund in New York.
Bonds of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc. continued to fall after it announced last week that it had sold its Sea World theme parks to the Anheuser-Busch Companies for $1.1 billion instead of the $1.7 billion expected by some analysts.
New junk bond issues that are coming on the market next week include a refinancing package of $500 million of securities of the Turner Broadcasting Company. Most analysts and portfolio managers said they expect the deal to be a success.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (94%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (94%); SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (80%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA SUSSEX CORP (94%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (80%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (69%); PETROLANE INC (65%); HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH INC (61%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); HSBC BANK USA NA (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: AZTAR CORP

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, ANISE C



130 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices of Treasury Issues Rise

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose in lethargic trading yesterday, helped by a rise in the dollar in overseas markets. The move in the dollar prompted some overseas buying, but dealers in New York said most domestic customers showed little interest once trading shifted to the United States.
''We have been at these price levels since early this morning,'' said David Green, manager of government bond trading at Chemical Bank. ''The last two days have been as slow as the worst days of summer. I don't know what it will take to get retail investors off the fence, but they show no signs of moving right now.'' 
 
Employment Numbers Awaited
Roberta D. Olsen, a fixed-income portfolio manager at the Banc One Asset Management Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, with $650 million under management, said, ''Nobody is going to want to get back into the Treasury market until after the employment numbers are released on Friday.'' He added that now people are doing business in specific sectors like municipals or mortgage-backed bonds, and are trading those until they get a clearer picture of where the economy is going.
Still, prices of some Treasury securities moved up by more than half a point, and gains were spread across the maturity spectrum.
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 99 19/32, up more than half a point, or more than $5 for each $1,000 face amount of securities, to yield 8.16 percent.
Secondary Treasury note issues also posted solid gains.
In late trading, the 8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 98 21/32, up 14/32, to yield 8.20 percent. And the 8 3/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 2/32, up 6/32, to yield 8.34 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates fell sharply.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.74 percent late yesterday, down 11 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates dipped by 5 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.83 percent. And one-year bills fell by 10 basis points, to an offered rate of 7.76 percent.
Yesterday's activity came as members of the Federal Reserve Board's policy-making Open Market Committee began two days of meetings in Washington.
Such sessions inevitably spark interest among credit market participants, but the consensus is widespread among analysts that for the time being the Fed governors will leave monetary policy unchanged.
 
No Change in Fed Policy
''The expectation of no change in Fed policy is so widespread that it's not worth talking about,'' said Brian J. Fabbri, chief economist and managing director at Midland Montagu Economics. ''The economic data is so mixed that the Fed itself is probably unsure about what to do.''
Mr. Fabbri said interest rates were likely to move lower, but not until data covering economic activity in the fourth quarter begin to come out later this year and early in 1990.
''Growth in the third quarter looks like it was about 3 percent,'' he said. ''You can make a good assumption that growth in the fourth quarter will be much less - around 1.5 percent. But we won't know that for sure for another three to six months.''
In other developments, underwriters from Shearson Lehman Hutton, a unit of the American Express, priced a $145 million high-yield offering from the Illinois Central Railroad.
The offering came on a day when Salomon Brothers once again postponed a $400 million offering from the Aztar Corporation, the successor company to the Ramada Corporation.
The 14 1/8 percent Illinois Central senior subordinated debentures were priced at $98.57, to yield 14 3/8 percent.
The issue, which is noncallable for five years, has a final maturity date of Oct. 1, 2001. It is rated B-2 by Moody's Investors Service and B-minus by the Standard & Poor's.
 
Secondary Market Issues
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate issues, dealers said prices of intermediate-term securities rose by a quarter to three-eighths of a point, while long-term bonds were up half a point.
''This is the first really good day we have had in a month or so,'' one corporate bond trader said.
In the secondary tax-exempt municipal bond market, traders said prices of most issues rose by about a quarter of a point in light trading.
Among the new municipal issues offered yesterday was a $90 million issue of New York State certificates of participation.
A bid from an investor group led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets won the issue, which consists of serial bonds with maturities from 1990 to 1996. Coupons on the certificates range from 6.30 percent on securities maturing in 1990 to 7 percent in 1996.
The issue is rated A by both Moody's and S.&P.

GRAPHIC: Graph of treasury yield curve (source: Technical Data International) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CHEMICAL BANK (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N DAVID GREEN (57%); 



131 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
In Midtown South, Space Eases a Bit

BYLINE: By Shawn G. Kennedy

 BODY:
THE effects of New York City's glut of office space and the economic slowdown may be catching up with the midtown south office district.
According to the Williams Real Estate Company, a brokerage and management company that tracks conditions in the office market, the percentage of space available increased to 12.33 percent from 11.77 percent in the first half of this year. This modest softening, the Williams statistics showed, had followed more than a year of steady tightening.
According to the company, 13.12 percent of the 68 million square feet of office space in the district was available during the first quarter of 1988. Midway through the year, that figure dropped to 12.49 percent, and it fell again, to 11.77 percent, by the end of the year. Williams defines midtown south as the area from 38th Street south to Astor Place and from Third Avenue west to Seventh Avenue. 
But even as the amount of space available climbed this year, so did rents. Williams's figures also show that owners were asking on average about 5 percent more in rents in the first half of 1989 than in 1988.
''The price gap between midtown south and other office areas, which propelled migration to the area, and in turn fueled absorption, is narrowing.'' Michael T. Cohen, managing director of Williams Real Estate, said. ''Some midtown tenants can realize substantial savings by coming to midtown south, but tenants relocating from downtown will find only a 2 or 3 percent difference in asking rents in prewar buildings now.''
When advertising agencies, accounting firms, architects and design companies started leaving midtown 10 years ago for the cheaper rents below 38th Street, some found space in the buildings along Madison, Park and Fifth Avenues for less than half the cost of new or renewal leases in midtown. In the early 1980's, for example, the cost of space in midtown ranged from $25 to $45 a square foot in prime locations, compared with the $15 to $20 a square foot owners were asking for space in renovated buildings in midtown south.
According to Williams, the average asking rent in midtown south is now $26.58 a square foot for all types of space, and $24.52 a foot for space in prewar buildings.
Norman Sturner, a principal of Murray Hill Properties, a real estate investment company that owns close to a million square feet in buildings below 34th Street, said that typically his company is renting space at $24 to $26 a foot today and the tenant ususally gets a $25-a-foot allowance for interior space construction and six months of free rent.
Mr. Cohen and other real estate professionals say the increase in asking rents in midtown south reflects, in part, the higher prices being paid for commercial properties in the district. Buildings that sold for $80 to $100 a square foot five or six years ago, Mr. Cohen said, have been resold recently for $125 to $150 a square foot.
''For the prices now being paid,'' he added, ''certain rents have to be achieved.''
Joseph P. McCluskey Jr., senior vice president wtih Helmsley Spear Inc., who is in charge of the company's Gramercy Park office, said that higher rents were also an indication of increased operating costs and additional renovation projects.
''Some buildings are going through second renovations in less than 10 years,'' he said. ''When rents in the area were in the high teens, landlords were spending about $15 a foot to improve the space. Now they are spending $25 a foot for things like replacing window air-conditioning units with central systems and building more stylish lobbies.''
Mr. McCloskey said that the firmness of the district's rents also reflected changes that had taken place in such midtown south neighborhoods as the Flatiron district and Park Avenue South. They have acquired a downtown chic, which makes them more desirable.
''There are more shops, restauants and services now,'' Mr. McCloskey said. ''Tenants are willing to pay more to be in these areas.''
Mr. Sturner of Murray Hill Properties said that while his company was still signing leases with companies moving from midtown, it was also making deals with tenants that were growing and relocating within the midtown south district.
An example is David Feldman & Associates, a freelance court reporting agency, which recently moved from 800 square feet on the 79th floor in the Empire State Building at 34th Street and Fifth Avenue to 5,500 square feet in a building owned by Murray Hill Properties at 240 Madison Avenue between 37th and 38th Streets. Mitchell Silvermintz, general manager of the firm, said it had taken space in the Madison Avenue building because of the neighborhood.
''We run a 24-hour office,'' he said. ''Fifth Avenue in the 30's can be fairly deserted at night.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT CO PLC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RELOCATIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G DAVID DAVIS (96%); 



132 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Hospital Strike Averted In New York City Area
After a night of frenzied bargaining, negotiators for 44 private hospitals and nursing homes in the New York City area and their employees reached agreement on a three-year contract, narrowly averting a strike by thousands of workers. Page B1. 
 
Machinists Strike Boeing
About 57,000 workers for the biggest manufacturer of commercial jets walked out over pay, halting work on $80 billion worth of planes. Page A26.
 
Bush Plans More Polish Aid
Under pressure from Democratic lawmakers to respond more aggressively to changes in Eastern Europe, the White House said President Bush would ask for $200 million more in economic aid for Poland. Page A11.
 
Canada to Cut Rail Service
Attacking one of the nation's most dear traditions, Ottawa will reduce passenger train service by more than 50 percent. Among the casualties will be the transcontinental train through the Rocky Mountains. Page D1.
 
Clark Slams Cubs; A's Win
Will Clark hit a grand slam and drove in 6 runs, a playoff record, to lead San Francisco to an 11-3 opening-game victory. In the American League playoff, Oakland beat Toronto, 6-3, to take a two-games-to-none lead in the four-of-seven series. Page B23.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (69%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); POLAND (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); OAKLAND A'S (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOSPITALS (90%); SPORTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); TRAINS (68%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%); 



133 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: U.S., IN DRUG DRIVE, TO REGULATE SHIFT OF FUNDS ABROAD

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
In an attempt to halt the extensive laundering of drug profits earned illegally in this country and sent abroad, the Bush Administration has decided to regulate international money transfers by American banks, the Treasury Department announced today.
Such transfers, mostly to Latin America, are not regulated now, but Treasury officials estimate that as much as $110 billion is laundered, or disguised, each year in the American banking system.
The Government also said it would open a financial crimes center next month in Arlington, Va., with computers to monitor information on money laundering to be supplied by more than half a dozen Federal agencies.
 
Getting Data Into Computers
At a Senate hearing today, the Administration said it would for the first time mandate record-keeping on international electronic transfers and require American banks to share that information with the Government. 
To reduce paper flow and get large amounts of data into Government computers quickly, new rules will also require large banks to use magnetic tapes when they file reports. The banks and other financial institutions are already required to file written reports to the Government on all domestic deposits of more than $10,000. But officials of the Drug Enforcement Administration say there are so many such deposits that the drug money goes undetected, buried in huge paper backlogs.
''It represents a substantial stride in the area of money laundering both domestically and internationally,'' said Salvatore R. Martoche, Assistant Treasury Secretary for enforcement, who is leading the regulation drive.
 
Seen as Step Forward
John F. Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee's Subcommittee on Terrorism, Narcotics and International Operations, agreed that the Treasury decision represented an important step forward, but he said much remained to be done to fight laundering effectively. Mr. Kerry is conducting the hearings on regulating banks.
The move came after Administration officials found that under current bank regulations the increasing volume of computerized electronic money transfers through American banks - now more than $1 trillion a day - had made it virtually impossible to trace narcotics profits.
And last week officials at the Office of National Drug Control Policy said the true dimensions of the problems were only now beginning to emerge. Among the laundering operations that have come to light in recent weeks are the thousands of small, unregulated money-transmitting businesses that take in drug money in the nation's inner cities, deposit it in legitimate banks and then order it transferred abroad electronically.
 
'Working With the Industry'
Treasury officials said the precise reporting provisions on international transfers had yet to be worked out. But one high official confirmed in an interview that the banks and clearing houses were now going to have to keep good records on the transfers and were going to have to share this information with the Government. ''We're working with the industry to get them to figure out ways'' to carry this out efficiently, he said.
And John Lee, chief executive of one of the nation's largest clearinghouses, Clearing House Interbank Payments System, said, ''We're happy to work with them.''
But some bank executives expressed concern that the regulations might become excessively burdensome. It has not been determined how much detail on each transfer will have to be recorded and filed with the Government.
 
'Totally Unproductive'
''If it turns out to be a wholesale blanket rule on filing, it would be totally unproductive,'' said Donald J. Reid, senior compliance officer at Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco. ''To the extent the rules would require us to target certain areas or banks, then it would enable authorities to make some conclusions which are meaningful.''
But the fact that the records must be kept and be available to the Government, at least in necessary cases, is regarded by law-enforcement officials as vital to solving the money laundering problem.
In the type of modern electronic money transfer, or wire transfer, that has become so difficult to monitor, a customer may instruct his personal computer to tell his bank's computer to take funds out of his account and send them to another account in a foreign bank. In most of these foreign transfers, no person talks to another, regardless of the amount.
The bank's computer then tells a banking clearinghouse - a kind of automated middleman that assists banks in switching funds from one to another - to send the customer's funds to the account abroad. $700 Billion a Day The clearinghouse acts as a middleman for about $700 billion in transfers each day, up by about 40 percent in the last two years.
Senator Kerry said the effectiveness of the new regulations ''remains to be seen,'' and he criticized the Administration for not pursuing negotiations with other countries as well as domestic banks to gain their cooperation in sharing information.
The Administration is required by law to report by next month on the progress of those negotiations, and officials said today that no one was working full time on the talks.
Mr. Kerry also said the Treasury Department's planned financial center ''was a good idea, but not broad enough in scope.''
Known as the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the $15 million center will be under the auspices of the Treasury Department. It is expected to open on Nov. 1, and its staff is planned to grow by the end of the year to include about 200 economists, analysts and law-enforcement personnel as well as representatives from more than half a dozen other agencies.
 
Enormous Data Bases
The center will integrate the enormous data bases that have been compiled by Customs, the Internal Revenue Service, the drug agency, the Federal Reserve and the State Department. It is also asking for computer data bases that have been compiled by states, and will share with state officials the Federal information it has stored.
In addition to studying patterns of illegal money flows and helping to develop enforcement stategies, the center is expected to create software and artificial intelligence programs. When combined with the huge amount of bank filings of customer transactions, these programs can be used to detect patterns of suspicious activity.
The creation of the center comes amid repeated charges that the enforcement of money laundering laws has been marred in recent years by battles among all the agencies and departments that have some authority in the area. Indeed, officials at the office of National Drug Control Policy concede that one of their big tasks is to coordinate the disorganized approach taken by the agencies.
In large part, those fights have been caused by the nature of the crime of money laundering. Big cases typically involve narcotics trafficking, banking violations, tax evasion and criminal prosecutions across national boundaries.
As a result, jurisdiction is shared by several agencies, like the drug agency, Customs, the I.R.S., the F.B.I., the Justice, State and Treasury departments, the Secret Service and the C.I.A. There is also considerable tension between Federal and state law-enforcement authorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY, DEPARTMENT OF THE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BANKS AND BANKING; ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER SYSTEMS (EFTS); MONEY LAUNDERING; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) MONEY LAUNDERING (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); CITY LIFE (60%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN JOHN KERRY (79%); 



134 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Senators Threaten Fight Over Gains Tax

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct 4

 BODY:
Senate Republicans threatened today to bring the Senate to a halt if Democrats invoked parliamentary rules to prevent the full Senate from voting on a proposal to reduce the capital gains tax rate.
''If we don't get it, then we're not going to be cooperating around here on anything,'' the Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, told reporters today.
Late Tuesday night, the Senate Finance Committee defeated, in a tie vote, a Republican plan for a permanent cut in the capital gains tax rate for individuals and corporations. Republicans had anticipated their defeat in the Finance Committee but believe they can win enough support from Democrats who favor a lower capital gains rate to prevail on the Senate floor.
 
Temporary Cut Called Unsound
Last week, the House approved a two-year reduction in the capital gains tax rate. But senators of both parties object to the temporary cut, saying it is economically unsound. 
As the Finance Committee session carried over into the early hours of this morning, the panel approved hundreds of millions of dollars in special tax incentives that would benefit cattle breeders, farmers, oil well drillers, petrochemical companies and tuxedo rental companies, among others.
The tax incentives, proposed by various senators in both parties, would cost the Treasury $435 million in 1990 and an estimated $3.5 billion in the next five years.
In rejecting the proposal to reduce the gains tax, the Finance Committee opted instead for a Democratic plan that would restore tax deductions for contributions to individual retirement accounts. That proposal is part of a $5.4 billion revenue-raising measure that will, in turn, become part of a larger Congressional package aimed at cutting the Federal budget deficit and avoiding automatic, across-the-board spending cuts. The package is expected to come before the Senate on Friday or Saturday.
Unlike other measures that come before the Senate, the deficit-reduction package is subject to special rules intended to limit amendments. If the rules are strictly enforced, proponents of reducing the gains tax rate would have to muster 60 votes, rather than a simple majority, to be able to amend the measure.
As he prepared to press for a full Senate vote on the gains tax, Mr. Dole said he would meet with Administration officials including the White House chief of staff, John H. Sununu, and the budget director, Richard G. Darman, to work out a strategy.
 
Amused by Complaints
Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the Finance Committee, predicted a tough floor battle over the capital gains issue. He said he was amused by Republican complaints about the procedural difficulties of bringing a tax cut bill to the floor.
''You can't just use the rules when they work in your favor,'' he said, adding that Mr. Dole was a master at using the rules to his party's advantage when Republicans controlled the Senate, from 1982 to 1986.
To complicate matters, the capital gains fight has become intertwined with a movement to repeal last year's catastrophic health insurance law. The combination of these two volatile issues and a crush of urgent budget legislation that must move through Congress in the next month has left some lawmakers fearful.
''What I'm afraid we have here is basically a free-for-all,'' said Senator David Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat who favors capital gains reduction but voted against the Republican plan in the Finance Committee in the hope that like-minded Democrats will come up with a better one. ''I don't see how we get around the need for 60 votes.'' He said a bidding war might emerge for votes, with special provisions offered to senators in return for votes.
 
Pet Provision Included
Mr. Pryor, whose committee vote was crucial to Mr. Bentsen in blocking the Republican capital gains cut plan, was successful in getting a pet provision into the panel's tax package. The provision would allow farmers to income average when calculating their tax liability. It would cost the Treasury $5 million in 1990 and $295 million over five years.
Senator Bentsen, who sponsored the I.R.A. proposal, has argued that his plan would provide greater benefits to the economy and to middle-income taxpayers than the capital gains tax cut. But a new Treasury study indicates that more than 80 percent of the total reduction in tax liability resulting from the I.R.A. plan would be for taxpayers who earn $50,000 a year or more. The Treasury study has not yet been made public.
The tax provisions adopted by the committee would raise $37.5 billion in revenues between 1990 and 1994. But only $9.5 billion of that amount would go toward deficit reduction in the next five years. The remaining $28 billion would be used to pay for the special tax incentives the panel adopted this morning, extensions of a variety of other tax incentives due to expire at the end of this year, a new program to assist parents with child-care expenses, expansion of Medicaid coverage and Mr. Bentsen's proposal to restore deductions for contributions to retirement accounts.
 
Measures Adopted
The provisions adopted by the Finance Committee include these:
* An amendment by Senator Thomas A. Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, that would allow an ethanol derivative known as ETBE to qualify for an existing tax credit on alcohol fuels. The revenue loss from this tax change would be $18 million in 1990 and $172 million over three years, when the tax incentive would expire. The benefit would go to a handful of small companies, primarily in the Middle West, that blend ETBE with ethanol. The Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, the country's largest producer of ethanol, lobbied heavily for the provision.
* An amendment by Senator David L. Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma and the lone member of his party to support the capital gains tax cut in the committee, that would allow farm cooperatives to choose how to categorize sales of their assets for tax purposes. The tax change, which would apply retroactively, would lose an estimated $40 million in revenue over five years.
* An amendment by Senator John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, that would allow a generous formula for calculating the minimum tax on gifts. The provision would be effective for one year only and would cost the Treasury $13 million.
* An amendment by Senator William V. Roth Jr., Republican of Delaware, that would change the method for computing a proposed excise tax on ozone-depleting chemicals. The proposed tax is a revenue-raising measure in both the Senate Finance Committee bill and a companion measure approved by the House Ways and Means Committee last month. The Du Pont Company, which is based in Delaware, is one of four major producers the chemicals affected by the tax. Finance Committee aides said the change sought by Mr. Roth appeared to be revenue neutral.
* An amendment by Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, that would allow corporations using the minimum tax formula to compute their tax liability to get the same dividends-received deduction that is available to corporations who use the regular tax formula. The change would benefit companies that own 20 percent to 80 percent of another company, and the revenue loss to the Treasury would be $15 million in 1990 and $90 million over five years.
* An amendment by Senators Dole and Boren that would allow cattle feeders to choose the most advantageous accounting method for tax treatment of deferred income. The change would cost the Treasury $18 million in 1990 and $80 million over five years.
* Another Dole-Boren amendment would allow owners of marginally producing oil and gas wells to take full deductions for their losses rather than the 50 percent available under current law. The change would cost the Treasury $20 million a year.
* An amendment by Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, and Senator John C. Danforth, Republican of Missouri, that would remove income restrictions on investors who want to claim a tax credit for passive losses on low-income housing rehablitation. The change would benefit investors with income of more than $250,000 a year. No immediate figures were available from the Finance Committee on the amendment's impact on revenue.
An amendment sought by the tuxedo rental industry and endorsed by the Treasury Department would allow companies that rent tuxedos to depreciate the clothing over two years rather than five. The change would cost the Treasury $29 million over five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (IRA) CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); LEGISLATION (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (79%); APPROVALS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); PETROCHEMICALS (66%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (58%); 



135 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: White House Adds $200 Million to Polish Aid Plan

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Under pressure from Democratic lawmakers to respond more aggressively to the changes in Eastern Europe, the White House announced today that President Bush would ask Congress for an additional $200 million in economic aid for Poland.
But the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said Poland must reach an understanding with the International Monetary Fund on a series of steps to revise its debt-ridden economy before it can get the additional aid. Warsaw is now negotiating an economic-stabilization package with the I.M.F., and an accord is expected by the end of the year.
''We, like the Polish Government, think that Poland's best chance for recovery rests with a sound I.M.F. program that will restore its credit worthiness and open the way for billions of dollars of new loans and credits,'' Mr. Fitzwater said of Poland's economy, which is reeling under about $40 billion in foreign debt and suffering from an inflation rate of nearly 1,000 percent. 
Saying that ''the dramatic changes in Poland over the past two months have lent new urgency'' to the Administration's commitment to assist Warsaw in its transition from Communism to a more pluralistic system, Mr. Fitzwater also announced that Mr. Bush had invited Poland's President, Wojciech Jaruzelski, a Communist, and Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, a Roman Catholic independent who supports Solidarity, to meet him in Washington.
The Administration's latest increase in Polish aid comes after a proposal for a $1.2 billion three-year assistance program for Poland and Hungary put forward by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and an $887.5 million three-year program put forward Tuesday by House Democrats. The Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, said the initiatives were needed because the Administration's offer of $219 million in various kinds of aid ''plainly fails to meet the challenge of supporting the Solidarity-led Government's efforts to make meaningful economic and political freedom available to all Polish citizens.''
It now appears that the Warsaw Government is increasingly benefiting from the fact that American policy toward Eastern Europe is becoming a highly partisan political issue, with a Democratically run Congress and a Republican White House engaged in something of a competition to see who can respond most effectively to the changes in Poland and Hungary.
On Tuesday, Senate Democratic leaders announced that they were inviting Lech Walesa, the Solidarity founder, to address a joint session of Congress.
Today, the White House invited the Polish President and Prime Minister.
On the Polish aid plan, Joseph S. Nye, professor of international relations at Harvard University, said the Democrats were saying to Mr. Bush that he ''cannot say 'Read my lips: No new taxes,' 'We cannot afford to do these things'' and at the same time pose as a leader.'' ''That's claiming leadership on the cheap, and the Democrats want to expose that,'' he said.
On his trip to Poland in July, Mr. Bush outlined a $119 million package of economic, technical and environmental assistance to Warsaw, which was then introducing liberalizing changes but was still a Communist Government.
In August, after the non-Communist Solidarity movement took a share of power, the White House announced that it would send Poland an additional $50 million in emergency food aid and, on Sept. 14, in the face of mounting pressure from Congress for more assistance, the Administration added another $50 million in food aid.
The $200 grant proposed today would be in addition to all of those measures.
Asked where the money would come from, Mr. Fitzwater said, ''Direct appropriations.''
Mr. Fitzwater said the $200 million the Administration was proposing for the fiscal year 1990, which began Sunday, would be in the form of an outright grant for Poland ''which would be the U.S. contribution to the $1 billion in assistance the Poles have requested'' from the 24 leading Western industrialized countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); HUNGARY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TRENDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INFLATION (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 



136 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Account of Plot: Close Call for Noriega

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Conspirators who tried to overthrow Gen. Antonio Manuel Noriega on Tuesday planned to trap him in his office and turn him over to United States authorities, a businessman with close ties to the Panamanian armed forces said today.
But the plot was foiled by bodyguards who opened fired with submachine guns when one of several soldiers waiting at the entrance of the general's office in army headquarters pulled a gun.
General Noriega's personal guards threw him to the floor and shielded him with their bodies, the businessman said, then shoved him down a corridor away from the shooting.
''It was very close,'' the businessman said, ''very, very close.'' 
The failed kidnapping set off a raging gunbattle between a force of about 200 anti-Noriega soldiers and hundreds of loyal forces that ended eight hours later.
The Government announced on television tonight that 10 soldiers were killed, 21 were wounded and 37 others taken prisoner. Five rebels, the Government said, took refuge on American bases. Telephones at the headquarters of the American military command here went unanswered this evening.
The Government said all the dead were rebels. Five civilians were reported among the wounded.
After the initial skirmish at General's Noriega's office, the general took cover in a bunker in the headquarters, according to American officials and Noriega supporters, and directed a counterattack that led to his freedom.
The Associated Press reported assertions by a Noriega aide, Lieut. Col. Arnulfo Castrejon, that the rebels captured the general and held him for hours but released him after loyal forces warned them that they would ''face the consequences'' if he was harmed.
Two opposition members who said they talked with soldiers who had been engaged in the battle said the rebels decided not to attack the bunker and lost the initiative.
 
Opposition Leaders in Hiding
Guillermo Endara and Ricardo Arias Calderon, leaders of the opposition to General Noriega, went into hiding shortly before the fighting started, according to their supporters and Noriega loyalists.
Mr. Endara, who had obtained the largest number of votes in the presidential election last May before the results were annulled by General Noriega, had been on a hunger strike for two weeks, protesting the appointment of Francisco Rodriguez as President by the Noriega-dominated National Assembly on Sept. 1. Mr. Arias, who was the candidate for first vice president on Mr. Endara's slate, had been leading a campaign to encourage Panamanians to withhold taxes and payment for electricity and water.
There were reports that two of the insurrectionists had taken refuge at Fort Clayton, a United States Army base on the edge of the capital.
Officials at the United States Southern Command headquarters in Panama as well as officials at the United States Embassy refused to discuss the attempt against General Noriega.
''We cannot let any press on the base,'' said a secretary at the Southern Command press office this morning, ''and we do not have anyone who can speak about the current crisis.''
 
Noriega Supporters Celebrate
The capital was quiet today, except for motorcades of what appeared to Government employees, blasting horns and waving flags.
Early this afternoon, as a motorcade rolled noisily past the army headquarters where soldiers were plastering bullet holes and applying fresh paint, General Noreiga, wearing a camouflage uniform, appeared at a barred window for a few minutes, grinning and alternately thrusting his right fist into the air and waving.
Later, with a band playing salsa music in the courtyard of the headquarters, he climbed up on an iron fence to shake hands with well-wishers who crowded the sidewalk during a tropical downpour.
The sprawling city of gleaming, oceanfront skyscrapers and small wood and brick houses ticked along as it does most days, with restaurants and shopping centers bustling, until early evening when an 8 P.M. curfew imposed on Tuesday went into effect. The American bases here remained on alert and military people and civilians were advised to avoid travel into the capital.
United States officials in Washington have acknowledged that they knew two days in advance that the move against General Noriega was coming, but they have insisted that they had nothing to do with it.
American officials here confirmed Panamanian charges that American troops blocked key roads between the besieged headquarters and other loyal Noriega units. But the Americans said the intention was not to interfere with troop movements but to protect ''United States lives and property'' at installations along the blocked roads.
The Americans also confirmed reports that American combat helicopters had circled over the army headquarters during the fighting, but they said they were merely observing the action. Every few minutes this afternoon, American Blackhawk helicopters swept over the warehouses and rickety houses flanking the army headquarters, but took care to avoid flying over the installation itself.
 
U.S. Inaction Is Criticized
Americans and Panamanians said in interviews that they were surprised that the United States did not send troops to help the rebels as the battle dragged on and it became clear that they might fail.
''The Panamanians expected a lot from the United States,'' a Panamanian office secretary said. ''We want to get rid of Noriega. But now people are starting to believe that we are never going to get any help from the U.S.''
There is widespread dissatisfaction with General Noriega's authoritarian rule and the sharp decline in the economy resulting from American sanctions against Panama. But during the fighting Panamanians refrained from going into the streets to demonstrate support for the rebels.
''We were waiting to see what happened,'' one woman said. ''We were all afraid we would get beaten and go to jail. There's no justice in this place.''
Some Americans who say they would like to see General Noriega ousted say they oppose risking American soldiers' lives while Panamanians remain safely on the sidelines.
''Why should Americans sacrifice, when the Panamanians are not pouring into the streets?'' one American official asked.
 
No Clear-Cut Choice
Ramon Franco, a lawyer and opposition figure, said he and many others did not rally in support of the rebels because they represented a faction of the military that was dissatisfied with General Noriega but did not hold the promise of restoring democracy.
If the rebels had won, Mr. Franco asked, ''What was I going to celebrate?''
In statements issued Tuesday while they briefly held the Government radio and television stations, the rebels variously said that they favored early elections and that they backed the recently appointed president, Mr. Rodriguez.
The businessman with close military ties, who said he had spoken to several officers who had been inside the headquarters defending General Noriega, said most of the rebels had been soldiers who were unhappy because they had been passed over for promotion. Their leaders, he said, had been driven mainly by personal ambition.
One American official said the plotters, members of the headquarters security force, apparently pinned their hopes solely on the capture of General Noriega and had not lined up support among other units, assuming that the General's backers would fall into step behind the victors.
''It was very badly planned,'' said an opposition supporter. ''You cannot have a coup d'etat against one military compound.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, who was saved by his bodyguards in the attempted coup Tuesday in Panama, greeting supporters yesterday at a rally outside his headquarters.; Panamanian soldiers in civilian clothes checking a car at a roadblock in Panama City. (Reuters); map of Panama showing location of Panamanian Military Headquarters (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (94%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); COUPS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FIREARMS (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); POLITICS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN)



137 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: STRAINED U.S. TIES REPORTED IN CHINA

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 4

 BODY:
A secret analysis prepared for the Chinese leadership says that China's relationship with the United States has deteriorated sharply and will continue to be rocked by new conflicts, but that President Bush is quietly trying to limit the damage.
The authors suggest that the United States has little leverage over China because Washington is afraid of driving China toward the Soviet Union or back into isolation. Those concerns, the analysis indicates, leave Beijing in a strong position and put the burden on Washington to repair the harm to Chinese-American relations.
The report also suggests that the White House is subordinating human rights to its friendship with Beijing. 
The analysis appears in the Sept. 13 issue of a weekly bulletin called Neican Xuanpian, or Internal Reference Selections. The 32-page publication, recent issues of which were obtained from a Chinese official, includes briefing materials about the domestic and international situation.
 
Analysis in Blunt Language
Unlike other internal publications, such as Reference News and the higher-level Reference Materials, the bulletin includes analyses that have not been published elsewhere. It is marked secret and is circulated only at very senior levels of the Communist Party and Government.
An article in the Sept. 20 issue of Internal Reference Selections discusses the attitudes of American business executives toward China, asserting that ''China remains attractive to American investors.''
Those analyses are written for the leaders, rather than by them, and so it is impossible to determine to what extent they reflect the present thinking of the Chinese leadership. But Chinese officials have long experience in telling their superiors what they would like to hear, and the essays do correspond -though in language far blunter than that used publicly - to the known positions of the Chinese Government.
The Sept. 13 article warns that China must be vigilant for any American policy changes on Taiwan and cautions that ''the two countries will confront each other frequently on human-rights controversies, which will be a major obstacle to the development of Sino-American relations.''
 
'Both Sides Have Lost Trust'
''Recent interference and criticism by the United States, especially one-sided sanctions, certainly have caused damage unprecedented since 1972, when Nixon came on his first visit,'' the authors contend. ''Politically, both sides have lost trust and become more suspicious of the other, which inevitably will lead to frequent conflicts and trouble.''
But the overall tone of the articles is positive, suggesting that the Chinese leadership may be basing its policy on a more optimistic view about China's international position than prevails in the West. Though most Westerners believe that international condemnation, economic sanctions and investor alarm after the violent suppression of the democracy movement in June have left China in a very difficult diplomatic and economic situation, the articles advise the leadership that it is the United States that is being forced to modify its position and repair the relationship with China.
The bulletin quotes the Bush Administration as saying it will balance its wish to help the democracy movement with the need to protect the Chinese-American relationship.
''However, more profound observation reveals that the Bush Administration is not putting absolutely equal weight on both stances but in fact tips toward the protection of Sino-American relations,'' the article says. ''The slant does not reflect any special affection for China; rather it is decided by the best interests of the American nation. To be specific, the United States has five fears in its relation to China:
U.S. Fears, as China Sees Them ''First, that China will be forced into isolationism and hostility toward the West. Second, that China will be pushed into the embrace of the Soviet Union, thus costing the United States the use of an important political and military power to check the Russians. Third, China might back away from its reform and open policies, thus destroying American efforts to encourage China to evolve peacefully to capitalism.
''Fourth, if China and the United States quarrel, then Japan, West Germany and South Korea will jump into China's huge market on an unprecedented scale and cause colossal damage to American businesses. Fifth, a divided and weak China would not have the power to check Japan economically and militarily, and that might complicate the process of maintaining peace and stability in the Asian-Pacific region.''
The article also said the United States was likely to resume military ties soon ''because the United States is anxious to retain cooperation on electronic monitoring stations that are of great value for military intelligence.'' The reference was to secret listening posts on Chinese territory - which both sides refuse to acknowledge -that intercept Soviet communications signals and process them.
President Bush, former President Richard M. Nixon and former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger all were portrayed as working to repair Chinese-American relations.
That favorable perception of Mr. Bush and his Administration may in part explain why China has toned down its criticisms of the United States in the last couple of months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (55%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (55%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



138 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: When Work Means Bring the Kids

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SYRACUSE, Sept. 29

 BODY:
It is 10 P.M. and the lights are low. The toys, the high chairs, the diapers, the bottles, the crayons and the face paint have been stored for the night. Danny Ross, 3 years old, Ryan Moulton, 5, and Ryan's brother Jake, 3, are relaxing on canvas cots watching ''Sesame Street'' on videotape. Kristyna Jaquin, 2, is sound asleep beside them.
They are denizens of the Little Eagles Child Care Center in the regional postal center in Syracuse. Little Eagles, which opened a year ago this month, is a new departure in the efforts of parents, employers and organized labor to meet the needs of two-earner families, particularly parents who work when others sleep. 
Little Eagles is always open by 6 A.M. and for three months last year, it was open for 24 hours. It will stay open round the clock as demand requires. While many centers are open 12 hours, Robert Lurie, the president of Resources for Child Care Management in Berkeley Heights, N.J., and other child care consultants said they knew of no other that is open 24 hours.
 
Two Cities Plan Similar Centers
Similar centers are planned for Buffalo and Phoenix.
The center is a warren of rooms including a nursery, a kitchen and two bathrooms, and it has play areas both indoors and outdoors. By midmorning every day except Sunday, it is usually filled with its maximum of 33 children and the six workers who care for them.
Many employers are open at odd hours: the Postal Service, police and fire departments, hospitals, supermarkets, service stations, factories that run two and three shifts, and casinos in Las Vegas and Atlantic City.
These employers have suffered more than others from the nationwide shortage of qualified workers.
Although millions of young mothers have already entered the work force, many others do not work regularly and constitute a pool of workers for the employers who can accommodate their needs. Audrey Freedman, a labor economist at the Conference Board in New York, says 81 percent of all people 20 to 64 years old work at least part of the year. About 53 percent of those who do not work are women at home with their children. To attract these women, 1,200 employers sponsor day care centers.
 
Digging Deeper for Workers
In Syracuse, the unemployment rate is 4 percent, a little more than a percentage point below the national average, and employers are feeling a need to dig deeper for workers. John W. Duchesne, the postmaster, says the day care center is important for recruiting new people and keeping those he has.
''I'm competing with the telephone company, the banks, Blue Cross, the state,'' he said. ''All those employers are going after the same employee. If you come to me for a job, I will pay you more, but you're going to come in at 5:30 or 10:30 with Tuesday and Thursday off. You'll work those odd hours, but you've got a good child care place.''
Of the 1,500 postal employees in the Syracuse area, 68 families who work here and at other nearby post offices use the center. The Postal Service and the American Postal Workers Union provided about $20,000 to help start the center. A board of 11 parents formally oversees it and contracts management to Kevin and Kathleen La Grow, who own a child care concern that runs three other centers with daytime hours.
 
Fee Is Low for the Area
The La Grows charge $68 a week for infants and $65 for older children, a fee that is low for Syracuse because the Postal Service provides the space and pays for utilities. Irregular users pay $3.75 an hour or $9 for five hours.
Ryan and Jake Moulton's mother, Gail, and Danny Ross's mother, Lauri, are machine clerks who start work at 5:30 P.M. and finish at 2 A.M. They bring their boys in with them, and their husbands pick the children up when they get out of work, usually around 10 P.M. Kristyna, whose mother works the same shift, usually leaves about midnight when her father comes.
Mrs. Ross said her mother had lived with the family and taken care of Danny for a while, but she left about the time the center opened.
The center's hours allowed Rick Moulton, who works at a drugstore warehouse, to move to the night shift. ''By working nights,'' Mrs. Moulton said, ''he could get a pay increase.''
No one has tried to quantify the benefits the center gives the Postal Service. ''I think it's definitely improved morale,'' said the director of human resources, Michael L. Brick, whose daughter also works at the post office and uses the center. Officials said absenteeism seemed to be down among employees who use the center, along with tardiness, sick leave and requests for schedule changes.
 
'Employees Are Happier'
Howard Evans, the president of the Postal Workers Union local, helped to persuade Washington to approve the center as a pilot project. ''The employees are happier, and it's made them a little bit more productive,'' he said.
When the center opened, it was not clear if the children of night workers would keep the same schedules as their parents, asleep by day and alert by night. The parents, it turned out, discourage this, in part to keep their children on their playmates' schedules.
But they are using the center in an unexpected way. Charlotte Tarwacki, the superintendent of the 10:30 P.M. to 7 A.M. shift, said: ''Some of the night moms were trying to deal with their kids at home during the day while trying to get some sleep. They'd call in and they'd be off sick.'' Since the center has opened, Mrs. Tarwacki said the mothers were leaving the children at the center for the day while they sleep.

GRAPHIC: Photo of The Little Eagles Child Care Center at the regional postal center in Syracuse, which is set up to operate round the clock. Ted Viger visited his grandaughter, Danielle Burkhart, left, and a friend, during a break. (NYT/Mike Okoniewski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL SERVICE, US

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SYRACUSE (NY)

SUBJECT: DAY CARE CENTERS; LABOR CHILD CARE (90%); BABY PRODUCTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (66%); POSTAL SERVICE (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T



139 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Strike Halts Work on $80 Billion in Planes

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The people who weld, rivet and fasten together airplanes for the Boeing Company, the maker of nearly 60 percent of the world's commercial jets, went on strike today, virtually shutting down production of $80 billion worth of aircraft.
The strike by 57,000 machinists, most of whom work at plants in the Seattle area, comes as Boeing is under pressure to turn out one new commercial jet every day, four times the pace of two years ago. Many workers, who have complained of exhaustion from seven-day work weeks and mandatory overtime, welcomed the strike as a needed rest.
With no new talks scheduled between management and leaders of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the strike could last several weeks, or even months, according to company and union officials and independent analysts. A long strike would further delay delivery of new planes to airlines anxious to restock an aging fleet. It would also swell the nation's trade deficit, since Boeing is the country's single biggest exporter and sells 30 percent of its aircraft abroad. 
Boeing has firm orders to build 1,603 planes, worth about $80 billion, in the next four to five years. To meet the production schedule, the company has been hiring new employees at a rate of 400 a month and working some trained machinists up to 200 hours of overtime every three months.
 
Gaps Can't Be Filled
The Boeing boom, 20 years after a bust led to layoffs of two-thirds of the company's work force, has fueled a job market economists say is the fastest-growing, by percentage, of any city in the nation. Last year, the Seattle area added 60,000 jobs, half linked to Boeing.
While Boeing officials said today that they were trying to continue production by using supervisors, they said most of the jobs done by machinists, some of which require Federal Aviation Administration certification, could not be done without the strikers.
''The supervisors alone cannot keep Boeing production going,'' said Bill Whitlow, an aerospace analyst with Dain Bosworth in Seattle. He said Boeing, which has promised to deliver 93 passenger planes to airliners by the end of the year, will only be able to work on a few planes, those which are nearly completed, during the strike.
The machinists make up less than half of Boeing's nationwide work force of 145,000, but they are the ones who actually assemble the airplanes, including the jumbo-sized 747 and the smaller 737. About 27,000 engineers, whose contract expires in two months, reported to work today, but they were not asked to do any assembly work, according to Boeing and union officials. Engineers generally do designing and testing and are not involved in production.
 
Record Profits Cited
Already among the highest paid industrial workers in the nation with average pay of $35,000 annually counting overtime, the Boeing machinists voted by an 85-to-15 percent margin Tuesday to reject a wage and bonus offer that would have given the typical worker $13,800 in additional income over three years.
Labor leaders pointed to the company's record profits of $614 million last year on sales of $17 billion and said the workers deserved a bigger share of the Boeing pie. While they received cost-of-living increases and annual bonuses, Boeing machinists have not had a general wage increase for six years.
The company offered 4 percent wage increase in the first year of a new contract, and 3 percent for the remaining two years, plus an 8 percent bonus in the first year and 3 percent in the next. They offered to bring the overtime down from a mandatory 200 hours a quarter to 160 hours a quarter. The standard work week is 40 hours.
The package, said a Boeing spokesman, Paul Binder, is ''substantial and generous.''
Although Boeing has experienced several years of record orders, the company has been under pressure from some shareholders to increase its profit margin.
 
Voted in Kingdome
Mr. Binder said Boeing would not suffer financially if the strike is short. Although production delays brought by the huge backlog of orders have reportedly cost Boeing millions of dollars in late penalties to airplane buyers, there are contract clauses which exempt the company from paying late fees because of a strike.
Mr. Binder also denied assertions by some analysts that Boeing welcomes a short strike because it gives the company ''a breather'' on supplying aircraft to its buyers.
Boeing workers who packed the Seattle Kingdome Tuesday for the strike vote, roundly booed any talk of settlement. They cheered when Justin Ostro, vice president of the machinists union, said, ''There is no good time to strike; only a right time to strike.''
The walkout began at 12:01 A.M. today with the start of the night shift at plants around Seattle, in Wichita, Kan., where Boeing employs 12,000 machinists, and in Portland, Ore., where the company has 1,700 workers.
 
Time With the Family
Workers who walked the picket line here in a cold drizzle seemed upbeat about the prospects of a successful strike. They said overtime pay has allowed many machinists to build up their savings. Others said they needed the time off, no matter what the issue.
''When my kids found out about the strike, they said, 'Oh, boy, we get to see Daddy,' '' said Bob Junka, a machinist who was walking a line at the plant in Renton, south of Seattle. ''I'm not so worried about what sort of paycheck I get at this point as I am about being able be spend any time with my family.''
Boeing officials have been recruiting workers from different parts of the country, running advertisements which promote the Puget Sound life style. At one point in the last year, the company brought in several hundred workers on loan from Lockheed.
Barbara Simkins, a machinist who voted in favor of the contract, said a strike of more than a month would hurt her and other workers who have saved money in preparation for a long layoff. The union has promised its members strike benefits of $100 a week. Each worker is expected to walk the picket line for about 4 hours every three weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%); INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS ASSN OF; BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; STRIKES STRIKES (92%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); AIRLINES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); WORK WEEK (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY



140 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Sensible Restraint on Panama

 BODY:
Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, Panama's military strongman for the last six years, had his closest call yet on Tuesday. While rival elements of his Panamanian Defense Forces shot it out, more than 10,000 U.S. military personnel stood minutes away, on full alert, but apparently ordered to stay out of the fight.
For what possible reasons could George Bush have passed up this chance to take decisive action to end the humiliating Noriega problem, this standing affront to his policies of combating drug lords and encouraging democratic rule? 
One answer is that it may not have been all that easy to topple the general even with direct U.S. military intervention. Another is that even if intervention had worked smoothly, there would have been serious complications and costs.
General Noriega's regime colludes with drug barons, lacks legitimacy and rules as a result of electoral fraud. The Panamanian military offers the best hope of ousting it, and the Bush Administration has sensibly encouraged officers to act.
But throwing U.S. forces directly into the revolt would have brought major risks. The operation could have run into damaging complications, like prolonged fighting with heavy civilian and military casualties. Such concerns led the Senate Intelligence Committee last year to question a C.I.A. plan for sponsoring just such a Panamanian coup.
It's not clear that Tuesday's coup leaders, including former loyalists of the regime, would necessarily have been a big improvement. Success could have left the U.S. committed to an unknown new strongman. Given the culture of the Panamanian military, he could have proved as dictatorial and drug-tainted as General Noriega, himself once a U.S. protege.
And make no mistake, the outcry from Latin America would have been substantial and negative. Latin American allies, some more vital to U.S. interests than Panama, would have been swept by the anti-Yanqui hysteria that invariably accompanies unilateral use of U.S. military force against any Latin republic.
General Noriega is a remarkable survivor who has withstood two attempted coups, electoral repudiation, U.S. drug indictments, prolonged American economic pressure and multilateral efforts to negotiate him out of power. Each time he seems to come back stronger.
Yet the challenges keep coming, with growing frequency. Tuesday's coup attempt was reportedly led by a major who rescued General Noriega from the previous military uprising 19 months ago.
The general cannot rest easy. He has done great damage to his own country, once a regional oasis of relative prosperity and peaceable politics and now an economic pariah and a police state. A dictator who tramples his people's interests for selfish and criminal reasons is permanently insecure.
General Noriega has firepower, money and Machiavellian skills. His ability to manipulate less sophisticated opponents has won him many victories. Now he's won another, but he's not home free. There may come a time when it makes sense to use U.S. troops in Panama, as Secretary of State Baker noted yesterday. But that ought to be a deliberate American decision, not a precipitous response to a problematic opportunity. Superpower armies aren't frontier posses. Critics, disappointed at being denied instant gratification, are wrong to attack the President for understanding the value of restraint.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES COUPS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (68%); INDICTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



141 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Thrifts Bailout Law Has Regulatory Teeth

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Contrary to ''Insure Deposits, Not Fear'' (editorial, Sept. 10), the recently passed savings and loan legislation is filled with sharply improved regulatory and oversight provisions.
Long before the Administration sent up its legislation last spring, I made it clear that the House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee would not move a bill without enhanced regulatory enforcement and new disclosure and reporting on insured institutions. That pledge was kept. 
One entire title of the bill was devoted to reworking enforcement powers for the regulatory agencies -including improved cease and desist authority, easier removal of officers, public disclosure of enforcement actions, imposition of stiff penalties for false reports of an institution's condition, mandatory submission of condition reports to auditors, protections and rewards for whistle blowers who reveal violations of banking laws, increased civil and money penalties, establishment of a special regional office of the Justice Department to pursue financial fraud and increased funds to investigate and prosecute banking crimes.
Other titles of the bill are honeycombed with audit, reporting and specific oversight efforts by both the executive and legislative branches. The General Accounting Office is given major new oversight authority.
When you describe enhancement of oversight and enforcement as ''distressingly absent from the new thrift bailout law,'' you are woefully short of the facts.
You also take issue with my suggestion that the $100,000 per account insurance be reviewed and possibly reduced. I have always supported adequate deposit insurance and will continue to do so.
With the average account insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation substantially under $10,000, there is room to debate the public purpose served by insurance limits of $100,000. Those with $100,000 in liquid assets are not ordinary depositors. The $100,000 insurance has been misused and abused. Money brokers and others have used deposit insurance to churn money throughout the financial system. In search of the highest interest rates, they have fueled many of the corrupt and worst-run institutions, knowing that the Federal Government would pay them off if anything went wrong. Breaking deposits into $100,000 units - with full Government protection - provides no barrier in this day of computers and wire transfers.
This brokering of volatile funds raised the cost of the savings and loan rescue and adds greatly to the future liability of the Federal Government in other financial institution failures.
The insurance limit was raised from $40,000 to $100,000 under mysterious circumstances in a 1980 House-Senate conference. The House Banking Committee did not hold one minute of hearings, nor did the matter come before the full House for a vote before the conference.
There is certainly no economic or public policy rationale for treating the $100,000 figure as some immutable magical level for deposit insurance.
 
(Rep.) HENRY B. GONZALEZ
Chairman, House Committee on
Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs
 Washington, Sept. 12, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON BANKING

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY BANKING LAW (92%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); AUDITS (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); WIRE TRANSFERS (72%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



142 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Baltics Report

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: RIGA, Soviet-Occupied Latvia

 BODY:
This weekend the congress of the Latvian Popular Front will meet to assert its intent to bring about a fully independent nation. No more veiled talk about ''economic sovereignty'' or confederation with the Soviet Union - the magic word is independence, the state of nationhood stolen from the Latvians 50 years ago in a pact between Stalin and Hitler.
Five weeks ago, Moscow's Central Committee issued an ominous warning to the Baltic States to stop all talk of separation lest their ''viability'' be destroyed. The Latvian Popular Front interpreted this as ''a readiness of the Soviet Government to resort to force and even to genocide.'' The Latvians called for the protective publicity of United Nations concern, but Secretary General Perez de Cuellar, in craven and unprincipled League of Nations tradition, ignored the plea. The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, followed up in a blast at ''revanchism,'' meaning ''a call for a return of territory taken by force.'' 
The Soviet intimidation has served to unify the bickering Baltic factions and steel their resolve. Most Latvian leaders profess no fear of the likelihood of Soviet tanks in their streets; moreover, they claim to hear mixed signals. Mikhail Gorbachev, meeting with Baltic representatives soon after the Central Committee warning, is reported to have assured them privately that it might be interesting to see if independence could serve as a model for Soviet perestroika.
Such talk may be whistling in the dark, but evidence exists that a Soviet hard line is far from unanimous. In Leningrad a few days ago, Aleksandr Fursenko, vice chairman of the Academy of Sciences and an outspoken Gorbachevite, at first told me that ''independence is not on the agenda,'' but added, ''if the Baltic States decide for political independence, they have earned that right.'' At least some Soviet reformers would rather have a string of small allies, similar to Finland, acting as a bridge to the West than face the need to repress sullenly resistant provinces.
But even granting that the Baltics are a special case, long recognized by the West as captive nations, won't this agitation for separation weaken Mr. Gorbachev and undermine his reforms? I put that squarely to Dainis Ivans, chairman of the Popular Front and an elected Latvian deputy in the Supreme Soviet: Won't the independence of the Baltics fan nationalist sentiment within the original dozen Soviet republics and lead to a crisis in the Ukraine? The 34-year-old editor, a soft-spoken man with a good chance of being the next president of a free Latvia, replied matter-of-factly: ''The Ukraine will rise no matter what happens in the Baltics.''
If his movement wins in national elections next spring, Mr. Ivans sees real, if not formal, independence in the Baltics within five years, achieved through parliamentarian means. Nothing inflammatory or provocative about that. What about the recent Central Committee warning from Moscow? ''There was panic in Moscow because the movement here is so peaceful and disciplined.''
What if hard-liners in the Kremlin insist that Mr. Gorbachev put on an economic squeeze? ''We have more free farmers than exist in all Russia,'' says the Latvian leader, ''and we put bread on Russian tables. All their electric trains and wagons are produced in Riga. If they boycott us, we will manage somehow, but they would hurt themselves. Gorbachev knows that in a super-controlled state, if you lose one economic part, you could cause a catastrophe.''
The people of the Baltics are reaching for the brass ring of freedom at their own gathering speed and in their own way. They know they can expect no military help from the West if Soviet tanks roll, but they count on the U.S. to make clear to Moscow the economic and political consequences to the Soviet Union if force is applied.
That's what we have told the Balts we are doing. An American diplomat called in Baltic supporters in Washington last week to tell them this: ''We have made it clear that if the Soviets crack down, it will be an end to everything - including arms talks and trade negotiations.'' Our diplomat added that ''the Soviets understand this at the highest level.''
At this critical moment, with the lives of thousands and the freedom of millions at stake, it is vital that the U.S. not waffle or mislead or treat Baltic freedom as a Soviet internal affair.
We support Baltic independence; we applaud the present peaceful approach; and we would consider any coercion by Moscow of these illegally subjugated people to be tantamount to a Soviet declaration of cold war III.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: LATVIA (96%); BALTIC STATES (95%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); BALTIC SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); POLITICS (70%); GENOCIDE (69%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM EDUARD AMVROSIYEVICH SHEVARDNADZE (56%); MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (55%); 



143 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
The Savimbi Smear

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
If you can't win a political argument on the merits, attack your opponent as a Communist. It is an old Washington tactic. But I have not seen it used as crudely in years as it has just been by Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah.
On Monday Senator Hatch wrote Attorney General Dick Thornburgh urging him to investigate Randall Robinson, director of the organization TransAfrica. Why? Because Mr. Robinson opposes American aid to Jonas Savimbi, the Angolan guerrilla leader, and favors U.S. recognition of the Government of Angola. 
''Mr. Robinson, by his own admission, is actively working to change a stated U.S. foreign policy,'' Senator Hatch said.
Senator Hatch emphasized that the Angolan Government is Marxist. He told the Attorney General: ''Mr. Robinson should not be permitted to propagate Marxist propaganda under the cover of academic independence.''
Mr. Robinson and TransAfrica led the 1986 campaign for U.S. economic sanctions against South Africa. Congress passed the legislation over President Reagan's veto.
Last week Mr. Robinson went to Angola. He gave President Jose Eduardo dos Santos an invitation from 36 members of Congress - 28 Democrats and 8 Republicans - to visit the United States.
''It is known that the Marxist regime financed Mr. Robinson's trip to Luanda,'' Senator Hatch wrote. In fact, the United Church of Christ paid for the trip. I have seen a copy of its check to TransAfrica, for ''transportation to Angola.''
A number of senators have agreed to host a coffee party or other meeting for President dos Santos, if he comes. They include Democrats Paul Simon of Illinois, Bill Bradley of New Jersey and Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, and Republican Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas.
''I don't understand the objection'' to a dos Santos visit, Senator Bradley said yesterday. ''We have this other guy [Savimbi] traipsing around here all the time. How about hearing the other side?
''If people are going to be investigated because they express their views, then we're in trouble.''
Senator Hatch or his staff evidently distributed copies of his letter soon after it was sent to the Attorney General. The next day someone from Human Events, a right-wing magazine, asked Mr. Robinson about it. His troubled reaction was, ''I certainly do not want to be painted as some kind of Communist.''
Even by the standards of extremist politics in this country, the Hatch letter is remarkable. I do not recall a senator charging that it is a criminal offense for an American to try to ''change a stated U.S. foreign policy.'' James Madison and the other Framers of the Constitution thought they were creating a system in which citizens would do exactly that.
Why would Orrin Hatch go so far? I think the real answer is that he and the right are desperately worried about loss of support for Jonas Savimbi.
In March a longtime admirer and biographer of Mr. Savimbi, Fred Bridgland, wrote a critical article for The Sunday Telegraph of London, a conservative paper. He raised serious charges of torture and other abuses.
In August an even more critical piece appeared in National Review, the American conservative magazine. Radek Sikorski, who had just visited Savimbi-held territory in Angola, spoke of Mr. Savimbi's ''despotic instincts'' and ''Leninist'' methods, and said: ''He is no more a democrat than Mao or Castro.''
The situation in southwestern Africa is ripe for peace. Cuban forces are leaving Angola, and South Africa is letting Namibia become independent, under terms brokered by the United States.
The Bush Administration is supporting efforts by 18 African heads of state to end the Angolan civil war. With President Mobutu of Zaire as mediator, they seemed to have arranged a cease-fire last June. But Mr. Savimbi denied that he had agreed to the terms they announced.
Mr. Savimbi is just starting another visit. He remains the darling of the right. But there are growing doubts about his attitude toward a negotiated settlement in Angola - and about the wisdom of an American policy that keeps sending arms to fuel a terrible war.
All that may explain Senator Hatch's mood, but it cannot excuse his letter. He is a smooth man, not suited for the mask of Joe McCarthy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ANGOLA (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSAFRICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSAFRICA (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANGOLA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); VETO (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); LAWYERS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); RELIGION (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; HATCH, ORRIN G (SEN); ROBINSON, RANDALL; SAVIMBI, JONAS ORRIN HATCH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%); 



144 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Use Force Against Noriega

BYLINE: By Elliott Abrams; Elliott Abrams was Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs in the Reagan Administration.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
For nearly two years, the United States has been locked into confrontation with Gen. Manuel Noriega. Panama's dictator was indicted by two U.S. grand juries and dismissed by Panama's President in early 1988. He is intensely unpopular in Panama, where his party lost the recent elections 3 to 1, and throughout Latin America, where his drug trafficking and human rights abuses have left him isolated and condemned by the region's democracies.
Twice in two years, groups in his own Panama Defense Forces have rebelled against him. The disparity in power between those backing General Noriega and those opposing him, including the U.S. Government, is enormous. 
Why has he survived? Largely, because he is willing to use his power while the U.S. has been unwilling to bring its power to bear against him.
During the Carter Administration, the abuses of Gen. Omar Torrijos and his then No. 2, Colonel Noriega, were overlooked, for the sole goal of Panama policy was to get the canal treaties ratified.
General Noriega came to power during the Reagan Administration. His increasingly unacceptable behavior led to distancing, pressure, indictment and then consideration of a variety of proposals for more vigorous action against him.
All these were dismissed under adamant pressure from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and its then Chairman, Adm. William J. Crowe Jr. The Joint Chiefs resisted any confrontation with General Noriega's troops, grossly exaggerating the military threat from a small force that was more adept at cowing unarmed demonstrators than facing real soldiers.
It was at this period, the spring of 1988, that discussions on policy options at sensitive White House meetings were leaked, and Panamanian harassment and abuse of U.S. soldiers was downplayed and sometimes covered up as part of the Pentagon's efforts to fight off U.S. military action.
Instead, President Reagan undertook rhetorical onslaughts against General Noriega. Now President Bush has done so, virtually inviting a coup in some of his public remarks.
In addition to speeches, both Administrations have maintained economic sanctions against Panama, which have badly hurt its economy. Both have sustained large and increasingly successful diplomatic efforts to isolate the regime.
The problem is that speeches, sanctions and votes by the Organization of American States do not interest General Noriega: Raw power does. He watches what we do, not what we or other hemispheric democracies say. He notes that we have been willing to do next to nothing to topple him. When power seemed to hang in the balance on Tuesday, we did not act.
From the facts thus far known publicly - and, judging from the reactions of the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Senator David Boren, the classified information as well - the U.S. missed an opportunity to topple General Noriega.
If it is the case that there was a standoff until he could summon reinforcements to combat dissident officers who tried to overthrow him, one wonders how difficult it might have been to block their arrival.
In recent months, there have been confrontations between U.S. troops and Panamanian soldiers. Not surprisingly, the Panamanians backed down each time in the face of superior U.S. training and firepower. Why would it have been different Tuesday?
The real issue is not the details of the attempted coup; perhaps it was doomed from the start, although this does not appear to be the case. The real question is one of policy.
Is it U.S. policy to act to remove General Noriega? Or is our policy limited to speeches and sanctions? Are we more concerned about the supposed problem of ''U.S. interventionism'' and the Latin reaction to it than about our interests in Panama?
As for drugs, consider the electric effect in Colombia if today General Noriega were in a U.S. prison awaiting trial on his two indictments. The Colombian Government is struggling against drug traffickers who consider themselves above the law and beyond reach, and have long worked hand in glove with General Noriega. His departure would hurt them; his defiant survival can only embolden them.
And what would the impact be on drug trafficking in Panama, if today Panama's Government were in the hands of honest officials? What would the reaction be in Nicaragua, where the Sandinistas face elections soon, if General Noriega's election fraud were followed by his political demise? How can the canal's future be guaranteed when Panama is in the hands of a drug-trafficking thug?
Who rules Panama ought to be a constitutional question; General Noriega's criminal regime, however, has made it a matter of raw power. The Panamanians want him out, but will need our help to achieve that goal. They've had our sanctions and our speeches, but never our assistance. To borrow a slogan from Theodore Roosevelt, who was profoundly involved in Panamanian affairs, it's time for the U.S. to speak more softly, but carry - and contemplate using -a bigger stick.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (98%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); COUPS (78%); POLITICS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (56%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (56%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ELLIOTT; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); DAN BOREN (51%); 



145 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Let Builder Buy Part of 61st St. Is Blocked

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Facing almost certain rejection by the New York City Planning Commission, the developers of a proposed luxury apartment tower on Amsterdam Avenue yesterday withdrew their request to buy part of West 61st Street to gain extra development rights for their skyscraper.
The effect of the withdrawal, which was announced at a hearing of the Planning Commission, would be to reduce the tower's size to 220,000 square feet from 370,000. If an average apartment were 1,000 square feet, that would mean a loss of about 150 units. 
At issue is the northwest corner of Fordham University's Lincoln Center campus, a site bounded by Amsterdam Avenue, 62d Street and the stub end of 61st Street, a public cul-de-sac that cuts into the campus. Fordham wants to sell the site to Carol Management, a Kaskel family development concern, which would build the apartment building, to be called Alfred Court.
 
'Demapping' Action Opposed
The original proposal was for a structure 49 stories high. That size would have been made possible by the city's closing part of 61st Street - an action known as ''demapping'' - and selling the street to Fordham University, which in turn would have sold it to Carol Management. The company would have used the air rights but kept the cul-de-sac in use as a private way.
''I took a very dim view of that kind of action,'' Sylvia Deutsch, chairwoman of the Planning Commission, said yesterday. ''It would be very unfortunate and send the wrong signal. To demap a street to generate additional development rights and then continue to use it as a street - I was very doubtful that I could support that.''
A lawyer for Fordham and Carol Management, Victor Marrero of Brown & Wood, said the demapping request had been withdrawn ''in view of the lack of support'' among planning commissioners and staff members.
Even with the reduction in the tower's size, the proposal still faces strong opposition from neighborhood leaders on the Upper West Side. They said construction of a luxury apartment tower was never contemplated when the site was cleared in the 1950's as part of the urban renewal of Lincoln Square and then set aside for educational or charitable use until the 21st century.
 
University Sees Benefits
But officials of Fordham said the $16.5 million they would realize from the sale of the site would subsidize the cost of a new dormitory on the Lincoln Center campus.
''Through the sale,'' said the Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, president of Fordham, ''we will be able to finance the dormitory at a cost that will make it significantly more affordable. That is a very wise use of the resources available to the university.''
Opponents of the project include Community Board 7, the Coalition for a Livable West Side and several local elected officials - Representative Ted Weiss, State Senators Manfred Ohrenstein and Franz S. Leichter and Assemblyman Jerrold Nadler, all Democrats.
''It would be ironic,'' Mr. Weiss said in a statement read by an aide, ''if urban renewal swept away a high-density, low-income neighborhood with the promise of using the land for educational or charitable purposes, and instead succeeded in creating another high-density edifice providing no educational or charitable services.''
Dr. Brian J. Byrne, a vice president of Fordham, said that the university had informally explored selling the site to another educational institution but that no institution could afford to pay what a private developer would offer.
To accept anything less, he said, would not serve the students.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (58%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (93%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY; CAROL MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AMSTERDAM AVENUE (NYC); SIXTY-FIRST STREET (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LAWYERS (73%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W



146 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Seidman Admission On Bailout

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
A top Federal regulator confirmed today what private economists had been saying for some time: The $50 billion that Congress approved in August to liquidate and sell off hundreds of ailing savings and loan associations over three years could be inadequate to cover the losses at the institutions.
The testimony of L. William Seidman, the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, before the Senate Banking Committee raised the question of whether the Bush Administration would have to come back to Congress for a second bailout package.
''It is possible that $50 billion will prove to be an insufficient amount to deal with potential failures,'' Mr. Seidman said in testimony. He appeared with Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady to discuss the status of the bailout effort. 
 
A Glum Response
Mr. Seidman's admission provoked little surprise from at least one private financial consultant.
''So what else is new?'' asked Bert Ely of Alexandria, Va., who has predicted that as much as $70 billion would be needed for the effort.
At the same time today, other regulators acknowledged that last Friday night the Treasury Department blocked a transaction that would have injected $8 billion into five large savings institutions that the Resolution Trust Corporation, the agency created to resolve the problems of ailing financial institutions, was preparing to sell to investors before the 1989 fiscal year ended on Sept. 30.
Because of the Treasury's action, they said, Resolution Trust, which operates under the F.D.I.C., was unable to spend $20 billion by the end of its fiscal year, as mandated by the rescue legislation passed in August. Mr. Seidman testified today that he expected the deals to be completed by next week.
 
Shift in Budget Deficits
The regulators said that because of the delay, the Federal Government's budget deficit in 1990 would be $8 billion more, while its 1989 deficit would be $8 billion less. They added, however, that the change would not spur any automatic spending cuts under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law.
Government officials have been slow to agree that the money approved in August for the bailout is insufficient, primarily because it would be embarrassing, as well as politically risky, for the White House to have to return to the Congress in two years for more money.
Mr. Brady has maintained that $50 billion would be enough, and told the Senate Banking Committee today, ''I know of nothing that would change my view.''
The $50 billion is part of a $159 billion package budgeted for the bailout over 10 years, including $61 billion for agreements reached last year, $34 billion for institutions that become insolvent after 1992 and $24 billion in interest costs.
In his testimony today, Mr. Seidman seemed wary about creating new anxiety over the problem, but said that his projection of possible higher costs was based primarily Resolution Trust being likely to have to deal with more insolvent institutions than previously expected.
The agency now controls more than 280 savings institutions, with $112 billion in assets. But it could end up, he said, with as many as 600, with assets greater than $300 billion.
''The projections raise questions about the adequacy of the $50 billion in R.T.C. funding,'' Mr. Seidman told the committee. ''But it is really much too early to make a reliable new prediction of loss.''
 
Minimizing Tensions
Meanwhile, Mr. Seidman and Mr. Brady, who heads a Cabinet-level oversight board that sets policy for Resolution Trust, tried to assuage fears in Congress that tensions between the F.D.I.C. and the trust agency's oversight board were rising.
''No joint enterprise of any magnitude is without its healthy frictions, and ours is no exception,'' Mr. Brady said in his testimony. ''But over all, we have gotten off to an excellent start.''
Though the transaction that was blocked by the Treasury last Friday will have little budgetary effect, Government officials said today that it underscored the difficulty the F.D.I.C., an independent banking regulator, was having in obeying an oversight board controlled by the White House.
In preparing the five savings institutions for sale last week, Resolution Trust had wanted to lend them $8 billion and require them to invest the money in Government securities that the agency would hold as security.
But the Treasury's lawyers contended that such a transaction, in effect, took taxpayer money and invested it in Government securities, which is prohibited by law.
 
Lawyers in Disagreement
In his testimony today, Mr. Seidman said he was not told until late on Monday that the transactions had not been consummated and that the F.D.I.C.'s lawyers disagreed with the Treasury's about their illegality.
''How do you feel? Do you feel fully independent?'' Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., Democrat from Michigan, asked Mr. Seidman.
''We're not as independent as we used to be,'' Mr. Seidman responded. ''I keep telling my people, 'Remember the good old days.' ''
Mr. Seidman added, for example, that the Office of Management and Budget had asked to review his testimony, that Resolution Trust's operations had to be audited by six different agencies, and that, under the new regulatory structure, the F.D.I.C. did not feel as free to make judgment calls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (73%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; SEIDMAN, L WILLIAM (CHMN)



147 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 16.53, to New Peak, Paced by I.B.M.

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Led by the International Business Machines Corporation yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose to yet another historic high.
I.B.M., based in Armonk, N.Y., rose by 2 1/4, to 108 1/4. The company's chairman, John F. Akers, said yesterday that the company's recent announcement of lower-than-expected earnings would not affect I.B.M.'s long-term growth. More than three million I.B.M. shares changed hands, making it the New York Stock Exchange's second-most-active issue. 
That helped push the Dow up by 16.53 points, to 2,771.09. But the broader market did not show as much enthusiasm, as advancing issues on the Big Board outnumbered declining ones by 831 to 656.
By late afternoon, the Dow had risen by nearly 20 points beyond the 2,754.56 mark it set on Tuesday, when the average jumped by 40.84 points.
In the last hour, however, a wave of selling pushed the Dow down to about a 2-point gain for the day. But in the final 45 minutes, the buying of stocks and selling of futures bolstered it anew.
So far this week, the Dow has risen 78.08 points, its best three-day gain since Aug. 22-24, when it rose by 87.64 points.
Volume on the Big Board yesterday swelled to 194.6 million shares, from 182.6 million shares on Tuesday.
 
Surprising Investors
''Sell programs are seesawing the market, but the overall trend is towards buy programs,'' said Gene Jay Seagle, the chief technical analyst at Gruntal & Company. ''The breakout to new highs to close near the 2,800 level has caught most investors by surprise.''
In the broader markets yesterday, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose by 2.23 points, to 356.94, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index gained 1.14 points, to 197.98.
USX jumped by 2 1/2, to 38 3/4, on speculation that Carl C. Icahn, the New York investor who owns 11.4 percent of the company, was increasing his stake in the former United Steel Corporation. The stock of the company, based in Pittsburgh, was the New York Stock Exchange's most active, on an exceptionally heavy volume of 12.7 million shares. In many ways, one trader said ''USX was the story of the day.''
GTE climbed by 1 1/2, to 65 3/8, after analysts at Salomon Brothers Inc. reiterated their ''buy'' recommendations on the stock.
Among the active glamour stocks, General Electric rose by 3/8, to 58 7/8; Bristol-Myers edged up by 1/4, to 53 3/4, and American Telephone and Telegraph slipped by 1/4, to 44 3/4.
Hitachi fell by 3 1/2, to 105 1/4. The Japan-based company said it had filed a new lawsuit against Motorola Inc., charging the company, based in Schaumburg, Ill., with patent infringement on a semiconductor.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market-value index added 1.34 points, to 394.36, while in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index moved up by 2.04 points, to 479.32.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (94%); IBM (NYSE) (94%); IBM (LSE) (94%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); T (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (94%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (66%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (66%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); AT&T INC (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); TRENDS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (75%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H CARL ICAHN (78%); 



148 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Mixed as Traders Await Move by Bundesbank

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed against major currencies in fairly quiet trading yesterday with traders cautious ahead of today's meeting of West Germany's central bank.
Many economists and foreign currency dealers predicted that the Bundesbank would raise its discount rate, now 5 percent, and its Lombard rate, now 7 percent, at its regular biweekly meeting. The rate increase, expected to be at least a half-point, would be aimed at pushing the dollar lower or keeping it at its current level. 
''All eyes are watching the Bundesbank,'' said Ronald Holzer, chief currency broker for Harris Trust and Company in Chicago.
A rate increase by West Germany would be the latest step in a concerted effort by the Group of Seven nations to keep the dollar in check since their finance ministers met more than a week ago.
Until now, the Group of Seven, composed of the United States, West Germany, Japan, Britain, France, Canada and Italy, has limited its actions to the selling of dollars and buying of other currencies in the foreign-exchange market.
Higher West German interest rates would make mark-denominated assets more attractive than dollar holdings and would strengthen the mark against the dollar. If the Bundesbank decides to raise interest rates, other central banks will probably follow, analysts said.
In New York, the dollar traded at 141.48, up from 141.20 late Tuesday. And the pound was at $1.6020, down from $1.6045 late Tuesday.
 
Late New York Rates
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates, included: 1.8815 West German marks, down from 1.8865; 1.6290 Swiss francs, down from 1.6350; 1.17475 Canadian dollars, down from 1.17495; 6.3825 French francs, down from 6.4000, and 1,376.75 Italian lire, down from 1,379.65.
Gold prices were up sligthly. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery closed at $367 an ounce, up from $366.30 on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (67%); 



149 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Inch Down in Slow Day

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds inched lower in slow, featureless trading yesterday.
Traders said they were encouraged that prices remained fairly firm in spite of a drop in the dollar.
''One of the surprising elements of the day was that the dollar went down a little bit but the market didn't skip a beat,'' one government bond trader said. ''That is a pretty constructive sign about how investors view the market.'' 
Credit market participants said that conditions might become more volatile today, particularly if West Germany's central bank does not raise interest rates, as many economists and market participants expect. It is thought that an increase in interest rates by the Bundesbank would help hold the dollar at its current level or push it lower.
 
'Trading Off the Dollar'
''Our market has been trading off the dollar, and if the Bundesbank doesn't do anything the dollar will go up quite a bit, even if central banks intervene to push it down,'' the trader said.
Nicholas Sargen, director of bond market research at Salomon Brothers Inc., said, ''The Bundesbank has surprised the market in the past by the timing of their moves, but I would be very surprised if they didn't raise the Lombard and discount rates by at least half a percentage point on Thursday.''
A move of that magnitude, which would push the Lombard rate to 7 1/2 percent, is already reflected in bond prices here, Mr. Sargen said.
But ''if they raised the rate by a full percentage point, that could trigger a selloff in the dollar'' and put upward pressure on interest rates in the United States, he added. 30-Year Issue at 8.16% Trading in the secondary market for Treasury securities remained light. By late in the day, the closely watched 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 99 18/32, down 2/32, to yield 8.16 percent.
Among secondary note issues, the 8 percent 10-year Treasury notes were offered at 98 5/8, down 1/32, to yield 8.20 percent. And the 8 3/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 100, down 2/32, to yield 8 3/8 percent.
Late yesterday, the Treasury announced it will sell $7.5 billion of new seven-year notes on Oct. 11.
In when-issued trading after the announcement, the notes were offered at a price to yield 8.24 percent.
 
Modest Rise in Short-Term Rates
Meanwhile, short-term Treasury bill rates rose modestly.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.77 percent, up 3 basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month rates rose 4 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.86 percent. And one-year bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.84 percent, up 2 basis points.
In other developments, concerns were voiced in Washington yesterday that more than the $50 billion Congress has already appropriated might be needed to rescue the nation's crippled savings and loan industry.
In testimony before Congress, L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, said that ''it is possible'' that the $50 billion would prove an ''insufficient amount to deal with the potential failures.''
There was little market reaction to Mr. Seidman's comments, but analysts viewed his statement as potentially ominous.
 
Cost Put at $150 Billion
''Keeping in mind that this is the first hearing since Congress passed the thrift legislation in early August, officials are already predicting the need for more money,'' said Maria Fiorini Ramirez, a managing director at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. ''It's not too hard to read between the lines that it will take at least three times that amount, or $150 billion, before all is said and done.''
Market participants are still waiting for the Resolution Funding Corporation, the entity set up to finance the savings and loan bailout, to announce its financing intentions. Several billion dollars worth of Refcorp bonds are expected to be sold at some point in the current quarter.
Elsewhere, activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was very light yesterday, with little or no change in prices, dealers said.
 
Joy Technologies' 'Junk Bonds'
In the high-yield market for ''junk bonds,'' Goldman, Sachs & Company acted as lead manager for a $120 million offering of resettable senior secured notes for Joy Technologies Inc.
The 13 percent notes, which mature May 15, 1996, were priced at par, or 100. The issue is rated Ba-2 by Moody's Investors Service and B by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds said that prices of most issues rose by a quarter-point in light trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC (68%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



150 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Goals of Fed Called Fulfilled

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Martha R. Seger, a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, said yesterday that the central bank had achieved a hoped-for ''soft landing'' in the nation's economy and that inflation was not a significant threat.
''Inflation should continue to be reasonably well contained through 1990 - barring any dramatic developments in food and energy markets or sharp moves in the dollar,'' she said in remarks prepared for delivery in New York yesterday. 
''There are many reasons to be pleased with our economic performance over the past year.''
 
She spoke at the 29th annual
Business Outlook Conference, sponsored by the Conference Board, a private business research group.
A ''soft landing'' is a term describing a condition where economic growth slows just enough to keep inflation in check but not enough to draw the country into a recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INFLATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); SPONSORSHIP (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: SEGER, MARTHA R



151 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Many Elderly Fear Loss of Program That Helps Pays Cost of Long Illness

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 4

 BODY:
As the House voted to kill a program intended to protect the elderly from ruinous medical bills, residents of several retirement homes here continued to express the fears that inspired the plan in the first place.
While few of these people were aware of particulars of the legislation, or indeed of the debate about it that has raged so loudly around the country for the last few months, nearly all said they would regret the demise of any measure that might help them weather an expensive illness.
And while some said they worried about the income tax surcharge that provoked furious opposition from some beneficiaries and led to the repeal movement, most focused on the even greater costs that medical emergencies would bring.
''None of us know what will happen to us tomorrow,'' said Alice Roland, a 79-year-old former teacher of psychiatric nursing. ''Expenses keep going up and we can't afford them.'' 
 
Too Much and Too Little
Many retired people said they did not have a clear understanding of the complicated law, and some of those who did said it would cost them too much and deliver too little. But advancing age and failing health seemed to have brought a shared sense of the need for health services and insurance that cut across economic and class lines.
Marion Dwyer, 83, a retired New York City policewoman who once greeted visitors on behalf of Mayor Fiorello La Guardia, said she could barely pay her day-to-day bills. With a program to protect the elderly from catastrophically high medical bills, she said, ''We would all feel a lot more secure about our futures.''
Lesley Keller, 85, a retired businessman who described himself as ''one of the more wealthy'' and who pays $4,200 a month for his penthouse room at the Ocean House retirement home here, said, ''I would be in favor of it because it would be a means of providing extra care for the needy.''
But the law, which was passed in June, drew a storm of protest from many elderly people because of the graduated tax that would place a greater burden on the better-off beneficiaries and because it did not satisfy all their health care needs.
 
'Our Incomes Are Fixed'
''I'm against it,'' said Charles Jacobsen, 84, a retired liquor distributor. ''Why should costs keep going up? They keep on raising everything, and our incomes are fixed.''
Reached by telephone in Dallas, Lina Mae Maddox, 65, a retired telephone company administrator, said she was one of those who had joined a letter-writing campaign against the law. Her name was provided by the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, which has been active in lobbying for repeal.
''It's most unfair for them to tax us that much money for not so much benefits,'' Mrs. Maddox said. ''If they had put long-term health care like nursing homes in, there would not have been so much reaction. But we don't feel we would get anything from it.''
She said many retired people like herself who already have private insurance as well as Medicare would end up subsidizing care for people on Medicaid and a growing number of people with AIDS who will consume a large part of the nation's health services.
 
'People Are Living Too Long'
But Bertha Lemel, an 88-year-old dancer and singer with an informal troupe called the Dancing Dolls, said repeal of the law would be a disgrace. ''We're the richest country in the world,'' she said. ''It's a joke that we can't care for our elderly.''
Cynthia Evans, 83, another member of the Dancing Dolls, said: ''The trouble is that people are living too long. The whole country is getting filled up with old people.''
Then, getting up to dance, she added, ''When you get to a certain age you don't really bother about things because there is nothing you can do about them.''
Joseph Levinson, 80, a former buyer for a department store, seemed to echo this sentiment when he said, ''I think younger and wiser people ought to tell us how to live and what to do.''
 
High Cost of Long Illnesses
Sylvia Rosenthal, a widow who is a neighbor of Mr. Levinson's, said: ''I'm going to be 90 in November, so how much longer do I have to go? Another year or two and I'll be gone.''
June Gatewood, the administrator at Ocean House, said, ''The big fear is cancer.''
Leonard Fox, 82, who ran a department store in Youngstown, Ohio, for 42 years, said older people feared ''getting hit hard with catastrophic illnesses that can break them for all they've got.''
At the Goergian, a nursing home where residents can watch the Pacific sunset from their front porch, Beulah Levine, 83, said she had sold a house she owned for 45 years to be able to afford retirement care. ''The little bit we do have, this nursing home deal will clean us all out,'' she said. ''Then if something happens, what we do have we won't have.''
 
Of Dignity and Changes
In the Westwood Plaza retirement home, where petitions opposing the law have been circulated, Morris Shapiro's golf clubs stand by the head of his bed, although it is some time since he has used them.
''All I know is, something ought to be done about people in this age bracket that really need it,'' he said. ''Why not help people to exit like gentlemen?''
Betty Hertz, who lives just down the hall from him, also talked of dignity and of the changes that come over people after they go into a retirement home to live out the rest of their lives.
''You spend a few months in here and you're a changed person,'' she said, looking out the window at the sunshine. ''What do you do? You watch TV and you take a walk. You lose your interest in life and you just wait for meals.
''A year ago I was younger. I looked younger. I acted younger. I drove a car. I wouldn't be sitting here at this time of the morning. I'd be doing something or I'd be getting ready to go out.''

GRAPHIC: photos of Marion Dwyer; Alice Ropen (NYT/Bart Bartholomew)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION ELDER LAW (90%); ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); AGING (89%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH



152 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Soviets Said to Double Cambodia Aid

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 5

 BODY:
The Soviet Union has sharply increased its military aid to the Cambodian Government in Phnom Penh this year, roughly doubling deliveries of arms and ammunition over 1988 levels, Asian diplomats and Cambodian rebel leaders say.
Between January and July, these officials say, 11 Soviet cargo ships delivered some 14,000 tons of military supplies to the Cambodian port of Kampong Saom, including 100 T-54 tanks, armored vehicles and heavy artillery. The Soviet Union also sent 16 MIG-21 fighters to bolster the air force of Prime Minister Hun Sen.
These officials, commenting as the debate continued in the General Assembly for the ninth day, say there was also a substantial delivery of small arms in September, adding that their information comes from the United States and their own intelligence efforts inside Cambodia. 
Some Asian diplomats say the Soviet effort appears intended to insure that Mr. Hun Sen retains control of Cambodia after last month's Vietnamese military withdrawal and is strong enough to resist the Khmer Rouge and the non-Communist opposition groups loyal to Prince Norodom Sihanouk.
 
An 'Afghan Solution'
This suggests, they argue, that Moscow may now foresee an ''Afghan solution'' in Cambodia, with Mr. Hun Sen following the example of President Najibullah of Afghanistan, and retaining power by force instead of seeking a compromise with the opposition.
According to this view, Hanoi and Moscow are now relying on worldwide mistrust of the Khmer Rouge, whose brutal regime caused the death of at least a million Cambodians before its overthrow by Vietnam in January 1979, to build support for a solution that would keep Mr. Hun Sen in effective control of Cambodia, perhaps in loose partnership with Prince Sihanouk.
Addressing the General Assembly, Vietnam's Deputy Foreign Minister, Nguyen Dy Nien, attacked the Khmer Rouge saying the key issue facing Cambodia today is to ''prevent the genocidal Pol Pot clique from kindling a civil war and re-establishing their genocidal rule in Cambodia.''
He assured the General Assembly that Vietnam has removed all its armed forces from Cambodia, saying ''from this rostrum I solemnly declare that from Sept. 27, 1989, there does not remain a single Vietnamese volunteer soldier in Cambodia - either armyman, adviser or military employee.''
 
Assertion Is Challenged
The Cambodian opposition groups and many southeast Asian nations challenge this assertion, accusing Vietnam of leaving thousands of soldiers disguised as militiamen and settlers.
This week the six-member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations introduced a draft resolution in the General Assembly that says the United Nations must verify the Vietnamese withdrawal before the international community can accept it.
The Indian Foreign Minister, Shri P. V. Narashima Rao, addressing the Assembly, also warned against a return to power of the Khmer Rouge, saying Cambodia must not fall victim again ''to the universally condemned genocidal policies and practices.''
 
Military Operations on Rise
Since Vietnam announced its withdrawal from Cambodia last month, rebel officials say the three loosely allied rebel forces, which are all armed by China, have stepped up their military operations in the northwest.
Concerning another tense region, the Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, painted a bleak picture of the prospects for further progress toward a lasting peace in the Persian Gulf. In his address, Mr. Aziz accused Iran of sabotaging Red Cross efforts to organize an exchange of the roughly 100,000 prisoners of war.
Other speakers who addressed the Assembly today were the Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister, Abdul Ghafar Baba; the head of the Dominican Republic delegation, Franklin Andrew Baron; and Foreign Ministers Benjamin Mkapa of Tanzania, Sid'Ahmen Ould Baba of Mauritania, Gareth Evans of Australia, Abdul Aziz al-Dali of Southern Yemen, Antoine Ndinga Oba of the Congo, Pedro de Castro Van Dunem of Angola and Shailendra Kumar Upadhyay of Nepal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (99%); ASIA (94%); VIET NAM (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); VIETNAM (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH EAST ASIAN BANK LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); AIR FORCES (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL HUN SEN (92%); NORODOM SIHANOUK (55%); 



153 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Nairobi Journal;
In a Land of the Censor, a Bold Magazine Endures

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Oct. 5

 BODY:
After the second issue of Gitobu Imanyara's monthly magazine appeared on the newsstands, with a bold title about human rights and a chilling graphic of barbed wire splashed across the cover, some friends in the security forces got in touch with the editor. Not a good idea, they warned. Dangerous copy, they said. ''I said I would try and find out what was dangerous in the magazine,'' Mr. Imanyara recalled, only slightly facetiously. ''But no one quite knew.'' In the meantime, the security people ferreted out the printer, who happened to be Asian, and told him he would be expelled from Kenya if he handled any more issues.
Fourteen issues and some sharp covers later, The Nairobi Law Monthly survives, an outspoken magazine in a political milieu where the press has become increasingly restricted. Mr. Imanyara, a lawyer turned journalist, manages to tell his readers - not only lawyers, diplomats and businessmen but ordinary Kenyans curious about their society - what others can't, or won't. 
In a nation that once boasted the most unfettered press in Africa, the retinue of press closings and restrictions has been long lately.
 
Church Magazine Banned
The magazine of the National Council of Churches in Kenya, was banned last year. More than five months ago, a lively weekly, The Financial Review, was shut down when its coverage of the economy and political issues irritated the Government. A rather innocuous magazine, Development Agenda, was prohibited in August after two issues, apparently because of its political connections.
Perhaps most ominous of all, The Nation, the largest selling and most comprehensive daily newspaper, established 28 years ago by the Aga Khan, was stopped in June by Parliament from covering Parliament. Legislators complained about ''subversive elements'' at the paper and how its training program with The St. Petersburg Times, in Florida, was tainting the paper.
Editors at The Nation used to resist calls from the office of President Daniel arap Moi requesting that articles be suppressed.
Since the banishment from the press gallery, the editors acquiesce, fearful that a consequence of publishing displeasing articles will mean a shutdown.
A free press is a rare species in most of Africa. In the neighboring Sudan, for example, a flourishing press -about a dozen dailies - was shut down after the military coup in June. The broadest points of view on Africa can often be found in magazines and newsletters printed in Europe, out of the way of the censors. But the recent crackdown in Kenya has disappointed people here because the country regards itself as a democracy.
 
A Pocket-Sized Office
Mr. Imanyara, a lithe, mild-mannered 36-year-old graduate of Nairobi University's law school, who puts out his magazine from a pocket-sized office with the help of only three others, has experienced his own problems.
The third issue of The Monthly featured a cover article on the release of a jailed human rights lawyer, Gibson Kamau Kuria (winner of the Robert F. Kennedy human rights award), and a prominent letter to the editor suggesting the Commissioner of Police should resign because of reported deaths of people in police custody.
''I was arrested and then released,'' Mr. Imanyara said. ''They said the magazine was spreading 'alarm and despondency among the wananchi' and giving a lot of prominence to dissidents and their sympathizers. I wrote a statement saying I was a lawyer and wouldn't accept being told what to print.'' Wananchi is Swahili for ''the people.''
Before turning to journalism, Mr. Imanyara attracted attention as a lawyer. He defended the employee accused of killing the conservationist Joy Adamson. He lost the case, but as he puts it now, won ''a lot of exposure.'' Several years later, he defended 120 members of the air force charged with treason in connection with a failed coup of 1982. Not surprisingly, he lost that case, too.
 
Jailed for 5 Years
By that time, his political activities, viewed as courageous by some but threatening by others, had earned him the ire of the Attorney General. He charged Mr. Imanyara on the basis of a complaint that a client of the lawyer's had filed with the Law Society but the society had dismissed as groundless.
Mr. Imanyara was jailed for five years - he spent two years in solitary after which he was released - in what was widely seen as a vendetta for having dared to defend the air force officers. In jail he laid plans for starting his law magazine.
While he has many criticisms of what he sees as abuses by and of the Kenyan judicial system, he also believes in its strengths. Each month he goes out of his way to point these out.
''Our bias is covering civil rights and human rights, but by selecting cases for publication we are able to educate people so they know there are judges who've acted favorably,'' he said, as he took a break from writing an assessment of the new Chief Justice for the next issue.
 
On Western Foundations
Mr. Imanyara's magazine, with its push for human rights, is just the kind of effort that Western foundations and agencies line up to endow. The calling cards of potential donors lie on top of his desk.
''I would not accept money from a U.S. foundation,'' he said. ''It would encourage us to be dependent. A lot of Kenyans leave too much to outsiders. I'd rather have 50,000 subscribers in the United States than $50,000 that might help us only in the short term.''
A case against Mr. Imanyara dealing with his second arrest over an issue of the magazine is still pending. In the meantime Mr. Imanyara's eye-catching, sell-out publication - 3,000 to 5,000 issues depending on the print run - has not been shuttered.
''They still haven't closed it and they can't,'' he said. ''They want to show the world we have a judiciary that functions.''
There is another reason, too, Mr. Imanyara said. He is well aware of the possibility that the Government may find the magazine useful. ''The Government can say: 'How can you say we have no freedom of the press when you are reading this magazine?' It's a contradiction, of course, to say we have freedom of the press, because we don't.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Gitobu Imanyara, the editor of The Nairobi Law Monthly has (NYT/Raymond Bonner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KENYA (99%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (94%); 

COMPANY: ST PETERSBURG TIMES (53%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN THE USA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NAIROBI LAW MONTHLY (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENYA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; CENSORSHIP; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS CENSORSHIP (90%); NEWSSTANDS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); POLITICS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); COUPS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); RELIGION (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; IMANYARA, GITOBU; N'GANGA, NJENGA



154 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Panama Opposition Figures Seized in Crackdown

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Armed men attacked opposition party headquarters tonight hours after Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega called for a crackdown on his opponents and urged Government employees to root out traitors in their ranks.
Anel Beliz, a spokesman for the opposition coalition, said that about a dozen members of the Liberal Party, including a doctor and a nurse, were seized shortly after 9 P.M. after a day of harassment by Government and paramilitary forces wearing civilian clothes.
''They were attacked with tear gas and a lot of violence,'' Mr. Beliz said in a telephone interview. ''They were taken away. We don't know where they are. They destroyed the facilities.'' 
 
Endara Reported Safe
There were unconfirmed reports that Guillermo Endara, the apparent winner of presidential elections last May that were annulled by General Noriega, was arrested in the assault and later released.
Journalists who went to the party headquarters to investigate reports of the attack were chased by men armed with clubs. A car rented by a group of photographers was seized along with their film.
Earlier today, General Noriega called for a crackdown against what he called disloyal Government employees and others. In an emotional speech in Santiago, a city 140 miles southwest of Panama City, the general also accused the United States of hypocricy in denying a role in the attempted coup against him on Tuesday and held Washington responsible for the death eight years ago of the Panamanian leader Gen. Omar Torrijos, who was killed in a mysterious plane crash.
As General Noriega spoke in the steamy auditorium of a teachers' college in the heart of Panama's rice-growing region, security forces in the capital began to take action against political opposition leaders, first arresting a chief of security for the Liberal Party and a party photographer.
This afternoon a dozen men dressed in civilian clothes and carrying clubs, rubber hoses and shotguns forced their way into the offices of the civilian opposition coalition shortly after a press conference involving the opposition leaders Ricardo Arias Calderon and Mr. Endara, who is on a hunger strike to protest Government policies. The men took away three civilians, including one of Mr. Endara's bodyguards, and surrounded the building for more than an hour before leaving.
In the afternoon incident at the opposition offices, the man who appeared to be leading the group refused to identify himself or show his authorization to conduct such a raid, but said that he had been told to prevent anyone from entering or leaving the building.
''We have orders from high up,'' said the man, who brandished a steel rod with a homemade handgrip.
General Noriega, in his speech in Santiago, apparently referring to the radio and television stations that broadcast rebel communiques during the attempted coup, said broadcast organizations that ''have been suborned have to be shut down.'' Both stations are run by the Government.
Drenched in sweat and wearing a floppy red-and-blue striped straw hat, he portrayed Panama as a country under siege by the United States and threatened by internal tensions that were revealed by the participation of some of his closest allies in the attempted coup.
 
Under Fire for 4 Hours
General Noriega said he spent nearly four hours under fire in army headquarters during the coup attempt.
He suggested that not only military officers but civilian Government employees as well had been involved in the rebellion.
''In the name of those functionaries who acted with dignity,'' he said, ''we have to throw out those who did not. We have to throw them out to create a vacancy for those who do not have jobs.'' He described his Panamanian enemies both in and out of the Government as traitors and told the audience of several hundred cheering Government workers: ''The functionary who does not turn in a traitor is himself a traitor.''
Though General Noriega thoroughly dominates Panama, he said he was presenting to his hand-picked President, Francisco Rodriguez, a ''proposal that certain laws that protect enemies of the Government be knocked down.''
The general declared that ''those who are privileged and involved in traitorism cannot get away with it.''
''We have to have a new package of war laws,'' he said. ''We have to defend ourselves.''
He drew attention to the United States economic blockade of Panama and the country's declining commerce and Governmental revenues as further evidence for harsh actions. ''The laws for old times do not serve anymore,'' he said.
The crowd underscored points in the speech with slogans like ''Hit the Yankees hard!''
 
Canal Accords in Peril
General Noriega, who is under indictment in the United States on drug trafficking charges, has tried to picture his troubles with Washington as a result of a campaign not against him but against Panama. He suggested again today that the United States agreement to turn over control of the Panama Canal to Panama in 1999 was in great jeopardy, and he cited the failed coup attempt as proof.
He insisted that after the coup attempt he had discovered ''written proof'' that the United States had encouraged the rebels and that part of the plan was to replace President Rodriguez with Mr. Endara, who had appeared to be winning the elections for president in May when the Government stopped the vote-counting and annulled the election.
Referring to General Torrijos, General Noriega said that ''with the most sophisticated technology,'' the United States ''brought down his plane.''
General Noriega said the Americans had made a mistake in believing that by removing him, it could prevent ''the people from receiving their canal on Dec. 31, 1999.''
''It is not a question of the death of one man,'' he continued angrily, ''but of a generation of people struggling for national dignity.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of soldiers in civilian clothes patrolling the streets of Panama City; the Panamanian opposition leader, Guillermo Endara at a window of his party headquarters (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES CIVIL SERVICES (90%); COUPS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (83%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); ENDARA, GUILLERMO



155 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: For Boeing Strikers, Walkout Is Welcome Respite

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EVERETT, Wash, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Across the street from the cavernous building where the Boeing Company builds 747 jets is an old cafe called the Overtime Inn.
The name is apt, for it dramatizes a chief complaint of many workers in the two-day-old strike by 57,000 machinists against the world's largest airplane manufacturer.
''People are worn out,'' said Ed Elliott, who has worked on an assembly line building the midsection of the jumbo jets 12 hours a day, every day, for the last five weeks.
Tired machinists, many of whom have been working 30-day stretches without a day off, are common on the picket lines in front of the plant here, the largest building in the world. Their work schedules have emerged as one of the most emotional issues in the strike. 
 
'We're Just Dog-Tired'
To meet the largest production order in its history - more than 1,600 airplanes worth $80 billion - Boeing has made overtime work mandatory at some plants. Many machinists appreciate the extra money and have no qualms working 12-hour days for four weeks at a stretch. But others express concerns about their family lives and even about the quality of their workmanship.
''You walk around the plant like a zombie,'' said Craig Huse, who has been a machinist at Boeing for less than a year. ''We're out here building most of the world's airplanes, trying to make sure Grandma doesn't fall out of the sky someday, and we're just dog-tired. I don't mind the overtime that much, but I think we should have a choice.''
Aside from one highly publicized complaint last year by Japan Air Lines, one of Boeing's biggest customers, the aerospace company has received few public complaints about workmanship. The planes are inspected by the Federal Aviation Administration and by independent airline engineers as they are put together.
Boeing officials say they recognize that the people who assemble the airplanes are overworked. For the last year, they have been bringing new people onto the assembly line as fast as they can hire and train them. In the company's latest contract offer, which was overwhelmingly rejected by the International Association of Machinists on Tuesday, Boeing offered to reduce the mandatory overtime from 200 hours every three months to 160 hours.
 
'I Used to Be a Fisherman'
But many workers walking picket lines here in Everett, 30 miles north of Seattle, say they want a choice.
The fresh-cleared land around the plant is stuffed with new apartment buildings housing thousands of workers who have flocked to the Puget Sound area for the economic good times. But they say they are working so hard that the blessings of the Pacific Northwest - the fishing, hiking, hunting, skiing and boating in the nearby mountains and waterways - are passing them by.
''I used to be a fisherman - that was my hobby,'' said Don Hubble, a striking machinist. ''I haven't caught a salmon or a steelhead in a long time. I have two kids, little ones. Once, I wanted to go to a baby pageant, and not work overtime. They treated me like I was a pansy.''
Mr. Hubble, a native of the Northwest, has never made so much money as now. With overtime, the average Boeing machinist makes $35,000 a year, state labor officials say. But Mr. Hubble said he would gladly give up some of his big checks in return for a normal weekend - that is, more than one day off every 35 days.
''This job cost me my marriage and my little girl,'' said Rick Gauthier, who moved to Everett this year from Fort Worth. The move, plus spending virtually every waking hour away from home, he said, led to the breakup of his family. #80 Hours of Overtime Like other Boeing workers on the picket line here, Mr. Gauthier said that all he wants to do is sleep when he comes home from work. His last paycheck, for two weeks, included money for 80 hours of overtime, he said.
For others, the mandatory overtime is doubly vexatious because it doesn't even pay the bills.
''I'm considered an unskilled factory worker,'' said Tim Rizan, who moved to the Seattle area this year from South Carolina, where he worked at Lockheed. ''We're supposed to be a bunch of dumb blue-collar workers. I'm no financial wizard but I can read the paper. And it says that Boeing made $600 million in profit last year. Well, if they want us to work this hard, why not give us a choice or pay us what we're worth.''
Mr. Rizan said he supports his wife and two kids on a base salary of $11.76 an hour. The pay is 20 percent more than earned in South Carolina. But he cannot afford to buy a house in the soaring Seattle market, where home prices are going up 30 percent a year in many neighborhoods.
Although Boeing has said it will try to continue limited production during the strike by using supervisors, striking workers scoff at the idea.
''What those supervisors are trying to do to those airplanes right now is a sin,'' Mr. Gauthier said. ''Most of those guys haven't turned a wrench in years. One of my bosses was a fisherman before he came to Boeing. What does he know about being a mechanic?''
Paul Binder, a spokesman for Boeing, said supervisors would not be asked to do jobs which they are not qualified or certified by the Federal Aviation Administration.

GRAPHIC: Photo of striking workers at the Boeing plant in Everett, Wash. (NYT/Lance Muresan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); 9201 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (70%); WEST USA (70%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%); JAPAN AIRLINES CO LTD (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; INTERNATIONAL MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS ASSN OF

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; OVERTIME; STRIKES FACTORY WORKERS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); FAMILY (66%); HIKING (65%); CIVIL AVIATION (64%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (62%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (60%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY



156 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
The Monument to '88 Lives in Politics of '89

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
A year ago, many politicians and analysts said the 1988 Presidential campaign would have little to do with governing, little to do with the issues and problems that would shape the years that followed. To the Democrats' despair and the Republicans' delight, they were wrong. If you seek the monument of the 1988 campaign, look around.
It is apparent in the politics of patriotism, in large ways and small. Each day, the House of Representatives convenes with the Pledge of Allegiance, a ritual adopted when George Bush was hammering Gov. Michael S. Dukakis for blocking a Massachusetts law that required schoolchildren to recite it. Today the Senate, following the lead of the House, passed the 1989 Flag Protection Act, aimed at outlawing flag burning in the aftermath of the Supreme Court decision protecting such acts of political expression. 
With a critical budget deadline just 11 days away, carrying the threat of automatic spending cuts, and a host of fiscal and public policy issues pressing in, the Senate spent the entire day and much of the night on Wednesday making speeches about the importance of protecting the flag. Many of the speeches came from Democrats, who in 1988 saw their party outmaneuvered on traditional values.
''George Bush campaigns at a flag factory and everybody says, 'What does that have to do with the problems of the country?' '' said one aide to the House Democratic leadership. One year later, he said ruefully, ''We've spent four months trying to perfect an anti-flag burning statute.''
Lee Atwater, the Republican national chairman, sees the flag-burning bill as the triumph of the mainstream values that President Bush championed in 1988. ''I think it proves that candidate George Bush was on to something when he talked about that in the campaign,'' said Mr. Atwater, who managed the Bush organization.
The 1988 campaign has framed the economic struggles now consuming the Democratic Congress and the White House. Mr. Bush's ''no new taxes'' pledge, made in the heat of the campaign, has echoed through the autumn of 1989, even as pressure grows because of the deficit and the law requiring its reduction.
Given their political vulnerabilities on the issue, Democrats are wary of making the first move on taxes. The Democratic leadership of the House, for example, was roundly criticized last week when it proposed higher taxes only on the 600,000 richest taxpayers. ''I do think the single best issue the Republican Party has over the Democrats today is the tax issue,'' said Mr. Atwater.
In general, Democrats have waited for Mr. Bush to blink first; some were convinced that the moment would come as part of a grand budget compromise. He has not blinked yet. ''The dirty little secret of Democrats' displeasure is they didn't believe George Bush was serious when he talked about not raising taxes,'' asserted John Buckley, spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
In fact, Republicans argue, President Bush is doing exactly what candidate George Bush promised to do: forswear new taxes and cut the taxes on capital gains.
Some Congressional Democrats say that is exactly the problem. The 1988 campaign finessed the hard questions of the deficit and left the country in a state of drift that plagues it today, they argue. ''That campaign took us nowhere,'' said Representative Vic Fazio of California, vice chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. ''It took us to four more years of fudging.''
There is another echo of the 1988 campaign in Washington today. The fierce tactical thrust and parry that marked the Presidential campaign has carried over, in some ways, to the style of governing. The battle over the capital gains cut last week, for example, had many of the trappings of a campaign, with competing sound bites and slogans, press releases and commercials. Much of the public dialogue between Congress and the White House is reminsicent of the dialogue a year ago.
Some lawmakers worry about blurring the line between tactics and policy, campaign and governance. ''The amount of governing that is substance is less and less and less,'' says Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn. ''On Monday, the guys in the White House say, What image can we convey? And on the Hill, on Tuesday, Democrats say, How can we counter that image?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1988; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CHILDREN (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (55%); SUPREME COURTS (54%); APPEALS (54%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



157 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Speaker Holds Off Insurance Ban

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The Massachusetts House voted Wednesday to delay for a year the key provision of the state's universal health insurance law after turning back an attempt to repeal it.
The Speaker of the House, George Keverian, a Democrat, quit the rostrum Wednesday and took the floor to offer an amendment to preserve the program, a centerpiece of Gov. Michael S. Dukakis's Presidential campaign last year.
Mr. Keverian postponed the effective date of the legislation until 1993, so as to save its key provision, that businesses with six or more employees provide health insurance worth $1,680 to each worker. 
The bill goes next to the Senate. where it has strong backing and is expected to be passed.
 
Study of Law's Financing Due
State Representative Peter Forman, a Republican, had won preliminary House approval in July to repeal the key provision, arguing that the plan would cost $400 million to $1 billion and the added burden could harm businesses.
Under the plan, the state would subsidize health insurance for workers whose employers chose not to buy coverage for their employees. It would also help provide insurance to the self-employed and to businesses with fewer than six employees.
Mr. Keverian argued against repeal and pleaded instead for a delay to study the law's financing. The Democratic-controlled House agreed, 96-53.
 
Insurance for the Jobless
The Keverian amendment would also keep in place a provision that would take effect next year, providing insurance to jobless workers collecting unemployment compensation. That plan would be financed by a $16.80-a-year fee that businesses with six or more workers would pay for each employee.
The plan has already provided health insurance to about 77,000 of the estimated 600,000 people who did not have insurance when the plan was made law last year.
Of the 77,000, 17,000 are people moving off welfare into jobs that do not provide health insurance, as well as disabled adults and some children with serious disabilities. The 60,000 others are college students who were required this school year to have health insurance either through their parents or group plans through schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); CHILDREN (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (61%); 



158 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: How to Slow the East German Exodus

 BODY:
East Germans keep heading west. And Bush Administration officials now say they would like the flow of refugees to slow, but that it's up to East Germany to do so by reforming itself economically and politically. Preferring East Germans to stay home sounds harsh, but it's sound policy. And only a country worth living in, not a socialist workhouse, will keep them there. 
Thousands of East Germans tried this week to send the same message. They took to the streets in Leipzig to chant for reform - ''We want to stay,'' and ''Gorby, Gorby.'' But the Honecker regime, still hoping that perestroika collapses before it does, grimly clamps down. Repression and the continuing emigration risk a popular explosion, which could chill warming relations between East and West, not just in Germany.
The U.S. and West Germany have always welcomed refugees from tyranny, and it's right to extend that hospitality. But the rush to exit in recent weeks has its complications. The arrival of skilled young workers may benefit Bonn economically by spurring growth, but it creates political strains. Some West Germans resent the newcomers. Others worry that the exodus will cause border closings, impeding contact with their relatives in the East.
These concerns give the U.S. and West Germany an interest in encouraging reform without disorder throughout Eastern Europe. The Soviets share this interest. But the goal may not be achievable in East Germany, almost certainly not with Erich Honecker and his henchmen in charge. That's why Washington, Bonn and Moscow want more pragmatic East German leaders to surface soon.
In this context, the Bush Administration's policy rightly addresses the question at hand, the future of East Germany, not the future of a united Germany. That's a useful counterpoint to siren calls on the right in Bonn for German reunification.
West German Governments have long relegated reunification to an indeterminate future in favor of Ostpolitik now. That's the series of small steps Bonn has taken to improve relations between the two Germanys and make life more bearable for Germans in both. To jettison that policy now would disrupt the process of change in the East and improvement in East-West relations. That's why Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher wisely takes issue with reunification, calling instead for ''a European federalism and a German federalism.''
Orderly democratic reform may be a contradiction in terms for Mr. Honecker. But for Washington, Moscow and for all Germans, it represents the best hope for a permanent end to the cold war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; EDITORIALS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: ERICH HONECKER (54%); 



159 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Freight Access Program for New York city Remains Essential;
Switch to Night Shift

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Neither David Dinkins nor Rudolph Giuliani should spend a moment to address the nonissue expressed by John F. McHugh, a lawyer with railroad clients (Op-Ed, Sept. 16).
True, most freight for New York City is delivered on small trucks -possibly 10 for each highway trailer - after unloading of trailers and redistribution of freight to city delivery routes. This is true of trailer loads as well as freight-car loads, as Mr. McHugh should know. He should also know that loads destined for one delivery point are not unloaded and then reloaded to 10 small trucks.
These small trucks are less of a burden to cross-Hudson routes than they would be to the impassible Brooklyn-Queens Expressway.
The freight-handling system can be improved upon by acknowledging that the congestion is a function of the tremendous volume - for which there is only one sane solution: reorganization of the 24-hour day for general freight delivery and pickup.
Copy the meat, produce and fish distribution night operation. Prohibit pickup or delivery for less than truckload lots from 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. It may require businesses to hire employees willing to work at night, thus easing unemployment. It will also require major convulsions within teamster union contracts, but there is no other rational or sane solution to a problem that grows worse as prosperity grows.
 
BERT NEUMAN
Passaic Park, N.J., Sept. 21, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; RAILROADS NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); TRUCKING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); 

PERSON: NEUMAN, BERT; MCHUGH, JOHN RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 



160 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: LAW;
Law Schools Seeking to Limit Students' Part-Time Work

 BODY:
Using letters and moral persuasion, law school deans in the nation's largest metropolitan areas are urging law firms to discourage students from spending too much time in part-time jobs at their firms.
The most recent plea came last month when a letter signed by the deans of all 15 laws schools in New York was sent to about 2,000 firms in the state.
The letter stated that the schools shared a concern that ''excessive part-time work'' during the academic year can detract significantly from studying and reduce participation in extracurricular programs like moot court, the law review and legal research. 
''The lure of a $40-an-hour job is very difficult for a young professional to resist,'' said John E. Sexton, dean of New York University Law School who was an organizer of the letter. ''But the three years of law school is the only extended amount of time students have with experts committed to teaching the fundamental issues of the law. That's not the role of a law partner.''
New York, like Washington and other major cities, has a high concentration of law offices and Federal agencies offering part-time work to law students as researchers. The pay ranges from $10 an hour at a government agency to $45 an hour at a blue-chip firm. #20-Hour Suggested Maximum Legal educators say the American Bar Association's guideline suggesting that full-time students work no more than 20 hours a week outside of school is often flouted by law firms, corporations and government agencies. Others say even that suggested limit is too high.
''Recently we have heard stories of law firms requiring students to work more than 45 hours a week,'' said Betsy Levin, executive director of the Association of American Law Schools in Washington. ''We've been very concerned by students' being encouraged by law firms to violate the standard.''
Professor Levin said that at some schools, second- and third-year students were deserting the libraries and moot courts so they could earn money at law firms. Professors have reported that some working students frequently miss class or come ill-prepared.
Last August, a joint committee composed of officials from the Association of American Law Schools and the National Association of Law Professors was formed to examine the extent of the problem.
In Dallas, where Southern Methodist University's Law School is the only one in the city to provide part-time legal labor, Dean Paul Rogers says the problem of student overwork is serious. ''We have a lot of students who work more than we would like,'' he said. ''But on the other hand we are a private law school with a fairly steep tuition so our concern has to be tempered by students' economic necessities.''
Law students say the money they earn as part-time workers fulfills the work-study requirements of their scholarships and often leaves extra money to pay rent and other expenses.
Natalie Frazier, a 23-year-old second-year student at George Washington Law School, says the experience will help her find permanent employment. ''It gives you leverage and marketability,'' said Ms. Frazier, who is to become a clerk in the spring at Arent, Fox & Kitner in Washington. ''It's practical experience that will follow you the rest of your career.''
But Professor Levin says the value of the legal education diminishes when students spend an inordinate amount of time working. ''The difficulty is they only have three years to prepare themselves for a lifetime in the law,'' she said. ''They shouldn't waste it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; LABOR LAW SCHOOLS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CITIES (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); LEGAL EDUCATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); 



161 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: LAW: At the Bar;
In defense of ambulance chasing: Will more competition keep lawyers' fees down?

BYLINE: By David Margolick

 BODY:
No stereotype of lawyers is more common or more unflattering than that of pin-striped locusts descending on tragedies in quest of clients long before the smoke has cleared or the black box has been found.
But Prof. Lester Brickman of New York's Cardozo Law School says solicitation need not be bad. Or, to paraphrase Gordon Gekko, the Michael Douglas character in ''Wall Street,'' ambulance chasing can be good - for clients.
''What is ambulance chasing?'' Professor Brickman asked. ''It is lawyers openly competing with each other for business. And when lawyers greedily compete, prices go down.'' 
Professor Brickman is also a disciple of Milton Friedman, the apostle of free enterprise. And, as the professor puts it in an article in the current issue of The U.C.L.A. Law Review, some more free enterprise is what's really needed in personal injury law.
Historically, personal injury lawyers charge clients nothing up front but collect up to half of whatever their clients receive through a verdict or a settlement. So, with recoveries skyrocketing, the hourly rate can exceed those of the fanciest Wall Street lawyers. What ostensibly justifies these fees is the risk that the victims, and their lawyers, may win nothing at all.
But Mr. Brickman contends that this justification is no longer valid and that the system remains simply because it serves lawyers. ''The contingent fee area presents a blatant example of routine price-gouging by lawyers,'' he said. ''The bar's indifference to this situation is stunning.''
America has long been ambivalent about contingency fees, which are prohibited in most countries. In many places they were equated with champerty, or selling a piece of litigation speculatively, and were prohibited. Laws against them date at least to 1658, when Peter Stuyvesant specified just how much lawyers in New Amsterdam could charge.
Such bans gradually fell, mainly because contingent fees were well-suited to the Industrial Revolution, when ever-larger numbers of workers without funds to hire lawyers were hurt. But for several reasons, including broadened rules of discovery and transformation of the tort system into a kind of social insurance program in which the deepest pocket pays regardless of fault, today's personal injury plaintiffs collect far more predictably than they once did.
Airplane crashes, hotel fires, medical malpractice - all are, in a way, like the classic case of an Englishman named Byrne, who was crushed by a flour barrel that rolled out of a warehouse window in 1863. All are open-and-shut cases in which liability is certain. In cases like this, there is nothing ''contingent'' about the contingent fee.
Professor Brickman noted one case in which a Kansas doctor removing a woman's thyroid gland cut off a piece of her esophagus in the process. The case produced a $2 million verdict, half of which went to the lawyer - a fee that worked out to $3,000 an hour. Such remuneration, Mr. Brickman said, violates injunctions against ''illegal or clearly excessive'' fees. But such charges, he added, ''are so much a part of the culture that people have stopped questioning them.''
Go to any bar convention, and the American flag is amply on display. The star-spangled spectacles of the American Bar Association are filled with patriotic homilies, pledges of allegiance and color guards. But historically, the bar has protected itself from all-American free enterprise, usually under the guise of maintaining high ethical standards. It was in precisely this way that innovations like legal clinics and lawyer advertising were blocked.
''When it comes to economics, lawyers, like every group in America, put their interests first and claim those interests are in society's interests,'' Mr. Brickman said. But bans on solicitation remain on the books, at least officially. As a practical matter it is allowed, but only when done discreetly and unthreateningly - that is, by lawyers adhering to the usual contingent rates rather than underbidding one another.
In Mr. Brickman's ideal world, lawyers would not only descend on a Gramercy Park or a Bhopal but also bid against one another once they got there. Where risks were minimal, percentages would drop proportionately; conversely, where recovery was unlikely, lawyers would raise their rates.
The spectacle, while unsavory, would also be efficient. Mr. Brickman notes how, in air crashes, competition between lawyers has already cut the usual contingency fee in half.
''So pervasive are these abuses that one may legitimately describe the current regulatory scheme as 'rotten.' '' he writes. Until the problem is fixed, he says, ''we should at least change the term 'contingent fee' to 'percentage fee' or 'joint venture fee' or 'access toll.' After all, would we still call it 'Hamlet' if it lacked the Prince of Denmark?''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW AMSTERDAM BOOKS (53%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARDOZO LAW SCHOOL

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); LAWYERS LAWYERS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PERSONAL INJURY (90%); LITIGATION (89%); PERSONAL INJURY LIABILITY INSURANCE (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); TORTS (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (67%); PRETRIAL DISCOVERY (62%); 

PERSON: MARGOLICK, DAVID; BRICKMAN, LESTER (PROF) MICHAEL KIRK DOUGLAS (57%); MILTON FRIEDMAN (56%); 



162 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: LAW;
Law Firms Tighten Belt on Recruiting Students

BYLINE: By SHARMAN STEIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Law students who are packing suitcases for job interviews at firms around the country are likely to find only an interview, not an all-expenses-paid vacation. Troubled by the escalating costs of recruitment, law firms are putting limits on accommodations and expenses for prospective associates.
''Why should we compete with each other to put students up at the next most ridiculously expensive hotel?'' said Francis Carling, the hiring partner at Winthrop, Stimson in Manhattan.
Several years ago, firms in San Francisco, Atlanta, Cleveland and Los Angeles got together to establish guidelines on how much students may spend while in town for an interview. Firms in New York City, which includes some of the country's largest partnerships and the most active recruiters, have lagged behind, possibly because of the greater amount of national recruiting. 
The guidelines used in San Francisco, and now being considered by New York firms, set forth recommendations like suggesting that students obtain economy-class airline tickets and take a shuttle bus from the airport instead of a taxi. Firms are advised to inform students that they will pay no more than $15 for breakfast, $15 for lunch and $30 for dinner.
 
Watchword Is 'Reasonable'
Los Angeles firms are following similar monetary limits. Many firms in other cities are simply advising students they will be reimbursed only for ''reasonable'' costs.
While many firms report a few cases of overspending and fraudulent bills, recruiting officers like Mr. Carling say this abuse was not the impetus for such a change. Last year Winthrop, Stimson conducted 167 in-office interviews, Mr. Carling said, emphasizing that he is interested in saving money while providing students with first-rate accommodations.
Large New York firms spend $300,000 to $500,000 each on the annual recruitment process. The firms collectively bring from 3,000 to 5,000 students to the city each year, said Paul Kurland, a lawyer at Snow Becker Krauss who is spearheading the ad hoc New York City Law Firms Office Interviewing Procedures and Guidelines Committee, representing about 50 firms.
''The guidelines would let people know that it is not appropriate to go to The Four Seasons or Lutece for dinner, or to order a $100 bottle of wine, or caviar,'' said Mr. Kurland, who estimated it costs $1,140 to bring a student from Chicago to New York for a day of interviewing, which includes a $600 plane fare, $220 hotel room, $70 in cabs to and from the airport and meals.
 
Collaboration Studied
The New York firms are considering a move to arrange airline tickets and hotel rooms through one travel agency to obtain bulk rates. The agency would also handle the laborious administrative task of dividing each student's expenses among each of the firms visited.
''We could get big blocks of rooms at a hotel and save a lot of money,'' Mr. Carling said. ''The firms who want to be more lavish don't have to join the system.''
Because of antitrust questions raised by some firms, the matter is still under debate. But many partners said the guidelines and the travel agency proposal would eventually be adopted.
Michael Delikat, the hiring partner at Baer, Marks & Upham in Manhattan, said setting such limits would help to set a better tone for the entire profession.
''There's a feeling that we should start fostering the right attitudes in students from the beginning by keeping expenses reasonable, whether or not the firm or the client picks it up,'' Mr. Delikat said. ''This would bring back a sense of reason to the process, and it's a good way of having all the firms in New York play on a level playing field.''
 
Cutback on School Interviews
In addition to paring travel costs, firms are also reducing the number of partners each student sees in a visit to the firm, saving costly time. The firms are also reducing the number of law schools where preliminary interviews are conducted.
''We found that we were interviewing at several schools where we don't do well, possibly because of geography or a lack of interest in the Midwest,'' said Diana Goebel, director of legal recruiting for Arter & Hadden in Cleveland. ''We cut out some of those schools. During the past three years, our costs have dropped, but we're doing better because we're not aiming to hire anything that walks by.''
Jamienne Studley, executive director of the National Association for Law Placement, an organization of 700 legal employers and law schools, said, ''The message many firms are trying to communicate is, 'Let's concentrate on the work you'd do here, and the people you're working with, and not what kind of hotel we put you up at.' ''
Some students have apparently reached the same conclusion by themselves. Students at the 14 top law schools, including Harvard, Yale and Michigan, are participating in a program in which they ask law firms to book hotel rooms and patronize restaurants that are less expensive than the norm, and to give the difference in cost to an organization serving the homeless.
 
Still a Seller's Market
Nevertheless, lawyers note that it is still a seller's market for top law students, and firms will make sure that accommodations are pleasing.
''Costs are obscene, and they have gotten out of hand,'' said Tim Baetz, the hiring partner at McDermott, Will, Emery, which is based in Chicago. ''But firms will do what it takes because all of us are expanding at such a significant rate.''
Mr. Baetz, whose 470-lawyer firm plans to hire about 80 lawyers this year in its seven offices, said the manpower needs of the top 200 largest firms are almost twice what the top half of the graduating classes can provide.
''We're all vying for the same people, and nobody wants to go second-tier,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Paul Kurland, a lawyer at Snow Becker Krauss (NYT/Vic DeLucia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SAVE-A-LOT LTD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: WINTHROP STIMSON

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); ATLANTA (GA); CLEVELAND (OHIO); LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; FINANCES TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (67%); 

PERSON: STEIN, SHARMAN; CARLING, FRANCIS



163 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 17, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Sounds Around Town

BYLINE: By PETER WATROUS

 BODY:

From Africa and Asia
''We Came Before Columbus,''
Davis Hall, Convent Avenue and 134th Street (307-7420). An impressive collection of groups will celebrate African and Asian pre-Columbian influences in the Americas with traditional drumming, dance and singing, to open the Caribbean Cultural Center's fall season. Included is a rare appearance by the Allegheny River Indian Dancers, who will sing traditional Seneca social songs, as well as dance and drum. Soh Daiko will perform pieces on the taido, a Japanese drum, and Luis Bauzo and Patakin, along with Roots of Brazil, will perform Cuban and Brazilian versions, respectively, of West African religious ceremonies. Babatunde Olatunji, the master Nigerian drummer, will headline the show. The tickets for tomorrow's concert, at 8 P.M., are $12 in advance and $14 at the door. 
 
Tommy Flanagan
Tommy Flanagan, Fat Tuesday's, 190 Third Avenue, at 17th Street (533-7902). Tommy Flanagan has consistently led one of the great piano trios of the 1980's. Along with the bassist George Mraz and the drummer Kenny Washington, he has made extraordinary interplay an essential part of his performances. Mr. Flanagan can not only rummage around an extensive catalogue of standards, but he's also an expert on the tunes of Bud Powell and Thelonious Monk and other be-bop composers. One set of his is never the same as the next, and each one always offers surprises. Sets today and tomorrow at 8 and 10 P.M. and midnight, and Sunday at 8 and 10 P.M.; the cover is $12.50 and the minimum $7.50.
 
Dorothy Donegan
Dorothy Donegan, Village Vanguard, Seventh Avenue South at 11th Street (255-4037). Dorothy Donegan is an American eccentric, a pianist who can invest an Ellingtonian melody with a primal stillness, then rock it with boogie-woogie or stride piano. Though she was often overlooked in her youth, she's finally beginning to reap some of the recognition she deserves. Mixing styles with real glee, she deflates pretension. And as an entertainer, she's just as liable to whack a note, turn around on the piano bench, look at the audience so they understand, then get back to the business of originality. Sets tonight through Sunday are at 10 and 11:30 P.M. and 1 A.M. The cover is $12 and there is a $7.50 minimum.
 
'Majestic Zouk'
Zouk Album of the Week: Kassav': ''Majestik Zouk'' (Columbia FC 45353). Technology and economic success have allowed Kassav', the most popular of the zouk bands from Guadeloupe, the liberty to record albums that have all the glitter of typical pop albums. On the deficit side, this means that the recordings don't document the players' boiling live shows. It does allow them to layer chorus over chorus, electric and acoustic drums and synthesizer lines into a big danceable mess. On ''Majestik Zouk,'' the band's second album on a major label, Kassav' lets complicated rhythms stutter, stop and start. Horn lines charge and dart while the vocals, in Creole, float over the dancing synthesizer figures.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Lois Bauzo (J. Antonio Vazquez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (90%); NIGERIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (78%); GUADELOUPE (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: MUSIC; JAZZ; CONCERTS AND RECITALS; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (84%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); DANCERS (77%); DANCE (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MARDI GRAS (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); MUSIC REVIEWS (71%); 



164 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 25, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Review/Art;
The Pottery of George Ohr At American Craft Museum

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
The times have almost caught up with George Ohr, the turn-of-the-century American potter who always knew that he was a genius and that the pots he produced were unprecedented as both art and craft. The exhibition of 91 examples of Ohr's work that has just opened at the American Craft Museum could be larger and more complete. Ohr's achievement merits more than one floor of this small museum; it certainly deserves better company than the display of umbrellas that fills the museum lobby.
Nonetheless, if small, this exhibition is all muscle. It outlines in certain, often irresistible terms many of the facets of Ohr's originality, introducing an achievement that deserves a place among the artist's greatest contemporaries - Thomas Eakins, Albert Pinkham Ryder, Louis Sullivan, Marsden Hartley, Alfred Stieglitz and perhaps even Frank Lloyd Wright.
The son of an Alsatian blacksmith, Ohr was born in 1857 in Biloxi, Miss., where he would spend most of his life. His education did not extend beyond the elementary years and he trained as a blacksmith and worked as a tinker, a dock chandler and a sailor before a childhood friend offered to teach him the pottery trade. The first time he sat at a potter's wheel, Ohr knew he had found his life's calling. 
Yet, despite Ohr's unwavering self-confidence and relentless, often obnoxious flair for self-promotion, his talent went largely unrecognized in his lifetime. In 1910, eight years before his death, ''the mad dauber of Biloxi,'' as he called himself, converted his Biloxi pottery (or ''Pot-Ohr-E,'') into an auto repair shop. His beloved pots were packed away in wooden crates that remained stored in the garage's rafters until 1972, when they were rediscovered by an antiques dealer.
It's hard to encapsulate Ohr's sensibility and his drive to set free color and form. It's equally hard to do justice to the sense of artistic intelligence (and humor) and the extreme improvisational flair that his work exudes. The innate technical virtuosity he brought to the potter's wheel enabled him to create pots whose walls are among the thinnest known. In his mature years, which date from 1894 to 1910, his inventiveness led him to deform these thin-walled vessels with ruffles and dents, nips and tucks that turned each into a unique formal event.
Handles alone occasioned great originality, their linear profiles variously drooped, coiled or flairing, spilling down or up the sides of vases. Some handles are so full of personality they turn Ohr's more thin-waisted vases into abstracted female figurines.
On top of this, Ohr's feeling for mixing colors and glazes yielded an astounding array of hues, surfaces and application techniques. The vases, pitchers and teapots that grace this show are often splattered, dripped and dappled in patterns as free form as the pots themselves. But visitors shouldn't let the brighter colors outshine the artist's subtler greenish browns and his countless shades of black - shiny and matte, rough and smooth.
Basically Ohr invented his own brand of beauty, one so innately modern that it's easy to understand why he wasn't more appreciated in his own time. His liberations of color and form move beyond Art Nouveau and the Arts and Crafts Movement - with which his work has obvious links - and points toward the present. In particular, his exquisite, constantly shifting balances of randomness and control convey a kind of three-dimensional Automatism that presages ideas basic to Surrealism and Abstract Expressionism. And in a way that seems both modern and close to the experience of painting, Ohr invites the viewer to rehearse the pleasure and release he felt in making his pots.
In some instances we can see where he stopped the wheel's spin to pull a pot's mouth into a delicate four-cornered box; frequently we feel that he reversed the wheel to create bands of repeating ruffles or that he simply tapped the vessel's top to introduce the suggestion of collapse into an otherwise perfect shape. All these devices dramatize the pots' thinness and their feeling of spontaneity, but they also introduce complex emotions - gentleness or violence, irreverence or awe - that convey an undiluted sense of Ohr's presence and personality.
If we are lucky, this exhibition will lead to a full-blown survey of Ohr's work, one that would feature some of the more modest, often quite tiny (shot-glass-sized) bowls and vases, as well as the erotica that he produced. But in the meantime, this show holds its own in a moment when New York, playing host to Picasso and Braque and Velazquez, is blessed with museum exhibitions of almost overwhelming greatness. It manages this by revealing an artist who focused absolutely on his chosen medium, who believed that its possibilities were limitless and who proved them to be so.
''George Ohr: Modern Potter'' remains on view at the American Craft Museum, 40 West 53d Street, through Jan. 7.
 
'Bruce Nauman: Prints 1970-1989'
Castelli Graphics and Lorence
Monk Gallery
578 Broadway (near Prince Street)
Through Oct. 14
This two-gallery exhibition features nearly all the prints that Bruce Nauman has made. It is an impressive display and also an especially personal one, in part because the artist's prints stress his use of language and his language forces a not-always-comfortable intimacy with the viewer. These surfaces are rife with the word plays, word reversals, verbal challenges and imperatives with which Mr. Nauman admonishes himself, his audience and fate in general.
In prints, Mr. Nauman works most often in drypoint etching or lithography, media that accommodate aggressive marks, gouges and retracings that make his words and images jangle and jump. In some prints, he calls us names, in another he spells ''Clear Vision'' backward and in a third he equates violins with violence. In a work whose image spells out ''Normal Desires,'' the routine suddenly seems oxymoronic, while the seemingly nonsensical ''Oiled Dead'' suggests business as usual, especially in these post-Valdez times.
These are insistent, often hostile works that seem bent on startling our consciousness upward a notch or two. They are ultimately more touching than aggravating and often quite beautiful to look at.
 
Jeff Wall
Marian Goodman Gallery
24 West 57th Street
Through tomorrow
In Jeff Wall's photographs, a picture is worth at least a thousand words, words that for the most part would combine social and esthetic critique. Mr. Wall's photographs are actually gigantic Cibachrome transparencies - measuring up to 10 feet in width and installed on equally large light boxes - that pull together a number of representational traditions. They combine the lustrous, idealizing glow of commercial art with the scale, formal complexity and psychological suggestiveness of great painting and the neutrality of the news photograph - and invite the viewer to write their captions. Almost large enough to step into, they are initially enticing, yet prolonged examination reveals subtle tales of desperation and man's inhumanity to both man and nature.
These five images constitute the first solo show in New York City for Mr. Wall, a Canadian artist whose work was seen in last year's Carnegie International exhibition in Pittsburgh, and who is well known both here and abroad. The simplest and most obvious of them shows a grand landscape of river, hills and mountain range with an industrial park festering at its center. The most convincing works take racial and economic inequity as their subject.
In ''Tran Duc Van,'' named after its central character, an Asian man in filthy clothing, seemingly homeless, leans against the trunk of a lushly-leafed tree while two people stroll by, oblivious. He looks upward as if asking succor of the tree, which is as isolated and out of place as he is, but his pose also suggests a Renaissance flagellation scene.
In ''The Goat,'' a scene that is straight out of Goya, four boys, each seeming to represent a different racial or ethnic group, taunt a fifth. The leader, a white youth, wields a bamboo stick as if it were a riding crop, assuming a stance that takes superiority for granted and seems to sum up generations of colonialism.
Yet as another work, ''Outburst,'' suggests, prejudice is not necessarily interracial: this Caravaggio-like sweatshop drama - complete with protruding tabletop - shows an Asian boss about to strike an Asian employee, while other workers look on in frozen horror.
It is hard to separate the strengths from the weaknesses of Mr. Wall's art. At times, his images seem too ambiguous and deadpan - and too dependent upon the viewer's knowledge of art history. In other instances, he gives just enough clues to pull us into his narratives, withholding final judgments so that we see all the participants as victims, knowing or not.

GRAPHIC: Pitcher, circa 1895-1900, by George Ohr, part of an exhibition at the American Craft Museum. (John White)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); 

CITY: BILOXI, MS, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CRAFT BREWING INTERNATIONAL LTD (91%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; ART SHOWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (76%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (63%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA; OHR, GEORGE EDDIE GEORGE (93%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); LOUIS W SULLIVAN (56%); 



165 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

 
Companies
Donald J. Trump offered $7.5 billion for AMR, the parent of American Airlines. The company is expected to reject the $120-a-share bid. [Page A1.] Robert L. Crandall, American's hard-driving boss, wants to run his own show and is unlikely to agree to any friendly takeover. [D4.] Mr. Trump has a strong staff and a solid record of repaying bank debts, but he suffers from an image as a corporate raider. [D4.] 
A G.M.-Chrysler joint venture will make manual transmissions and other components. The deal is the first joint venture among the nation's Big Three auto companies. [D1.]
Carl C. Icahn has increased his stake in USX and will continue to acquire more stock, according to filings with the S.E.C. [D3.]
Boeing's handling of its machinists' strike indicates that the company will favor a longterm strategy - seeking to put the brakes on wage increases - over immediate production needs. [A12.] Work schedules have become an emotional issue in the strike. [A12.]
An agreement to buy American Medical International was canceled by investors who offered at least $260 million less. [D3.]
L. J. Hooker will speed up the sale of B. Altman because of its inability to provide financing to modernize the stores. [D3.]
 
The Economy
Senate Republicans said they might strike a deal with Democrats to keep extraneous spending and tax measures, including a capital gains tax cut, out of the pending deficit-reduction package. [D1.]
Big retailers reported generally strong sales for last month. But a lag in purchases of household durable goods continued to hurt results at chains like Sears and Montgomery Ward. [D6.]
Prudential-Bache was censured by the S.E.C. for numerous violations of securities laws governing accounting procedures and operational controls. [D3.]
 
International
The Transportation Department proposed a liberalizaton of the U.S. air market, in a plan that would allow foreign airlines access to any city if they do not compete with existing service. The access would be restricted to airlines from nations with liberal rules on air traffic. [D1.]
The European Community was criticized by Commerce Secretary Mosbacher and the U.S. trade representative, Carla A. Hills, for what they said were protectionist trade measures on television programming and computer chips. [D2.]
 
Markets
The dollar closed higher, despite West Germany's increase in interest rates. Some other nations followed suit on the increase of one percentage point. Traders said a Japanese increase and a U.S. decline would be needed to tame the buoyant dollar. [D1.]
The Dow Jones industrials rose modestly to another record, closing at 2773.56. The broader market was less strong, and declining stocks outnumbered advances on the Big Board. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose in fairly active trading, pushed higher by a jump in the dollar. [D12.]
Precious metals futures slumped in a disappointed reaction to the dollar's late surge. Energy and coffee prices also fell. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Young & Rubicam expects to be indicted by a Federal grand jury on charges related to the purported bribing of Jamaican officials in order to obtain a tourism advertising account in 1981. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D1.]
The Bush Administration appears to have ended its ''benign neglect'' toward the dollar. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Dividends may be on the decline, after years of increase in the long-lasting bull market, says the editor of Standard & Poor's Outlook, an advisory newsletter. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); BOEING CO (56%); TENET HEALTHSYSTEM HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: No Index Terms PARENT COMPANIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); TAX LAW (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); CURRENCIES (84%); TAKEOVERS (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); MACHINE TOOLS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); JOINT VENTURES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAX RELIEF (69%); ACCOUNTING (67%); BOND MARKETS (66%); LIBERALISM (64%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (88%); CARL ICAHN (77%); 



166 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Europe Lifts Key Rates, But the Dollar Still Rises

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
In a coordinated effort to weaken the buoyant dollar, the West Germans and other European countries increased key interest rates today, but the dollar closed higher anyway.
The rally against the interest rate move, which was larger than expected, surprised traders. But they said it showed that the United States economy was attractive enough to create strong demand for dollar-denominated securities and the currency to buy them.
Other interest rate changes will be needed, they said, including an increase in Japanese rates and a decline in rates in the United States, to tame the dollar. A summer rally sent the dollar well over the ceilings of 1.90 marks and 140 yen believed to have been set by the Group of Seven, which consists of the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. 
But most economists do not expect the United States or Japan to act in the near future, which means that the Group of Seven will have to continue its largescale selling of the dollar to keep it from rising sharply again.
 
Fed Waiting
The Federal Reserve Board does not want American interest rates to ease until it sees sure signs that the economy is slowing. Analysts do not expect such signals until the end of the year. In Japan, officials have said they would not follow European increases. They are worried that by raising rates and slowing their economy, they would increase their trade surplus with the United States, which would aggravate political relations.
By the end of trading in New York, despite Fed sales, the dollar, after falling on the initial announcement of the interest rate rise, had risen against most major currencies. The dollar ended at 142.40 yen, up from 141.48 on Wednesday, and 1.8845 marks, up from 1.8815. The rise against the yen was stronger because the Japanese did not change interest rates.
While the Bundesbank was expected to raise its interest rates, the 1 percent increase was larger than expected, as were the following moves by Britain, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, and the Netherlands, which also went up a point. The French raised their key rate by three-quarters of a percentage point and the Swiss by half a percentage point.
The coordinated move was another step in the effort by the Group of Seven and their allies to bring the dollar back into line with the group's ceilings.
 
Moves Began Last Month
That group's effort began late last month with a communique saying the dollar was too high. This was followed by repeated and coordinated dollar selling by the Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan and European central banks that has already driven the dollar down significantly. The dollar was at 1.95 marks and 146 yen before the communique.
The West Germans raised their discount rate to 6 percent from 5 percent and their Lombard rate to 8 percent from 7 percent. The Lombard rate governs short-term rates and the discount rate is charged on medium-term borrowings. In a statement, the Bundesbank said the increase, the fourth this year, was intended to ''combat continued inflationary danger.''
Nicholas Sargen, director of bond research at Salomon Brothers in New York, suggested that the dollar may have rebounded after falling on the announcements because the West Gemrans later set a 7.3 percent interest rate on an offering, which was lower than the new 8 percent Lombard rate. ''The movement in official rates was bigger than the movement in money rates,'' he said, which diluted the impact somewhat.
 
Dollar Opens Higher
TOKYO, Friday, Oct. 6 (AP) - The dollar strengthened against the Japanese yen in morning trading today,, while share prices on the Tokyo Stock Exchange declined.
The dollar ended morning trading at 142.65 yen, up 1.60 yen from Thursday's close of 141.05 yen. After opening at 141.95 yen, the currency ranged from 141.80 to 142.75 yen.
The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, a 140.19-point gainer Thursday, shed 416.46 points, or 1.17 percent, closing the morning session at 35,106.53.

GRAPHIC: Charts showing US dollar gains against the German mark and the Japanese yen (Source: World Bank via Interactive Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); DENMARK (73%); AUSTRIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WEST GERMANY; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



167 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cautions Europe On Protectionist Moves

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
The Bush Administration warned today that it might have to re-examine its support for European Community efforts to forge a single market by the end of 1992 if Europeans continued taking actions that discriminated against the United States. Officials cited a recent television directive calling for majority European content in programming and policies that favor European computer chips.
Two Cabinet officers, Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher and the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, addressing separate Congressional forums, took the occasion to voice the strongest Administration reservations to date to the European plan to remove internal trade barriers by 1992. 
Mr. Mosbacher told a House Foreign Affairs subcommittee that ''European integration can be a great thing,'' but ''if they continue to hammer away at local content as they have with these guidelines on TV, and as they are doing in the semiconductor and other areas, we will have to take a whole new look at it and think about it differently.''
 
First Wavering in Support
It is the first time that any senior official of the United States, which has been an enthusiastic backer of European integration, has publicly suggested American support could waver.
Spurring Washington's wrath are tariff and other proposed regulations that favor European-made computer chips, telecommunications equipment and other products over imports from the United States, Japan or other regions.
The Europeans are also proposing local content rules covering municipal and public procurement, and as a result, American, Japanese and other companies are being induced to build European plants to retain European market shares.
This was reflected in a decision announced earlier this week by the Intel Corporation of Silicon Valley, one of the world's leading manufacturers of advanced computer chips, which is investing up to $400 million in a semiconductor plant near Dublin to meet demands for ''European content'' in chips used in the European automobile, telecommunications and other industries.
Mrs. Hills, addressing the Congressional Competitiveness Caucus, termed ''outrageous'' a European decision taken Tuesday by the European Council of Ministers, the community's highest decision-making authority, and served notice that the United States would retaliate.
The council set nonbinding rules urging European television stations to devote a majority of their air time to shows made in Europe. The United States contends that even the nonbinding rules will discriminate against American programs.
Mrs. Hills said the United States would ask the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to declare the action a violation of the charter of the 96-nation fair-trade agency. Should a GATT panel find against the community, the Europeans could come under pressure to rescind the ruling. However, GATT panel decisions are not binding.
Asked by Representative Don Ritter, Republican of Pennsylvania, ''Are we being caught with our pants down?'' Mrs. Hills, like Mr. Mosbacher, insisted that the Administration had a strategy of bringing maximum pressure to bear on the European rule-making procedures.
But Representative Sam Gejdenson, Democrat of Connecticut, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee's Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade, elicited from Mr. Mosbacher that the Commerce Department was still unable to field a single specialist in Brussels to follow the Europe 1992 developments.
''They'll be dealing in European Currency Units before we have Commerce people represented in Brussels,'' Mr. Gejdenson said.
Referring to a proposal from the Transportation Department, also made today, to open additional American cities to flights by foreign airlines, both Mr. Mosbacher and Mrs. Hills stressed that the Administration continued to back open trade policies and welcomed fair foreign competition in the domestic market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (81%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TELEVISION PROGRAMS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SEMICONDUCTORS AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (87%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ANN LIVERMORE (59%); 



168 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Dollar Anxiety At White House

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
THE Bush Administration, concerned about the rising dollar, appears to have ended its ''benign neglect'' for the time being and is working with other governments to push the currency down.
Yesterday, help came from abroad when the Bundesbank, West Germany's central bank, raised its key discount and Lombard rates a full percentage point and sold a lot of dollars. Other European central banks followed and the dollar fell - but briefly, and then went up again. The foreign-exchange markets had expected the move and had already factored it in. The markets remain uncertain, however, over how committed the United States and its partners in the Group of Seven, most importantly West Germany and Japan, are to pushing the dollar down, and holding it down, against market forces that have been pushing it up. 
The Bush Administration lacks credibility on its dollar policy. From the time it took office until just before last week's meetings in Washington of the International Monetary Fund and the Group of Seven, the Bush Administration had reverted to the benign neglect of the dollar followed by President Reagan's first Treasury Secretary, Donald T. Regan. In the second Reagan term, James A. Baker 3d moved to the Treasury and set the dollar on a downward course, fearful at last that the soaring dollar, once hailed as a mark of strength, was ruining the nation's trade position.
Similarly, the Bush Administration started out by passively watching the dollar climb from 123 to 145 Japanese yen and from 1.7 to 1.95 against the German mark - until shortly before last week's Group of Seven meeting. Does that constitute a ''Plaza II'' commitment, in the phrase of C. Fred Bergsten of the Institute of International Economics? Or is it only a temporary convenience?
If market forces - and psychology - continued to drive the dollar up, it could again undermine American exports, suck in a rising tide of imports, aggravate protectionist pressures and drag the United States into recession.
The White House, apart from its dollar anxieties, also wanted lower interest rates for domestic reasons, to ward off recession and spur economic growth, and had been leaning on the Fed to deliver lower rates. The Germans, for their part, were worried that a rising dollar - and falling mark -would intensify inflationary pressures in their country and throughout Europe. But the Japanese are not yet ready to go along.
And the markets don't believe this is Plaza II. Shafiqul Islam, the senior fellow for international finance on the Council on Foreign Relations, said, ''The markets are confused - they see the United States only half-committed to stabilizing exchange rates, acting in a sense of crisis, but unsure what the real problem is.'' The European and Japanese governments also continue to doubt that the United States is yet prepared to take the hard, fundamental steps needed to restore strength to the dollar. Mr. Islam says, ''They are asking, 'If the United States doesn't fix its own policy, why should others support the U.S.?' ''
More important than rhetoric to talk the dollar down, central bank intervention or even coordinated manipulation of rates is whether the United States is prepared to deal with the budget deficit. It lies at the root of the trade deficit, the savings shortage, the dependence on foreign capital and the high interest rates that push the dollar up.
As Ronald McKinnon of Stanford University observes, in a highly open economy only fiscal policy, which operates directly on the balance between savings and investment, can reduce a deficit in trade and the balance of payments. In the 1980's, he says, the American fiscal deficit created a savings deficiency, which has not been repaired.
The now-widening United States budget deficit, partly disguised by putting the savings and loan bailout and other items ''off budget'' while putting the Social Security trust-fund surplus on budget, threatens to keep the American trade position weak and increases the ultimate risk of future dollar devaluation.
With that risk of devaluation - and the fear that it will result in higher inflation - investors demand higher yields on dollar assets than on those denominated in yen or marks. The high-risk premiums built into United States interest rates shorten the time horizons of American business.
Thus, the chronic United States budget deficits, low savings rates, and high costs of capital are forces that underlie what Budget Director Richard G. Darman calls ''now-now-ism,'' the fevered search of Americans for deals with immediate payoffs. Dollar depreciation may be the unavoidable consequence of fiscal deficits, payments deficits, high interest rates and a loss of national competitiveness, but cannot provide a lasting cure for those ills, as the poor experiences of other debt-ridden countries have amply demonstrated.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INFLATION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); GERMAN MARK (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



169 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
3-Year Talks Pay Off For Chief of Pyramid

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
Shortly after joining the Pyramid Technology Corporation as chairman, president and chief executive three years ago, Richard H. Lussier began conversations with the American Telephone and Telegraph Company about possible collaborations. This week, the two companies said they would jointly develop a new series of minicomputer systems.
Pyramid, based in Mountain View, Calif., was a pioneer in the technology of reduced instruction set computing, or RISC, which allows a computer processor to operate faster by limiting nonessential tasks. With revenues of about $79.8 million in its 1988 fiscal year, Pyramid has grown 30 to 35 percent a year during Mr. Lussier's tenure. While healthy by most corporate standards, such results are lackluster compared with the 100 percent growth over the same period of other RISC manufacturers like Sun Microsystems Inc. 
Mr. Lussier, who is 51 years old, said this week's announcement marks a turning point for the company. ''The A.T.& T. deal is the opportunity to move out of the 30 percent growth mold and into a whole other level,'' he said. ''It tells everyone we've arrived. We are obviously ecstatic about it.''
AT& T's endorsement of and investment in Sun have been major factors in that company's success, analysts say. Pyramid's machines, which typically sell for $200,000 to $350,000, are larger than Sun's and more powerful than A.T.& T.'s own minicomputers, the 3B series, which will continue in production, Mr. Lussier said. A.T.& T. will sell both Pyramid's existing line, based on Pyramid's proprietary RISC processors, as well as the new jointly developed systems, which will use an industry-standard microprocessor.
Before joining Pyramid in November 1986, Mr. Lussier was president and chief executive of Verticom Inc., which he joined in May 1984. Before that, he was executive vice president and a director of the Masstor Systems Corporation. He was previously executive vice president and a director of the Itel Corporation, and has also held sales management and director positions at Honeywell Inc.'s electronic data processing division.
Mr. Lussier received his B.S. in economics from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., in 1960, and his M.B.A. from Boston College in 1967. He and his wife, Suzanne, have two sons: Mark, 21 and Kyle, 16.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); AXE (NYSE) (63%); HON (NYSE) (63%); HON (LSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (70%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (70%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); NAICS423610 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT, WIRING SUPPLIES & RELATED EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (63%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (93%); PYRAMID TECHNOLOGY CORP (91%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (70%); MASSTOR SYSTEMS CORP (64%); VERTICOM INC (64%); ANIXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (63%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); PYRAMID TECHNOLOGY CORP

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS MICROPROCESSORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); SALES & SELLING (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M; LUSSIER, RICHARD H ANN LIVERMORE (95%); 



170 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Record on Borrowing Can Help Trump's Bid

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump brings a strong staff and a solid record of repaying bank debts to his $7.1 billion bid for the AMR Corporation, but he suffers from an image as a corporate raider who may not be seriously interested in completing a transaction.
The billionaire developer has large real estate holdings that would be easy to borrow against, a long record for repaying his debts, and warm relations with his bankers that together allow him to borrow large sums at low interest rates. He has also assembled one of the best staffs in the property development industry and recently hired a veteran airline executive to run the Trump Shuttle, which was recently acquired from Eastern Airlines and quickly renamed. And Mr. Trump may be able to borrow more than AMR's assets alone would permit because the combination of American and the shuttle probably make the shuttle far more profitable. 
Yet professional traders and analysts note that Mr. Trump has in the past expressed interest in many public companies - including MCA, Pillsbury, Golden Nugget, Caesars World and Resorts International -without ever buying an entire publicly traded company. Mr. Trump's pledge to put up $1 billion of his money for the deal may strain even Mr. Trump's fortune, which has been estimated at about $1.7 billion.
 
Seen as 'Publicity Hound'
''I've always looked at him as a publicity hound,'' said J. Michael Short, an analyst with Wealth Monitors Inc., a stock research firm that watches the investments of prominent raiders to glean stock tips.
''Maybe the motive for him is that Marvin Davis and Al Checchi have had their name in lights recently and he hasn't,'' Mr. Short added, referring respectively to the billionaire bidder for the parent of United Airlines and to the new owner of Northwest Airlines.
In a letter to AMR's chairman and president, Robert L. Crandall, Mr. Trump said yesterday that he was ''prepared to commit at least $1 billion of equity to the transaction'' and that he believed he could raise the rest of the money needed to complete a $120-a-share deal.
''I've never been on a Trump job where there were financial troubles,'' said Irving R. Fischer, the chairman of HRH Construction, which has done a lot of work both for Mr. Trump and his father, Fred Trump, who is also a wealthy developer.
 
He Pays Well
Mr. Trump has gathered some of the best real estate executives in the country, Mr. Fischer said. ''He pays well and he's got an in-depth organization.
The AMR proposal itself was the work of only a handful of Mr. Trump's top aides, headed by Harvey I. Freeman, who led the Trump Organization negotiators in the purchase of the Eastern Shuttle, said Norma Foerderer, Mr. Trump's executive assistant. Also involved in the proposal was Susan M. Heilbron, who, like Mr. Freeman, is an executive vice president of the Trump Organization.
Robert Trump, Donald Trump's brother and also top adviser, was less involved in the work, Ms. Foerderer said. ''It happens to be the baby of Harvey Freeman.''
Donald Trump oversaw the proposal and should receive the credit, she said, declining to set up interviews with any senior managers.
 
More Lawyers Expected
Gerald N. Schrager, a partner at the law firm of Dreyer & Traub, advised Mr. Trump on the proposal. Mr. Schrager said that he had begun working with Mr. Trump's father 15 years ago and that he expected lawyers with more background in the airline industry to be brought in as the AMR proposal advances.
Mr. Trump brings competence as well as style, guts and foresight, to the airline industry, Mr. Schrager said, declining to elaborate.
Bear, Stearns & Company, a New York investment bank, has advised Mr. Trump on previous financial dealings and is said by traders to have been actively buying shares on his behalf in the last two weeks. Alan C. Greenberg, the firm's chairman, declined to address questions concerning Bear, Stearns's role in Mr. Trump's pursuit of AMR.
A professional trader said that the Federal Reserve might also cast a disapproving eye on bank lending to another highly leveraged airline. A spokesman for the Fed said the Government agency had cautioned banks on Feb. 16 about their lending to leveraged buyouts. He declined to comment on current airline takeovers.
 
No Pressure From Fed
But an official at a leading money center bank who asked not to be identified said the Fed had not expressed concern directly or indirectly about lending to airline deals.
Banking analysts differed on how easy it would be for Mr. Trump to raise several billion dollars. ''It's more difficult than it used to be'' said Edward T. Thompson, a vice president of Thomson Bankwatch, a bank credit rating and consulting firm.
Mr. Thompson cited recent limitations on the purchase of risky bonds by savings and loan institutions, and to the possible nervousness of foreign banks to lend after the Department of Transportation's expressions of concern about the participation of foreign airlines in acquisitions of United States carriers.
But James J. McDermott, Jr., a banking industry analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, was more optimistic. ''I think this is a deal the banks would want,'' he said.
In addition to the Trump Shuttle, Mr. Trump owns hotels in New York, casinos and hotels in Atlantic City and 27.2 percent of Alexander's, the department store chain.

GRAPHIC: Donald J. Trump, the New York-based developer, has offered to acquire the AMR Corporation, which owns American Airlines. (NYT/Jack Manning)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (95%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMR CORP; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RESORTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (94%); 



171 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Stocks End Day Mixed; Dow Up 2.47

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stocks ended narrowly mixed yesterday, as the Dow Jones industrial average rose modestly to yet another high.
After a seesaw session, the Dow ended 2.47 points higher, at 2,773.56. But declines on the New York Stock Exchange edged advances, 743 to 741. 
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added a scant 0.03, to 356.97, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index tacked on 0.07, to 198.05.
Volume on the Big Board dropped to 177.9 million shares, from 194.6 million shares on Wednesday.
Initially, stocks fell narrowly and broadly as investors took profits after the Dow Jones industrial average's more-than-80-point rise over the last four days.
A round of European interest rate rises, led by the Bundesbank of West Germany, also depressed domestic equities by making European currencies more attractive to investors.
In the end, however, the market showed amazing resiliency, analysts said.
''The West German central bank increasing interest rates was so widely anticipated that currency markets reacted well in advance of today's reality,'' said Bernard S. Spilko, a senior vice president at Zurich-based Bank Julius Baer in New York. ''In fact, after the rate rise news, the U.S. dollar increased in value as compared to other currencies.
He said the confidence of investors in the United States economic system, especially from foreign sources, should continue to have a positive effect and continue the rally in the stock market.
Among individual stocks, the story of the day was AMR, the parent of American Airlines. The issue soared 16 7/8 points, to 99 7/8, and was by far the most active stock on the Big Board on a volume of 8.4 million shares. Donald J. Trump proposed to pay $120 a share cash, or $7 billion, for the approximately 58.9 million outstanding shares of the airline, if AMR's management would cooperate in a friendly deal.
The sharp advance by AMR propelled the Dow Jones transportation average 31.65 points higher, to 1,498.76, one of its biggest daily gains in history. The record for the indicator is 1,532.01 set on Sept. 5 of this year. The biggest rise for the transports was on Aug. 7, when the average rose 94.06 points, or 7.52 percent, when the UAL Corporation soared 46 1/4 points, the first day of Marvin Davis's bid for the parent of United Airlines.
Yesterday, UAL dropped 1 1/4, to 281 1/2, on worry that Mr. Trump's bid for AMR would intensify the Government's scrutiny of leveraged buyouts in the airline industry.
Among other individual issues, Sears, Roebuck dropped 7/8, to 43 1/8. Analysts said the stock's price was depressed by a lower outlook for third-quarter earnings.
Active glamour stocks included USX, off 3/8, to 38 3/8; Paramount Communications, down 3 3/4, to 62; Chevron up 1 7/8, to 64 3/4; A.T.&T., up 1/4, to 45; Citicorp, off 1/2, to 33 7/8, and I.B.M., off 3/4, to 107 1/2.
Gold stocks fell across a broad front on the surge by the dollar. Homestake Mining slipped 1/8, to 15 3/4; ASA Ltd. was off 5/8, to 44 3/8, and Hecla Mining was off 1/4, to 13 3/4.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market value index added 0.07, to 394.43, while in over-the-counter trading the Nasdaq composite index rose 1.34 points, to 480.66.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AIRLINES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (61%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



172 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Precious Metal Prices Fall After Late Surge in Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Prices of precious metals futures slumped yesterday in a disappointed reaction to the dollar's late surge in value against other leading currencies. Energy futures retreated, coffee futures fell again and grains and soybeans were mixed. Livestock and meat futures were also mixed. 
Gold futures settled $3.60 lower across the board on New York's Commodity Exchange, with the contract for delivery in October at $363.40 an ounce. It was the biggest daily move in gold prices since Sept. 25, but the market did not fall out of its recent trading range. Silver was 8.2 cents to 9.3 cents lower, with December delivery at $5.243 an ounce.
The precious metals closely followed the action of foreign currencies, which rallied against the dollar early in the day only to end lower as the dollar advanced.
The early rally was set off by the decision of West Germany's central bank to raise two important interest rates a full percentage point, forcing other European countries to follow.
 
Crude Supplies Reported Ample
Heating-oil futures fell sharply and most other energy futures declined on the New York Mercantile Exchange, partly in reaction to reports indicating ample supplies of crude oil and refined products.
The Department of Energy's weekly inventory report showed larger-than-expected increases in American stocks of crude oil and gasoline. In addition, a monthly report from the International Energy Agency indicated that OPEC nations were producing crude oil at levels substantially higher than the 20.5-million-barrel ceiling set last month.
Coffee futures dropped to 14-year lows on New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, but losses were limited by signs that negotiators of the International Coffee Organization were making some progress toward a new price-support agreement. After the market had closed, the group's governing council passed a resolution to negotiate a new pact.
Corn futures prices rose moderately in active trading on the Chicago Board of Trade amid rumors of new Soviet purchases of American corn. Soybean futures retreated and wheat futures finished mixed, with no fresh export sales seen.
Hog futures rose sharply on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on expectations for higher cash prices. The rally lifted pork-belly futures and near-month live cattle futures, but feeder cattle prices retreated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; METALS AND MINERALS; PRICES FUTURES (96%); CURRENCIES (92%); METALS MARKETS (91%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (79%); COFFEE & TEA (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MINERAL MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); HEATING OIL (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 



173 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: U.S. JOBLESS RATE EDGES UP TO 5.2%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6

 BODY:
Factory employment took its biggest drop in nearly seven years in September as the nation's unemployment rate edged up one-tenth of a percentage point, to 5.2 percent, the Labor Department reported today.
Although analysts said the latest figures may overstate the decline in manufacturing, there was widespread agreement that the industrial sector is nearly stagnant.
The Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Dr. Janet L. Norwood, said the decline of 105,000 in factory jobs last month was most disturbing and noted that the weakness was widespread, with 16 of the 20 principal manufacturing industries reducing jobs.The loss of factory jobs since March, when growth halted, now totals 135,000. 
 
Big Fluctuation in Auto Industry
About one-third of the decline in factory jobs in September came in the automobile industry, where employment has fluctuated widely in recent months as producers sought to hold down inventories. That drop of 33,000 jobs at auto plants led to a 1.2-point jump in the unemployment rate in Michigan, where many of the plants are, to 8.1 percent from 6.9 percent.
In all, 119,158,000 Americans were employed last month - 117,456,000 civilians and 1,702,000 members of the armed forces stationed in the United States. The Labor Department's survey of households found that the total number of people employed fell by 127,000 last month while the labor force increased by 36,000. The ranks of the jobless thus swelled by 163,000, to 6,584,000, for an unemployment rate of 5.2 percent.
The unemployment rate for civilians only also edged up one-tenth of a point last month, to 5.3 percent.
 
New York's Rate Rises
In New York State, the unemployment rate rose sharply last month, going up four-tenths of one percentage point, to 5.4 percent, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. New Jersey's unemployment rate was essentially unchanged, at 4.6 percent.
Over all, there was a rise of 209,000 in jobs as measured by the Labor Department's separate survey of business payrolls. That increase included the return of 75,000 workers, most of them at telephone companies, who had been on strike in August. The August gain, meanwhile, was adjusted downward to 88,000 from the 110,000 first reported, with manufacturing accounting for two-thirds of the revision.
 
Easing of Credit Is Possible
The employment growth was on the lower end of what had been expected, a weakness that many analysts thought would be likely to nudge the Federal Reserve toward an additional easing of credit. But there were enough pluses in the report to allow the Federal Reserve to hold off on such a move, to await new data, like the producer price index to be reported next Friday.
A typical view was that of James D. Blumenthal, a director of BNY Securities, who suggested that any immediate cut in interest rates would reflect efforts to hold down the dollar in world currency markets rather than to head off any looming recession.
''It does give them the window if they wanted to cut rates for dollar reasons,'' he said.
Practically all of the rise in unemployment was among people seeking to re-enter the labor force after seasonal idleness or other absence.
 
Companies Not Adding Workers
''A lot of companies made a decision not to add workers as they usually do'' in September, said Thomas J. Plewes, a senior Labor Department official. There were five weeks between the August and September surveys instead of the usual four. Some analysts said the extra week might make the job data look a bit stronger, but Mr. Plewes said he could see no effect.
While the percentage of manufacturing companies adding workers was less than 35 percent last month, the lowest since November 1982, the news was not entirely grim. The length of the factory workweek edged up six minutes, to 41 hours, just short of the record for that measurement, and factory overtime climbed the same amount to 3.8 hours.
Continued long workweeks and large amounts of overtime are generally regarded as signs of eventual job gains.
Jobs in business services increased by 45,000 last month, the biggest jump in a year and a half, and health services posted a similar increase. There was a rise of 95,000 in government employment, mainly because of an increase of teachers at the beginning of the school year that was greater than usual. Construction jobs were unchanged, and employment slipped a bit in the mining industry.
The New York State rate of 5.4 percent was the the second highest this year. The highest was 5.8 percent in May.
''At the three-quarter mark, 1989 is shaping up as a year of significantly higher unemployment in New York,'' said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner for the Bureau of Labor Statistics. ''The New York economy is shifting to a considerably slower track than earlier in the 1980's.''
''Finance, trade and construction industries are either growing more slowly or not all this year,'' he added. ''Service-related industries are the only areas where there is growth last month.''
There were 8,182,000 people employed in the state in September, while 467,000 were unemployed, In New Jersey, the unemployment rate of 4.6 percent was virtually unchanged from the August rate of 4.5 percent, and the total number of people holding jobs remained constant at about 3,800,000. There were 186,000 people without jobs last month.
Slight gains in the service and financial industries have been offset by declines in the wholesale and retail trade in New Jersey, leading to the steady unemployment rate, Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
Today's report also showed these trends:
* A further decline, to 815,000 from 869,000, in the quarterly tabulation of discouraged workers who have given up looking for work because they think they cannot find it.
* Increases of five-tenths of 1 percent, after declines in August, in the average hourly and weekly earnings of production workers.
* A further climb, to 37.3 percent, in the unemployment rate for black teen-agers after it fell to 27.4 percent in July.
Of the 11 biggest states, nine had increases in their jobless rates, but the only one of statistical significance was Michigan's rise to 8.1 percent from 6.9 percent. The only significant improvement was the 1.2-point decline, to 6.3 percent, posted by Texas.
The Northeast, Midwest and West had modest increases in unemployment, while the South, where the level remains the highest, had a modest decline. Unlike the national figures, these are not adjusted for seasonal variation.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the increase in the jobless rate; employment figures for June, July, August & September; the biggest states of civilian unemployment (source: Bureau of Labor Statistidcs (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); LANSING, MI, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR, DEPARTMENT OF (US); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS)

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (73%); STRIKES (72%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



174 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: ISRAELIS REJECT CAIRO'S PROPOSAL ON MIDEAST TALKS

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 6

 BODY:
The Israeli Government today rejected an Egyptian proposal to convene preliminary Palestinian-Israeli talks in Cairo as a way of breaking the deadlock in stalled efforts toward peace.
Officials from the Labor Party, the junior partner in Israel's governing coalition, said the move thwarted the diplomacy of peace and could lead to a Government crisis in Israel. They said the United States must overcome its reluctance to intervene formally in peace efforts with new proposals acceptable to Labor and the dominant Likud party.
In Washington, Bush Administration officials said they saw the rejection as a temporary setback in efforts to organize a dialogue. They said the Israeli deliberations were marked by confusion over an Administration proposal for talks involving Israel, Egypt and the United States to break the present impasse. [Page 4.] 'Rejection of Mubarak's Proposal' 
''I believe that the decision today by the Cabinet is a great missing of an opportunity to allow the peace process to go ahead,'' Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin of the Labor party said in an interview in Tel Aviv after the Cabinet meeting.
''For all practical purposes, it is a rejection of Mubarak's proposal to bring about a meeting between an Israeli and a Palestinian delegation,'' he said, referring to President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. Asked if the dispute between Labor and Likud could bring down the coalition, he said, ''It's one of the possibilities.''
Since Thursday, the inner Cabinet of 12 senior ministers, six from Likud and six from Labor, has been meeting to consider President Mubarak's invitation to Israelis and Palestinians to meet for discussions on elections in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.
 
Dispute on Palestinian Delegation
At Thursday's session, Labor proposed that the invitation be accepted, but a vote at today's meeting produced a tie, meaning under Cabinet rules that it was rejected.
One of the central points of dispute within the Cabinet is the makeup of a Palestinian delegation, which Egypt proposes to name. Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, the Likud leader, says a delegation appointed by Cairo would be no more than a surrogate of the Palestine Liberation Organization. Israel outlaws all contact with the P.L.O., which it deems a terrorist group, and refuses to negotiate with it.
On Thursday, Likud officials said Mr. Shamir was ready to consider a compromise proposal that Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d was said to have made when he met Foreign Minister Moshe Arens of the Likud party in New York on Sept. 27. According to the Likud account, Mr. Baker suggested that the makeup of a Palestinian delegation be negotiated in a three-way discussion involving Israel, the United States and Egypt.
Labor Party officials said Mr. Arens was challenged on Thursday to produce the Baker proposal in writing and did not do so today.
 
U.S. Role Sought by Israelis
Mr. Arens told reporters that Labor had refused to wait for the American proposal to arrive. ''Instead of waiting for the proposal, they insisted on holding a vote when they knew beforehand they couldn't carry their proposal and I can only explain it on narrow party interests, not out of concern for peace or Israel's interests,'' he said.
Describing how events unfolded, Mr. Rabin said: ''We asked him to bring the American proposal of Secretary Baker and today we were told that he had not succeeded in bringing it about. And the Prime Minister said we have to continue the discussion on the basis that there is only one proposal.''
Labor thus faced a choice ''either to take back or to ask not to make the voting, or to vote,'' he said.
Mr. Arens said, ''I think if the proposal is presented as Mr. Baker presented it to me, it will be carried in the Cabinet.''
Labor has also indicated readiness to accept the American proposal, reinforcing the view that Labor and Likud want the United States to be drawn directly into the peace effort to overcome an impasse in Israeli politics that is compounded by divisions within Likud.
A factor in Likud's opposition to the Egyptian plan is the reality that Labor would probably face a difficult time at the polls if it chose to bolt the coalition now and force new elections. The poor state of the economy, and not the peace process, would likely be the dominant issue in elections, and Labor is seen as vulnerable because its leader, Shimon Peres, holds the Finance Ministry.
 
Revolt and Election Proposal
In the interview, Mr. Rabin drew parallels between the close involvement of the Carter Administration in negotiating peace between Egypt and Israel in the late 1970's and the absence of new Middle East initiatives from the Bush Administration.
The last major American initiative in the region took place 18 months ago, when George P. Shultz, who was then Secretary of State, toured the region.
There was no immediate reaction to the Israeli decision from Palestinian leaders here, who said earlier this week that they viewed the Egyptian proposal for negotiations in Cairo as a possible way of unlocking the peace effort.
For the last 22 months, Palestinians in the occupied territories have challenged Israeli dominance with an uprising that has claimed more than 700 lives, most of them Palestinian.
The revolt prompted a general Israeli proposal in May for elections in the occupied territories to choose Palestinians to negotiate limited self-rule, and the Egyptian proposal that Palestinians and Israelis hold direct talks to work out terms for holding the elections.
 
Cairo Plan's Unresolved Issues
The P.L.O. and many Arabs have dismissed the Israeli proposal because it offers too few potential political gains. Now Israel has rejected the Egyptian proposal because Likud sees it as a cover for talks with the P.L.O.
The Egyptian invitation left several issues unresolved. It did not, for example, insist that the Palestinian-Israeli talks be held on the basis of a 10-point list of principles that Cairo has offered as a blueprint for holding elections and negotiations on a peace settlement, Government officials said.
Those include demands that Mr. Shamir rejects, notably the idea that Israel trade occupied territory for a peace settlement.
The Israeli Government has not formally responded to the 10-point Egyptian list and sees the points only as a statement of Cairo's position, the officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF; ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES) HOSNI MUBARAK (89%); 



175 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: We Need Many More Computer Scientists

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Bush Plan Would Aid Computing,'' (Business Day, Sept. 8) offers a useful discussion of ''The Federal High Performance Computing Program'' report and of the related Gore-Jeffords bill.
But, while only about 250 Ph.D.'s in computer science were awarded in 1985, and this number was little higher in the preceding decade, studies conducted by the Computing Research Board show that since 1985, this figure, and the figure for computer engineering, have been increasing, not decreasing. For example, Computing Research Board data show more than 500 Ph.D.'s in computer science awarded in 1988.
Yet, despite the 1985-88 increase, current Ph.D. production does not meet current needs, much less projected needs. For example, the computing report calls for more than 1,000 Ph.D.'s in computer science by the mid-1990's. The information industry even now accounts for more than 10 percent of our gross national product. At the same time, very few faculty members in computer science and engineering programs in four-year colleges have Ph.D.-level training in computer science or engineering.
Thus, even the target of 1,000 Ph.D.'s is probably too low to meet the needs of industry and academia.
The increase in Ph.D.'s in computer science and engineering in the mid-1980's grew out of improvements in the universities' computing research infrastructure. Rapid development and modernization of our computing research infrastructure is essential if we are to attract and train the students, at all levels, that this country needs to maintain its primacy in computing.
 
PAUL YOUNG
Chmn., Computing Research Board
 Washington, Sept. 14, 1989

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COMPUTER SCIENCE (95%); ENGINEERING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, PAUL CHRISTIAN PIERRET (51%); 



176 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: To Be Young and in China: A Colloquy

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
The poem seemed to express an individual yearning, a personal agony only tenuously related to the pro-democracy slogans recently heard in China. But Wuer Kaixi, the 21-year-old exiled student leader who read his short verse at a public meeting in lower Manhattan on Wednesday night, said it reflected the inner life of the student uprising, its wellsprings in alienation and thwarted idealism. The verse goes: I pour my heart out to the white cloud, I, the homeless wanderer. O, float back to my native land And drop the tears I shed for my mother.
Mr. Wuer was among several Chinese student leaders, writers, poets and American scholars at the meeting sponsored by American PEN, the organization of writers that promotes free expression. The ostensible subject was the struggle for human rights in China. But many simply spoke of China's contemporary youth culture, using it to explain the forces that pushed thousands of young Chinese to risk their lives confronting troops during the recent upheaval in Beijing. 
Several themes emerged. One, discussed by Mr. Wuer and other student leaders, was that the students who occupied Tiananmen Square in Beijing in May and June were very different from their elders; they are of a generation, influenced by Western ideas, that is restive under the weight of China's tradition of obedience and insistent on sexuality and feelings.
 
The Favorite Word Is No
Mr. Wuer compared traditional Chinese culture and what he called its complete negation of the individual and patterns of well-defined hierarchical personal relationships with the emerging youth culture of China, with its stress on immediacy, sensation and the self.
''In recent years Chinese college students have been rebellious against all sorts of authority,'' he said. ''The favorite word among the youth in China is No.''
''You might find it strange, but I do not,'' he said, ''that one aspect of our movement was the student who stood naked on top of a university building shouting, 'I am what I am.' '' But because the preoccupation with who they are is ''totally contradictory to the reality of our system,'' Mr. Wuer continued, young people are ''lost and disoriented.'' They seek identity and consolation in part from the songs and poems that Mr. Wuer described as the cultural accompaniments to the political movement.
Among the most popular songs is one that begins ''I am a wolf from the north'' and then describes a kind of lonely wandering through a desolate land, a wandering full of longing and nostalgia for ''that beautiful prairie'' that is, it seems, a land of unfulfilled dreams.
Mr. Wuer said volumes could be written to explain the sensibility behind the words of that song and why it appealed so strongly to young Chinese. The image of the wolf, a lonely, isolated creature, is an uncomfortable one in the context of Chinese culture, with its stress on the family and the group. The song, which could be heard playing on hundreds of little tape recorders during the students' two-month occupation of Tiananmen Square, was an expression, he said, both of the students' despair and of their idealism. The students found meaning in the image of the lonely wanderer trapped in a bitter, empty landscape. They dreamed at the same time of something better.
 
Greater Sexual Freedom
Mr. Wuer's remarks and those of other student leaders now in exile in this country led a Western participant, Robin Munro, a reasearcher on China for Asia Watch, to talk of a ''political economy of libido moving from a primitive to a more advanced stage'' among China's young people.
Mr. Munro was speaking of remarks by some student leaders that the experience of greater sexual freedom was an important part of the democracy movement. The students gave no details, but they seemed to be describing an element in Mr. Wuer's notion of increased attention to the self, one not all that different from the sexual liberation experienced by students in the United States during the protests of the 1960's.
In the past, Mr. Munro said, the sexual energy of Chinese students had been channeled by Chairman Mao Zedong into a frenzied, proto-fascist worship of himself, particularly during the Cultural Revolution of the late 1960's and early 70's. This time, he said, the youthful libido found an entirely different expression, in both a new exaltation of selfhood and in political outrage at the conservative gerontocracy bent on imposing its values and its will on its children.
And that, in turn, was related to another issue arising at the colloquium: whether China's hostility toward greater freedom is embedded in the nation's traditional culture or whether it is something that comes from 40 years of Communist rule.
 
The Effect of Tradition
Jonathan Spence, a historian of China who teaches at Yale, enumerated aspects of the Chinese tradition that seemed to explain the country's modern-day dictatorial nature and the violent suppression of the democracy movement in June. Specifically, he said, there has long been a tradition of protests by intellectuals against immoral leaders and an even stronger tradition of repression, all of which was played out in Beijing this year.
''China has never been able to come up with a concept of a loyal opposition,'' he said. ''For 3,000 years, the authorities have tried to keep people from getting together and speaking freely.''
A different view was offered by Su Wei, a writer and critic who escaped from China in June. Mr. Su said that the last 40 years had imposed on China a ''Communist Party culture,'' which, he said, is similar to the culture of underground organizations. Each person, he said, has to answer to the Communist Party, or, more specifically, to one of the Communist Party warlords, since the party itself is divided into factions.
''That's where you get your culture, your identity,'' Mr. Su said. ''It's very similar to the society of the Mafia.''
Thus, in Mr. Su's view, China's present circumstances are more a product of this ''Communist culture'' than they are of tradition. One result of the Communist culture, he said, has been ''the systematic destruction of the most brilliant in China.'' The ''best and the brightest,'' those who show independence of spirit, are crushed, leaving behind ''the most retarded, the most dictatorial, and the most moronic.''
Moreover, the methods used by the cultural authorities have given rise to new and malevolent cultural traditions, Mr. Su said. He identified these as the tradition of lying, the tradition of threat and the suppression of memory.
''This is what we have to fight against,'' he said. ''It is a culture dominated by the party that has suppressed free thought and is sustained by lies, by threats and by a requirement to forget.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Wuer Kaixi, an exiled Chinese student leader, at a human rights conference Wednesday in Manhattan. With him was a translator. (NYT/G. Paul Burnett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEN AMERICAN CENTER; POETS PLAYWRIGHTS, EDITORS, ESSAYISTS AND NOVELISTS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS WRITERS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POETRY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSIC (84%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (69%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 



177 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Panama Opposition Chief in Refuge in Vatican Mission

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Oct. 6

 BODY:
The leader of Panama's democratic opposition has taken refuge in the Vatican diplomatic mission here, diplomats and supporters said today.
The opposition leader, Guillermo Endara, sought temporary asylum on Thursday night after soldiers ransacked his offices and briefly detained him and a dozen associates.
Several times earlier in the day, Government agents in civilian clothes fired in the air and prevented visitors from entering the political headquarters.
While the soldiers were tossing furniture, files and telephones around the storefront headquarters, thugs with clubs chased journalists away, stealing cars, equipment and money from several of them and beating a photographer for The Associated Press. 
 
Crackdown by Noriega
Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, the Panamanian leader, outlined a campaign against his enemies in a speech Thursday, apparently in reaction to a failed coup attempt on Tuesday and to an effort by the opposition to further cripple him economically. He assailed the United States for supporting the coup attempt and asked, ''How can we have a democracy when we're under such pressure?''
Opposition leaders said they believed that General Noriega moved against Mr. Endara, who was the apparent winner of the presidential election in May, to force an end to a hunger strike that he started on Sept. 20. The opposition leader was trying to dramatize opposition calls to Panamanians to delay paying taxes and utility bills and to stop spending money in Government-run casinos and the national lottery.
It was not clear whether Mr. Endara had interrupted his strike, but General Noriega succeeded, at least, in preventing him from continuing the protest in public view on a hospital bed behind the plate glass windows of the downtown headquarters.
As the United States has been trying to bring down the general with political and economic pressure, it has been lauding the opposition.
 
Visited by Bush Aide
Last Saturday, Everett Briggs, a former Ambassador to Panama and now a special assistant to President Bush for national security, flew here to visit Mr. Endara.
''I came here to greet a great person,'' Mr. Briggs told reporters later, ''the president-elect, the person who should be president of the country, the person who will be president of the country. He is a person that we Americans and the entire democratic world recognize as the real representative of the great people of Panama.''
Some Western diplomats said they believed General Noriega was trying to drive Mr. Endara out of the country. But many of Mr. Endara's backers said they did not expect a great increase in pressure against the democratic opposition. Instead, they said they expected him to direct his ire mainly at soldiers and Government employees he regards as disloyal.
Some of General Noriega's closest military aides turned against him in the coup attempt. While the gun battle for control of the Government was under way neither Francisco Rodriguez, the general's hand-picked President, nor any other senior Government official demonstrated support for their leader.
In fact, at midday, when the rebels announced that they had toppled the general, parties reportedly broke out in some Government ministries, and in some offices, official portraits of the general were gleefully ripped down.
 
Planning to Lie Low
Guillermo Cochez, a former member of the House of Representatives and now a prominent opposition figure, said the opposition was planning to withdraw into the background as General Noriega carried out his purge and to concentrate mainly on rallying international pressure against the regime.
''We have to wait until this action plays itself out,'' he said. ''To provoke them now would be a stupidity. The main obligation of the political opposition now is not to be arrested, to keep a low profile.''
Mr. Endara was freed from custody Thursday night through the intercession of Tomas Lozano, the Spanish Ambassador, according to a spokesman for the Spanish Embassy.
The spokesman said that the Ambassador had telephoned President Rodriguez to request Mr. Endara's release and that within an hour the opposition leader was handed over to Msgr. Jose Sebastian Lavoa, the Vatican's senior diplomat in Panama.


GRAPHIC: The building was heavily damaged in the coup attempt. (Reuters)
Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, who has announced a crackdown on his opponents in the wake of the attempt to overthrow him Tuesday, inspecting his freshly painted headquarters yesterday in Panama City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); 

COUNTRY: PANAMA (96%); HOLY SEE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: ASYLUM, POLITICAL; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT RELIGION (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); COUPS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); VEHICLE THEFT (70%); WRITERS (70%); LOTTERIES (66%); 

PERSON: ENDARA, GUILLERMO; TREASTER, JOSEPH B; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



178 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
Israel rejected an Egyptian proposal to convene preliminary Palestinian-Israeli talks in Cairo as a way of breaking the deadlock on peace efforts. Labor Party officials criticized the rejection. Page 1
 
The U.S. called Israel's rejection of talks with Palestinians only a temporary setback. Washington officials said they are moving ahead with efforts to organize such a dialogue. 4
 
Two Swiss with Red Cross are abducted in Lebanon 4
 
U.N. condemns Israel's tactics in quelling the Arab uprising 4
 
Hungary's Communists must change, and seek ''a synthesis to be created from the coming together of social democratic and Communist traditions, values and practices,'' a top party leader said. 1
 
Bulgaria plans to liberalize slowly, officials say. Although they are Moscow's most faithful ally in the Eastern Europe, Bulgarians say the Soviet Union is reshaping itself at an unsafely quick speed. 5 
 
In East Berlin, President Gorbachev demonstrated a measured solidarity with East German Communists, and he declared that Moscow would not interfere with the leadership's problems. 5
 
Poland details economic change 2
 
A Panamanian leader took refuge in the Vatican diplomatic mission on Thursday after soldiers ransacked the opposition leader's offices and briefly detained him, diplomats said. 3
 
Bush, under fire, defends role in Panama crisis 3
 
Harsud journal: Water, water everywhere? 4
 
National 6-9, 24
 
The Senate refused to repeal a law that expands the health benefits for 33 million Medicare beneficiaries. It then voted unanimously to scale back the plan significantly and eliminate the surtax that finances it. 1
 
Senate roll-call 8
 
Senators appear to be nearing a deal that would give President Bush the permanent reduction in the capital gains tax that he promised in the 1988 campaign. 1
 
Factory jobs dropped sharply in September as the nation's unemployment rate edged up one-tenth of a percentage point to 5.2 percent, the Labor Department reported. 1
 
Bonds soar on signs of weaker economy 31
 
Dow up 11.96 on job data 34
 
Women's campaign for pay equity is sputtering in the courts but flourishing at the bargaining table. The trend is bringing major pay upgrades to many jobs traditionally held by women. 1
 
To stop a spread of computer viruses from disrupting computer systems, some programmers are crafting a breed of ''anti-viruses'' to hunt down intruders. Some question the wisdom of these high-tech vigilantes. 1
 
Smoke suffocated nine old people in Norfolk, Va., after a discarded match or cigarette ignited a rubber mattress in a nursing home, the city's Fire Chief said. 6
 
Dick Thornburgh flew to Honolulu with five aides last August aboard an otherwise empty 727. The trip occured two months after the Justice Department limited travel. 7
 
Cyst is removed from President's finger 7
 
A civil rights panel rebuked its chief, William Barclay Allen, for deciding to appear at a symposium on homosexuality sponsored by an evangelical church group. 6
 
Louisiana hopes to ban all abortions under an old law that was invalidated by Roe v. Wade. State lawyers went to court to revive the law, which had been seen as one of the nation's harshest. 9
 
Plutonium escaped into an air duct at one point in the Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant, and there was enough of it to cause an accidental nuclear reaction, a study said. 6
 
Downed power lines are more deadly after a hurricane than the fierce winds and sea surges of the hurricane itself, according to a study of Hurricane Hugo in Puerto Rico. 7
 
Young & Rubicam was indicted along with two of its executives. The agency is charged with using almost $1 million to bribe Jamaican officials to obtain the Jamaica Tourist Board's advertising account in 1981. 31
 
U.S. journalist cleared in libel suit by former Indian leader 24
 
Iowa farmers are unearthing clues to jetliner's fatal crash 6
 
American Airlines company likely to rely on workers' stake 31
 
Harsh setbacks are forcing new retail owners to sell 31
 
Regional 25-28
 
New drug treatment ''campuses'' that would care for more than 1,000 addicts each are expected to be proposed by a state panel. The centers would be situated on state or Federal land. 25
 
Alcohol is still popular among youths in the suburbs, while crack and other hard drugs have not really penetrated middle-class areas, experts say. But anti-drinking campaigns may be making some progress. 25
 
A Federal judge is being attacked by Alan Dershowitz, a Harvard law professor. Mr. Dershowitz wants to prevent John Walker, who is President Bush's cousin, from moving up to the Appeals Court in Manhattan. 25
 
Many potential voters for Giuliani in New York City's mayoral race live in the Douglaston and Little Neck sections of Queens, where registered Democrats have been known to vote Republican. 25
 
Rudolph Giuliani borrowed $200,000 from the Republican state committee to pay for television commercials, according to his financial report. 27
 
Candidates parade for Columbus, and stump for votes 27
 
Five exchanges may leave New York for Jersey City. Seeking more space, the commodity exchanges are talking to city officials on both sides of the Hudson River to see which could provide better inducements. 27
 
New Jersey is to free 173 suspects from the overcrowded Essex County Jail under a Federal judge's novel order to use taxpayers' funds as bail money. 26
 
Coal mine strikers in Greenwich? Miners from western Virginia have been marching on downtown Greenwich Avenue to shame a Connecticut-based company. But they do not seem to have had much success. 26
 
A plan to restrict horse-drawn carriages is vetoed by Koch 28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EGYPT (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LEBANON (92%); BULGARIA (90%); HUNGARY (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%); HOLY SEE (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); WOMEN (77%); TRENDS (75%); POLITICS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); RELIGION (68%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (66%); GENDER EQUALITY (65%); EQUAL PAY (65%); MEDICARE (64%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



179 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: Drinking Keeps Its Grip on Suburban Teen-Agers

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
While cocaine has dominated public concern about drug use, alcohol remains the drug of choice among suburban teen-agers, like those in Westchester County.
Drinking remains more prevalent among high-school seniors than among adults, national surveys show, and many experts believe alcohol has become a cornerstone of high-school life.
Mention crack, and Kim Bulger, an animated 17-year-old from Rye Brook, N.Y., frowns disapproval. Mention beer, and she brightens. ''Everyone drinks,'' she said. ''We drink to get drunk. It's fun.'' Substance-abuse experts say that many teen-agers appear to have embraced alcohol as the one safe drug, and that their drinking comes almost as a relief to parents terrified of crack. 
 
'Given Up the Battle'
''It's unfortunate, but to some extent we have, as a society, given up the battle to get students not to drink,'' said Abby Hirsch, a guidance counselor at Hastings High School in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and adviser to the high school's chapter of Students Against Driving Drunk, known as SADD.
''In fact,'' she said, ''one of the problems with SADD is the implicit admission that students do drink.'' The group has chapters in 15,000 high schools and 4,000 junior high schools across the nation.
The concern about alcohol has risen despite surveys showing that the percentage of students who drink has fallen, in line with a decline in the general population. This decline comes after years of school anti-drinking programs, and after the last state with a drinking age of 18 returned it to 21. New York did so in 1985.
But those who work with young people now are concerned that alcohol is so rooted in the lives of teen-agers - as it is in the lives of many of their parents and society at large - that complacency about teen-agers' drinking will only grow as people become more intolerant of deadlier drugs.
''This has taken a backseat to hard drugs, but in our community and in the suburbs generally, teen-age drinking is by far our biggest problem,'' said William Shuluk, a police officer who monitors the activities of minors in Dobbs Ferry, on the Hudson River.
The street drugs common across the border in sections of New York City do have a grip on the few urban pockets in Westchester, but educators, law-enforcement officials and young people say crack and most other narcotics are rarely seen in the suburbs, whether modest or wealthy.
''Beer is the way you get high,'' said Dr. Robert Mackin, the principal of Fox Lane High School in Bedford, an affluent town in northern Westchester. ''If you see any peer pressure among the kids as it relates to drugs and alcohol, it is against using hard drugs.''
Weekends for many teen-agers revolve around drinking beer - whether from kegs or bottles, in parks or kitchens, with or without parents present. And today, it is not uncommon for elementary-school students to begin experimenting with alcohol.
Westchester is not unusual. Across the United States, alcohol eclipses all other drugs tried by high school students. According to a survey by the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan, 64 percent of 16,300 high school seniors surveyed in 1988 had drunk alcohol in the last month, compared with 18 percent who had smoked marijuana and 1.6 percent who had smoked crack.
Westchester, a county of 890,000 people, has, like many large suburbs, long waged a campaign against underage drinking.
 
'To Rebel, to Defy - to Drink'
Yet there is a growing sense among the campaigners that, while they may be able to prevent drunk students from climbing behind the wheel of a car, they cannot prevent them from becoming drunk in the first place.
''What's part of the adolescent stage of development is the need to rebel, to defy authority - to drink,'' said Larry Posner, a supervisor of Student Assistance Services, a nonprofit Westchester organization fighting student substance abuse. ''So I don't think we can eliminate it. That would be a fantasy. But we can try to control it.'' The county's greatest effort in recent years has centered on reducing drunken driving by teen-agers. About half of the 35 school districts have ''Safe Rides'' programs in which sober students drive intoxicated ones home from parties on weekend nights. Two thirds of the high schools have SADD chapters, and a course emphasizing the dangers of drunken driving has reached 20,000 students.
The efforts have not been restricted to Westchester's high schools. This year, a county-financed program on substance abuse for all sixth-graders was extended to the fifth grade. And in its third year is a mini-course for parents called ''Talking to Your Kids About Alcohol.'' Student Assistance Services furnishes 36 high schools and 17 middle schools with counselors specializing in drug and alcohol abuse.
 
'Current Drinkers' Decline'
In cities and towns across the country, anti-drinking campaigns may be producing positive results. Drug experts are buoyed by the steady decline in the last decade in students who say they are ''current drinkers'' - meaning they have had at least one drink in the last month. Surveys by the Institute for Social Research of high school students in their senior year show that alcohol consumption among them peaked in 1980, when 72 percent of students were ''current drinkers,'' compared with 64 percent last year.
But those same experts caution that 64 percent is still a lot. Furthermore, high school seniors are out-drinking the general adult population. Of 4,214 adults ages 26 and over surveyed last year by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, 55 percent said they had had at least one drink in the last month.
Surveys show that seniors have been out-drinking the population as a whole at least since 1972, the year the Institute began surveying them.
Excessive ''binge'' drinking is an even greater concern: more than a third of the high school seniors said that in the last two weeks, they had had had five or more drinks in a row.
 
'Who Can Pass Out First?'
''For some people, the idea is to see who can pass out first, or who is left standing,'' said Leonard Lombardi, a senior at Byram Hills High in Armonk, who said he goes to parties but rarely drinks. ''Everybody huddles around the keg and watches each other. It sounds stupid, but that's the half of it.''
''You just have a better time in general if you're drunk,'' said Karen Pellicone, 16, a junior at Port Chester High School. ''But it's really not true,'' she added, laughing, ''because half the time, the next morning, you can't even remember all the fun you had.''
Why do students drink? Teen-agers and adults point to a number of reasons: peer pressure, alcohol's general availability but alluring illegality to them, and its glamorous portrayal in advertisements. Some students say it relieves boredom, helps them relax, makes them feel sexy and gives them confidence in social situations.
 
'One or Two a Total Mess'
Some students interviewed scoffed at the legal drinking age, noting that most European countries let teen-agers drink and contending that most students they knew were able to handle alcohol. ''The laws are absolutely ludicrous,'' said Jordan Copeland, 16, of Hastings-on-Hudson, who said he drank in moderation at parties.
''There's always one or two people at parties who are a total mess,'' he said. ''But the majority are in complete control. And they watch out for those one or two and drive them home at the end of the night.''
By and large, students do not drink during the school week, and with the legal drinking age at 21, bars are out of bounds. But come the weekend, practically every town has at least one underage party, indoors or out.
''Each town has its place - the park in Dobbs Ferry, the woods in Hastings, the beach in Rye,'' said Ellen R. Morehouse, the executive director of Student Assistance Services, adding that fake identification cards, older siblings, friends and even parents all help teen-agers obtain beer, wine coolers and, to a much lesser extent, hard liquor.
 
'From Rye to Yonkers'
Unlike crack, which is confined mainly to poor urban neighborhoods, alcohol seems to cut across Westchester's socio-economic lines. ''The problems of alcohol abuse exist across the board, whether it's rural North Salem, suburban Rye or inner-city Yonkers,'' said Larry Posner, a supervisor of Student Assistance Services.
Drug experts and students say that in middle-class towns marijuana seldom circulates at parties now, and cocaine may be reserved for special occasions, like birthdays and graduation. LSD has made a minor comeback recently, but harder drugs, especially crack, are generally shunned.
''Drugs is nowhere near as popular as beer,'' said a 15-year-old Hastings High School junior and member of the SADD club and varsity soccer team, who requested anonymity. ''I don't think anybody in the school uses crack. Students joke around about it. But look at the effects of crack - you take it once and you're addicted. That's one good reason not to take it.''
Substance-abuse specialists say that the lack of compelling social choices for teen-agers is in some measure to blame for teen-agers' drinking. ''It's not as easy as saying, 'Okay, let's play Parcheesi,' '' Mr. Posner said. ''And it's partly the responsibility of adults to come up with alternatives, to acknowledge the fact that their children are bored and lonely and going through the hell of adolescence.''
 
Some Ground Children, Some Buy
Educators say parents play a vital role in shaping their child's attitude toward drinking. But in Westchester, parental response covers the spectrum. There are parents who ground their teen-agers caught with beer and object to Safe Rides because they feel it encourages drinking. Then there are parents who provide alcohol.
''I know parents who actually go out and buy a keg or beer-ball for their kids, set it up and just leave,'' said Mr. Lombardi, the high school senior.
Laws in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and many other states hold parents liable if a minor has a car accident after drinking in their home. It is also against the law in those states for an adult to sell or give alcohol to minors who are not their children.
But for many parents, drug experts say, there is sometimes a sense of relief that their children are dabbling in beer and nothing harder. ''When confronted, parents often say, 'Well, at least my child's not using crack,' '' said Ms. Morehouse.
''The attitude seems to be, 'So what if my kids drink on weekends so long as they get A's in school?' '' she said. ''But what's really important in life is not whether they get an A in physics, but that they learn to flirt, handle boredom, be intimate and socialize without the crutch of alcohol.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: LIQUOR; TEENAGERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); COCAINE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BEER & ALE (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); SUBURBS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W



180 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Five Exchanges Weighing Move To Jersey City

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The five commodity exchanges in New York, outgrowing their space in the World Trade Center, are considering moving to Jersey City and are talking to municipal officials on both sides of the Hudson River to see which could provide a better package of tax breaks and other inducements.
The exchanges, now in cramped quarters at 4 World Trade Center, provide jobs for 5,000 people, with 15,000 more indirectly involved. The exchanges pay tens of millions of dollars annually to the city and state, directly or through employees' taxes, exchange officials said. 
Z. Lou Guttman, chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the largest of the five, told reporters visiting the exchange yesterday, ''There's a premium we're willing to spend to stay in New York, but it's not a big premium.'' The reporters had gathered for a lunch to introduce the new president of the exchange, R. Patrick Thompson.
 
'Very Concrete Proposals'
Mr. Guttman said that the exchanges had considered seven sites and now had one prime site in lower Manhattan, a secondary site in that area and a prime site in New Jersey, which, he said, was less than 10 minutes from Manhattan by mass transit. Without naming Jersey City, said, ''The New Jersey entity is starting to make very concrete proposals.''
Officials in New York and Jersey City confirmed that they were discussing inducements with the exchanges. New York has programs to provide property-tax breaks, low-interest construction loans and other benefits. A spokesman for Jersey City, Roger Jones, said his city would stress a lower cost of doing business and the availability of land and workers.
The other exchanges are the Commodity Exchange Inc., the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, the Cotton Exchange and the New York Futures Exchange, which is affiliated with the New York Stock Exchange.
The Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, Stanley E. Grayson, said that New York had discussed offering inducements to the exchanges, but that they had not agreed among themselves exactly what they wanted to build or what kind of partnership they would form to do that. The five are independent, but have formed an organization to lease the space they occupy and handle housekeeping.
 
Collapse of 1985 Plan
The exchanges are scheduled to vote next month on how to proceed.
In 1985, the exchanges and the city agreed on the construction of a $500 million 56-story office building and adjacent 11-story trading space at the ramp of the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel. But after the stock market crashed, the Mercantile Exchange withdrew, and the deal fell through.
Mr. Guttman said the exchanges would like to build a $175 million to $225 million structure, with a trading floor of 55,000 to 60,000 square feet, unencumbered by columns, and a second area of equal size on a different floor, for future expansion. The exchanges would like to break ground next year and move by 1993, he said.
The exchanges' trading floor now is 25,000 square feet.
Robert W. McGrath, a spokesman for the Commodity Exchange who is designated to speak for the five exchanges, said the group was having ''discussions with the appropriate entities'' and was analyzing which sites would work financially and functionally.
''Before you can get to specifics of who can make the best offer, you have to look generically at what's there,'' Mr. McGrath said. The exchanges, he added, were considering what was needed for construction and what help was available.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ICE FUTURES US (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (59%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (59%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (59%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE; MERCANTILE EXCHANGE, NEW YORK; COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE, NY; COTTON EXCHANGE, NY; NEW YORK FUTURES EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; JERSEY CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: COMMODITIES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (94%); COMMODITIES TRADING (92%); FIBER MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FUTURES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (87%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); MAYORS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); COFFEE (68%); TRENDS (67%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



181 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1989

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 The Senate worked toward a deal that may give President Bush the permanent reduction in the capital gains tax that he promised in the 1988 campaign. The deal would provide for a vote in both houses within weeks. In exchange for the scheduled vote, Senate Republicans offered to end their efforts to attach a capital gains tax cut to a deficit-reduction package. [Page 1.] The nation's jobless rate edged up one-tenth of a percentage point, to 5.2 percent, in September. Factory employment took its biggest tumble in nearly seven years, a drop the Commissioner of Labor Statistics called ''most disturbing.'' Analysts said the latest figures may overstate the decline in manufacturing, but there was widespread agreement that the industrial sector has slipped into near stagnation. Bond prices rose in response to the unemployment news, because it raised the possibility of lower interest rates, and stock prices rose. [1.] Some companies, individuals and a Government agency are crafting a new breed of what have been called anti-viruses to hunt down disruptive software in computer systems. But the anti-viruses may themselves cause problems. [1.] The campaign for pay equity for women may be sputtering to a halt in the courts after a decade of defeats. But the movement has brought workers in several states multimillion-dollar pay upgrades at the bargaining table. [1.] Policy makers at the Federal Reserve decided to leave interest rates unchanged in late August. [32.] Consumer borrowing increased in August at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6 percent. [32.]
 
 
 
Companies
 Young & Rubicam and two of its executives were indicted on racketeering charges. The agency is charged with having bribed Jamaican Government officials with almost $1 million to obtain the Jamaica Tourist Board's advertising account in 1981. [31.] Lord Einstein O'Neill & Partners agreed to pay $7 million to WPP Group, the British advertising holding company. Lord Einstein was founded by American executives rebelling against WPP, which had taken control of their old firm. [31.] AMR, which owns American Airlines, is likely to put one-fifth of its stock into an employee stock ownership plan as a defense against a $7.5 billion takeover bid by Donald Trump, investment bankers and lawyers said. [31.] More stock traders are starting to take seriously the Trump offer to buy AMR. [33.] Evergreen Airways of Taiwan has signed deals with Boeing and McDonnell Douglas to buy as many as 26 jets. [33.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Prices of Treasury and corporate securities soared and yields fell as the Government's employment data indicated a further weakening of the economy. Yields on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond plunged to 8.01 percent. [31.] Stocks set their fourth consecutive record close. The Dow rose 11.96, to 2,785.52. For the week, the Dow rose 92.70. [34.] The dollar rose slightly, despite central bank efforts to rein it in. [31.] Coffee futures prices sank to 14-year lows. [39.] New York's five commodity exchanges are considering moving to Jersey City. [27.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Homeowners need replacement-cost insurance coverage, as victims of disasters like Hurricane Hugo quickly learn. And tax deductions may be much smaller than expected. Your Money. [32.] A G.E. researcher has invented an experimental alternator that he says cuts down on engine weight and is one-third more efficient at converting an engine's mechanical energy into electricity than conventional units. Patents. [32.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (69%); WPP (LSE) (69%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (69%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (69%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAMAICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WPP PLC (69%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); BOEING CO (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); INDICTMENTS (70%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (68%); BRIBERY (68%); LAWYERS (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); EQUAL PAY (66%); CONSUMER LENDING (64%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (63%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



182 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Resilient Dollar Up Slightly Despite Efforts to Rein It In

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The dollar rose slightly yesterday, despite efforts once again by the United States and its economic allies to rein the currency in.
The resilient dollar also shook off the September unemployment report, which showed a rise in joblessness to 5.2 percent, indicating that the economy is weaker than had been thought.
Despite this rally - and the rise Thursday in the face of European interest rate increases - some traders and economists said the United States and its allies in the Group of Seven are doing better in controlling the dollar than may be apparent from day-to-day movements.
This view contends that the policy makers' goal is to keep the dollar below 2 marks and 150 yen until the Federal Reserve decides it can lower interest rates - a move that would be expected to push the dollar lower. 
''They are trying to keep the dollar from exploding to a much higher level,'' said Peter Rona, president of the IBJ Shroder Bank and Trust Company in New York. ''But they are not trying to prevent it from rising.''
Traders said they would have expected the combination of widespread dollar selling and the jobs report to push the dollar lower. The Federal Reserve, the Bundesbank and the Bank of Japan sold dollars in Asia overnight. Other central banks joined the intervention in Europe, and the Fed sold dollars in New York.
Some analysts said the employment report could mean the Federal Reserve might ease interest rates before the end of the year, which would be sooner than generally expected. A decline in interest rates here, most traders said, is needed to knock the dollar lower.
After dropping initially on the report, the dollar rose through the day. It briefly passed the important 1.90 level against the mark but fell back in the face of intervention. By the end the day it had lost some of its steam as traders in New York sold dollars to square up their books ahead of the three-day Columbus Day weekend.
But the dollar still ended higher, at 1.8883, up from 1.8845 Thursday. The 1.90 level is believed to be the ceiling that the United States and its economic allies in the Group of Seven have set for the dollar. The ceiling for the yen is 140, and while the dollar moved further above that yesterday, ending at 142.43, up from 142.40, it was down from the day's high of 143.61.
Nicholas Sargen, director of bond research at Salomon Brothers in New York, said the dollar managed to rise after the unemployment report ''because the foreign exchange market is expecting that the Fed will be cautious'' and not move to lower interest rates until it has more proof that the economy has slowed down.
He said that the market's general expectation was that next week's inflation report would show that the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods, which declined four-tenths of 1 percent in August, would rise five-tenths of 1 percent. Such an increase would make the Fed, which is very worried about inflation, cautious about lowering interest rates, he said.
The dollar rose on Thursday after a coordinated round of interest rate increases in Europe, which normally would have knocked it down. This move was the lastest step in the effort to push the dollar lower. Two weeks ago the Group of Seven issued a communique in Washington saying the dollar was too high. Since then, the central banks of the leading industrialized democracies have used coordinated intervention to push the dollar down from 1.95 marks and 146 yen.
Mr. Rona said that he did not believe that the underlying economic support for the dollar was enough to push it above 2 marks and 150 yen, where it was earlier this summer.
Mr. Sargen said part of the demand for the dollar now was a result of the G-7's effort to knock it down. He said the aggressive intervention had also driven down bond prices. This meant that foreigners had seen both attractive prices for bonds and a lower dollar. But he expects that the G-7 can keep a cap on the dollar and prevent it from hitting new highs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



183 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: AMR Likely to Rely on Stake for Workers

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The AMR Corporation's most likely response to a $7.5 billion takeover bid by Donald J. Trump would be to move about a fifth of its stock into an employee stock ownership plan, investment bankers and lawyers said yesterday.
Such a move would make it difficult for Mr. Trump or anyone else to complete a hostile takeover, because AMR, the parent of American Airlines, is incorporated in Delaware, where the law makes it difficult to finance an acquisition unless at least 85 percent of the target company's stock is obtained.
An authority on employee stock ownership plans, known as ESOP's, Mario Baeza of the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton in New York, spent yesterday at AMR's headquarters in Fort Worth. Mr. Baeza, who did not return telephone calls seeking comment, has been helping AMR prepare its takeover defense for the last few weeks. In late August, Mr. Trump filed a Hart-Scott-Rodino report of his intention to buy more AMR stock. 
 
Some Defensive Buying
AMR shares climbed $3.875 yesterday to close at $103.75 on the New York Stock Exchange, on trading volume of 3.9 million shares. Although some speculators were buying, some institutions were making defensive purchases, said an arbitrager who asked not to be identified.
''Aggressive money managers can't run the risk of not having this in their portfolios in case it turns out to be good,'' he said. Such sentiment is especially strong because many money managers were skeptical about Marvin Davis's bid for the UAL Corporation in August and were slow to buy shares in the target company, the arbitrager said. The board of UAL, the parent of United Airlines, ended up approving a lucrative $300-a-share bid from the company's management and employees, a price nearly double the stock's level before the Davis bid.
The arbitrager added, however, that he was doubtful that Mr. Trump's interest would lead to a similar buyout of AMR.
If AMR does not adopt an ESOP, an investment banker with experience in airline deals said, alternative takeover defenses include selling a stake of 15 to 25 percent in the company to a foreign airline, selling or refinancing assets and subsequently declaring a special dividend and issuing special securities that would multiply and be hard to buy in a hostile tender offer. But others said all of these moves would have drawbacks for Robert L. Crandall, AMR's highly regarded chairman and chief executive.
Selling a large stake to a foreign airline would create an influence to rival Mr. Crandall's on the board and could be stalled by the Department of Transportation, they said. Asset sales and payment of a dividend would impair the ability of Mr. Crandall, who is fiercely competitive, to expand his airline at the expense of other carriers. And the issuance of special securities might antagonize the money managers whose support Mr. Crandall needs if Mr. Trump seeks to have Mr. Crandall replaced by using the ''consent solicitation'' clause in AMR's charter.
Mr. Trump could take advantage of the terms of that clause, which provides for the replacement of management by a majority vote of stockholders, if AMR puts 20 percent of its stock in the presumably friendly hands of its employees. But Mr. Trump is initially seeking a friendly transaction, said Jack H. Nusbaum, a partner of Willkie, Farr & Gallagher who is advising Mr. Trump.
''You would never start out with a consent solicitation,'' Mr. Nusbaum said. ''That's an option down the road.''
 
Bar to Self-Interest
Delaware's anti-takeover legislation bars a buyer of less than 85 percent of a company's shares from carrying out ''self-interested'' actions for three years. These include merging the acquired company with his own so that the acquired company's earnings can pay off debt incurred in the acquisition.
''He can replace the board, but he's still disabled from using the assets,'' said a lawyer who asked not to be identified. ''That's the way the Delaware statute really gets someone like Trump.''
A consent solicitation effort would require Mr. Trump to obtain a list of AMR's shareholders, which could mean a lengthy lawsuit, and then to wage an intensive telephone and mail campaign to persuade them that Mr. Trump could put in place a better management team than the current one. That might be difficult given investors' high regard for Mr. Crandall, two money managers said.
 
'We're Very Impressed'
''We're very impressed with what Robert Crandall has done with that organization,'' said Dale M. Hanson, chief executive of the California Public Employee Retirement System, which holds nearly 1 percent of AMR's stock.
Among the managers that Mr. Trump could propose might be the five executives who recently said they would leave Northwest Airlines, effective Oct. 15. Steven G. Rothmeier, the chairman and chief executive, and John F. Horn, the president and chief operating officer, both declined to comment yesterday, as did the other three executives.
A long takeover battle could turn into a test of wills that might go badly for Mr. Trump, several Wall Street executives said. ''Crandall is a beast,'' a money manager said. ''Crandall's going to have him for breakfast.''
 
Investment Bankers Line Up
Mr. Crandall appears to be well prepared. He retained two investment banks, Goldman, Sachs & Company and Salomon Brothers, in August to draft takeover defenses. He spent much of August and September lobbying in Washington to curb highly leveraged transactions in the airline industry and he has just returned from a two-week trip to Europe that included conversations with executives at European airlines, people close to Mr. Crandall said.
There is much at American Airlines to attract Mr. Trump. The airline is growing fast, has many strong hubs, little debt and would fit well with the Trump Shuttle, which Mr. Trump purchased from Eastern Airlines in June.
Combining the shuttle with American's international route structure would substantially increase business and profits on both, said L. John Eichner, an airline economics consultant who became head of strategic planning at American in 1961, right after Eastern started its shuttle. ''My very first assignment was how do we compete with the shuttle,'' he said. ''And we never did figure that out.''
 
UNION SEEKS TO HELP
 FORT WORTH, Oct. 6 (AP) - The head of American Airlines' second-largest union met with legal and labor advisers today to discuss possible ways to help management fend off the buyout proposal from developer Donald J. Trump.
Michael Kelleher, president of the 16,000-member Association of Professional Flight Attendants, was notified of the offer by management early Thursday. He talked with the advisers today in New York ''to prepare contingency plans in light of any events that may transpire,'' said Alan Fahringer, a spokesman for the independent union.
Officials of the other unions at American were not available to discuss the matter. Labor relations at the airline are widely considered to be good.

GRAPHIC: Graphs of the daily close and daily volume of AMR to Oct. 6, 1989 (Source: Interactive Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: DOVER, DE, USA (56%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (98%); DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMR CORP; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (ESOP); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (92%); TAKEOVERS (91%); AIRLINES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); DIVIDENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; BRADSHER, KEITH DONALD TRUMP (90%); 



184 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing Rate Up 6% For August

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6

 BODY:
Americans took out $3.48 billion more in consumer debt than they retired in August, the Government reported today.
In July, Americans had reduced their debt for the first time in two and a half years, but analysts had said they did not expect that situation to continue. July's decline was the first since January 1987, when consumer debt fell $1.63 billion, or 3.4 percent. 
''We really haven't become a nation of big savers,'' said Sandra Shaber, an economist at the Futures Group in Washington. ''People aren't tearing up their credit cards.''
The Federal Reserve Board said that consumer credit in August increased at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6 percent, compared with July's revised decreased rate of nine-tenths of a percent. The initial July report said consumer credit had fallen five-tenths of a percent.
The August debt rebound was expected because of strong sales of 1989 automobile models brought on by incentives and by price increases for the 1990 models. Auto loans, which fell 6.9 percent in July and 2.3 percent in June, grew by $400 million in August, or 1.7 percent at an annual rate.
The debt category that includes credit cards rose by $3.57 billion in August, resuming a 22.5 percent annual rate of increase. It had risen only 8.9 percent, to $1.41 billion, in July, down from a 20.1 percent increase in June.
Consumer spending, which represents two-thirds of all economic activity, is watched closely as a sign of economic health, particularly in light of efforts by the Federal Reserve to contain inflation by slowing the economy.
Bank and credit union loans not secured by real estate rose by $158 million, a 1 percent annual rate of growth. That compared with a 1.1 percent decline in July.
Mobile home debts fell $656 million, to a 33.3 percent annual rate of decline. This category has fallen for seven consecutive months, including a July drop of $56 million, or 2.8 percent.
The various changes left total consumer debt in August at a seasonally adjusted $703.8 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph of net change in total consumer installment credit (March 1988-August 1989 (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: FUTURES GROUP INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); MOBILE HOMES (50%); 



185 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Fed Left Rates Unchanged At August Policy Meeting

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6

 BODY:
Policy makers at the Federal Reserve decided to leave interest rates unchanged in late August, after a period earlier in the summer when they were nudging rates lower, according to minutes of the meeting released today.
The Federal Open Market Committee voted, 10 to 1, at its Aug. 22 meeting to make no changes in interest rates although it issued a directive that leaned toward easing credit if the economy weakened.
''For the period ahead, a steady course was desirable in light of the latest evidence suggesting that price pressures were not intensifying'' and the economy was continuing to grow at a moderate pace, the committee said. 
The Federal funds rate - the interest rate most closely watched for signals of Fed policy decisions - fell to 9 percent by late July from 9.75 percent in early June as the central bank eased credit amid signs of widespread weakness in the economy.
 
 Funds Rate Hovers Near 9%
 Since then, however, various indicators show the economy was not so weak as previously feared, and the Fed has made no further moves to ease credit conditions. The funds rate, the interest banks charge each other to make overnight loans, has hovered near 9 percent for the last two months.
The Open Market Committee, composed of Fed governors in Washington and five of the 12 Fed regional bank presidents, met again on Tuesday. The minutes of that meeting will not be released until after the next Open Market Committee meeting on Nov. 14, but private economists said they believed that the central bank had again decided to leave its credit policy intact.
The Labor Department reported today that the unemployment rate rose to 5.2 percent in September as manufacturing employment took the biggest one-month nosedive since the end of the last recession. But Allen Sinai, chief economist of the Boston Company, said he believed that it would take more signs of weakness than one month's unemployment report to convince the Fed to loosen credit further.
Roger Guffey, president of the Kansas City regional Fed bank, cast the only dissenting vote at the Aug. 22 meeting, arguing that inflation remained at unacceptably high levels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (65%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: CREDIT; RATES INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); RECESSION (76%); INTERBANK LENDING (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 



186 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY BRIEFS

 BODY:
* Banister Continental Ltd., Edmonton, Alberta, a pipeline, civil, marine and industrial construction company, said a joint venture in which its Foundation Co. of Canada Ltd. unit has a 45 percent interest had won a $100 million (Canadian) contract from Marathon Realty Co. for the construction of a waterfront project in Vancouver, British Columbia. Cana Construction Co. has a 55 percent stake in the project.
* Bank of the West, San Francisco, agreed to buy the Central Bank and CB Insurance Agency units of Central Banking System Inc., Walnut Creek, Calif., for $54 million in cash. 
* Cadbury Schweppes P.L.C., London, a food and beverage company, completed the acquisition of Crush, the carbonated soft drink business of Procter & Gamble Co., Cincinnati, for $220 million.
* Control Data Corp., Minneapolis, said the Army Corps of Engineers had awarded it a contract with a projected value of up to $365 million for an integrated worldwide network of computers.
* Flow General Inc., McLean, Va., a maker of advanced technology and specialized equipment, completed the sale of its biomedical business, Flow Laboratories, to ICN Biomedicals Inc., Costa Mesa, Calif.
* Major Realty Corp., Orlando, said stockholders at a special meeting had approved the previously reported merger agreement with Major Acquisition Corp., a unit of Stoneridge Resources Inc., Bloomfield Hills, Mich. for $13.50 a share.
* Maxus Energy Corp., Dallas, an oil and gas company, said a wholly owned foreign subsidiary had sold a 10 percent interest in a production-sharing contract in the northwest Java area of Indonesia for $100 million to Repsol (Java) Exploration and Production Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Repsol Exploracion S.A., a company of the Spanish group Repsol.
* United Technologies Corp., Hartford, said its Pratt & Whitney unit had received a $220 million order to supply F100-PW-220 engines for 60 F-16 A/B fighters that the Pakistan Air Force will purchase from General Dynamics Corp., St. Louis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARE (TSX) (95%); UTX (NYSE) (81%); ARB (NYSE) (70%); PGP (PAR) (70%); PG (NYSE) (70%); VRX (TSX) (69%); VRX (NYSE) (69%); GD (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (95%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (70%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (70%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (70%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (70%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (70%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (68%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (66%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (64%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (70%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (67%); VIRGINIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: AECON GROUP INC (95%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (81%); CADBURY LTD (71%); CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM INC (71%); ARBITRON INC (70%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (70%); CERIDIAN CORP (70%); VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL INC (69%); M P BIOMEDICALS LLC (69%); ACCEPTANCE INSURANCE COS INC (68%); MAXUS ENERGY CORP (67%); REPSOL EXPLORACION SA (66%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (64%); PRATT & WHITNEY (53%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANISTER CONTINENTAL LTD; MARATHON REALTY CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA)

SUBJECT: CONTRACTS REAL ESTATE (90%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); MERGERS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BEVERAGE MFG (75%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); SOFT DRINKS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (72%); ARMIES (70%); APPROVALS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); AIR FORCES (68%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); 



187 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 11.96, to 2,785.52, on Job Data

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Buoyed by an unexpected increase in unemployment for September and a sharp decline in factory jobs, blue-chip stocks rose to another record yesterday.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 11.96 points, to 2,785.52, as advances on the New York Stock Exchange exceeded declines by 780 to 667. Volume on the Big Board fell to 172.5 million shares, from 177.9 million shares Thursday. 
For the week, the Dow rose 92.70 points. The rise was the Dow's best weekly advance since it soared 114.86 points in the May 31-June 3 span in 1988.
Traders said fixed-income Treasury issues also advanced sharply on the belief that the information on jobs - unemployment rose one-tenth of 1 percent, to 5.2 percent, in September - would prompt the Federal Reserve Board to ease credit soon.
 
S.&P. 500 Up 1.81, to 358.78
 In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.81 points, to 358.78, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index edged up 0.89, to 198.94.
''For the week, the market gained more than 90 points, which hasn't happened more than a few times in the last decade,'' said Joseph H. Barthel, senior vice president and director of investment strategy at Hopper Soliday & Company in Philadelphia.
''Both the dollar and bonds have staged a rather remarkable rally in the face of what appeared to be negative news,'' Mr. Barthel said, such as the financial problems of the Campeau Corporation, the raising of German interest rates and the strong intervention of central banks to curb the strength of the dollar.
He said that although Wall Street was braced to buy on expected weakness, the market's failure to respond to bad news had caused cash-rich institutions to ''chase strength.''
Paramount Communications, which rose 3 3/4 Thursday amid speculation that it was considering a merger with a Japanese concern or that it might be acquired by Metromedia Inc., rose 5/8 yesterday, to 62 5/8.
 
Oil Stocks Strong
 Oil stocks rose broadly on the strength of Chevron's 1 1/4-point advance, to 66. Analysts said the company's stock was lifted by continued speculation that it might be restructuring. Elsewhere in the group, Kerr-McGee climbed 2 1/8, to 51 1/8; Phillips Petroleum 7/8, to 27 1/4; Texaco 1 5/8, to 53 1/4; Mobil 2, to 59 3/4, and Exxon 5/8, to 45 3/8.
AMR jumped 3 7/8, to 103 3/4, in response to Donald J. Trump's offer, announced Thursday to buy the company.
Among active issues, General Electric rose 1/2, to 58 7/8, and Bristol-Myers gained 1/4, to 54.
USX led the active list, up 1/8 to 38 1/2, on a volume of nearly 4.9 million shares. Late Thursday, the investor Carl C. Icahn said he had raised his stake in the company, apparently confirming recent rumors that he was increasing pressure on the company.
On the American Stock Exchange, the market-value index rose 1.50 points, to 395.93, while in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index rose 2.98 points, to 483.64.

GRAPHIC: Favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (81%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); CAMPEAU CORP (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); ACQUISITIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



188 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: For Airline Industry and Public, Tars Signal a Major Change

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
Takeover fever has gripped the airline industry, bringing major changes in ownership, giving employees new power and attracting outsiders with new visions of how carriers should be run.
But the trend, which intensified last week with Donald J. Trump's $7.5 billion bid to gain control of American Airlines, is loading carriers with debt and giving foreign airlines a chance to gain a foothold in the domestic market. It is also leaving some major airlines much more vulnerable to an economic downturn, which could lead to reductions in service and raise concerns about safety.
With Mr. Trump's offer for the AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines, three of the nation's largest carriers - American, United Airlines and Northwest Airlines - have become embroiled in takeover attempts or buyouts since last spring. The three represent almost half of the nation's airline seats. And industry analysts say Delta and USAir, which are profitable and dominant in their markets, could also become targets. 
''It's incredible,'' Paul Karos, a longtime airline analyst, said last week after hearing of the Trump bid. ''When is it going to slow down?''
The recent activity reflects a new attractiveness of the airlines, which have long been considered a glamour industry. Investors see a chance for a quick killing on undervalued assets and stocks, while visionaries want to redefine air travel and exploit its potential.
Mr. Trump, for example, is attracted to American, as he has been to acquisitions like the Plaza Hotel and the Eastern Shuttle, not only by the potential to make a lot of money but also by the prestige of the industry and owning what is considered a premier carrier.
 
No Spinoff Is Planned
''I would not spin off anything,'' Mr. Trump said in discussing his bid. ''I wouldn't want to do anything to change it. I would just continue what's been happening.''
On the other hand, Alfred Checchi, a former Marriott executive who led a group of investors in a buyout of the NWA Corporation, parent of Northwest, last month, said he planned to find new ways to keep people occupied while they are in airplanes.
''Air travel is going to be redefined,'' Mr. Checchi said in a recent interview, explaining that technology has opened up all kinds of new ways to entertain and inform fliers and to get them to try new products.
The airline industry has not always been so attractive. Deregulation in 1979 led many investors to shun the industry because the resulting uncertainty and change made it appear too risky.
This turmoil, which has still not ended for some carriers, was exemplified by financial troubles at carriers like Eastern Airlines and Braniff Inc., labor turmoil at Continental Airlines and mergers that disrupted carriers like Northwest. In addition, the low-cost carriers, like People Express, were unable to become viable forces.
But this upheaval has left a smaller number of larger, more powerful carriers, and as a result, the industry has been able to raise fares and make it more difficult for business travelers to use discount fares. Industry profitability has jumped and caught Wall Street's attention.
''There is a perception that the industry will be more stable and that it has created a better pricing discipline than has existed in the past,'' Mr. Karos said.
 
Concern in Washington
A central issue raised by the takeover wave is whether the industry, which at first resisted deregulation but has adjusted to many of the new freedoms, may find itself being put under more Government control.
The takeovers have also left some carriers, like Northwest, heavily indebted, under top managers who have little experience in the airline business and with a big portion of their stock owned by foreign airlines. Both the Bush Administration and Congress have expressed concern about the carriers' financial condition and the extent of foreign investment.
The Trump bid for American prompted members of Congress to renew calls for the speedy passage of legislation to require prior approval of such deals.
On Thursday, the Senate Commerce Committee approved its version of legislation that would require the Transportation Department to review airline takeovers in advance. And on Friday, a bill was introduced in the Senate that would increase competition among the nation's air carriers by forcing them to sell their computer reservation systems and give small airlines more flights at big airports.
In the case of Northwest, Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner has gotten Mr. Checchi to agree to cut back the amount of equity put up by KLM Royal Dutch Airlines in the takeover. The Secretary said he was concerned that foreign carriers could begin to exert too much control over major domestic airlines.
Curbs on investment by foreign airlines would also affect the acquisition of United's parent, the UAL Corporation, by the airline's pilot union and management, with the help of British Airways P.L.C. The deal would give employees 75 percent ownership of the airline and a major role in long-term decisions.
 
Marvin Davis's Role
One catalyst for the recent takeover activity was Marvin Davis, the California investor who bid for Northwest and United.
Mr. Davis said he was attracted by hidden values at the two airlines. Both had placed large orders for new planes, which could then be leased at much higher prices, greatly aiding repayments to banks that were asked to put up billions of dollars in financing for the takeover effort.
Another catalyst is jockeying by European carriers to form alliances with American carriers to help the Europeans compete when many of the European Community's restrictions on airlines are lifted by 1992. In the UAL deal, British Airways put up $750 million of the $1 billion in equity. Thus the investors had to risk a relatively small amount of their own money.
But the takeover wave is only part of a major change facing the airline industry.
Frank A. Lorenzo, the chairman of the Texas Air Corporation, has put Continental up for sale, and Eastern, another Texas Air unit, could face liquidation if it fails to revive under protection of Federal Bankruptcy Court.
Thus the remaining large, strong carriers could end up with major pieces of Mr. Lorenzo's empire, which represents about 15 percent of the industry's carrying ability.
 
Mixed Results for Consumer
And just last week, Braniff filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code for the second time in seven years, reflecting the hazards for smaller airlines that try to grow too quickly to stay competitive.
For the consumer, the trends could lead to mixed results.
''It can cut both ways,'' said Alfred E. Kahn, one of the main founders of deregulation and now a professor at Cornell University.
Alliances between foreign and domestic carriers, he said, could result in increased competition on domestic routes that will keep fares lower.
But alliances like the British Airways-United one could reduce competition on international routes, since they could inhibit domestic and foreign companies from challenging each other in markets like the trans-Atlantic one.
The need to repay the banks for the expense of takeovers could also put much greater pressure on the industry to raise fares.
 
Fares and Fringe Benefits
Lee Howard, an airline industry consultant in Washington, said that since the industry has shrunk to about six major carriers that control more than 90 percent of the traffic, it is in a much better position to control prices.
He said he expected major carriers to continue their efforts to limit business travelers' use of lower discount fares. He also expected the industry to further tighten restrictions on discount fares, like making some low fares nonrefundable if the buyer does not use the ticket for the flight he has booked.
On the other hand, Mr. Howard said, as fares rise, airlines will again have to provide more amenities and better service, like more convenient flights, to attract customers.
Mr. Kahn expressed another worry: If a sustained recession occurs, the airlines that have heavy debt and high interest costs will face great pressure to cut back on service and maintenance.
''They will be so heavily leveraged that even a mild recession could start to cause them to cut down on all sorts of operations,'' he said. ''This could end up in a major curtailment of service.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); UAL (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AMR CORP (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (70%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CREDIT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US AIRLINES (96%); TAKEOVERS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); MERGERS (79%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); CREDIT REGULATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS DONALD TRUMP (79%); 



189 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 36, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Forest Project Called Peril to New Jersey

BYLINE: By RICHARD SEVERO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TUXEDO, N.Y., Oct. 2

 BODY:
Two members of Congress from New Jersey and a water delivery expert warned today that the proposed development of 19,000 acres of Sterling Forest in southeastern Orange County could imperil the drinking water for two million residents of northern New Jersey and make them more vulnerable to floods.
The warnings were issued by Representatives Margaret S. Roukema, a Republican, and Robert G. Torricelli, a Democrat, and by Dr. Ella F. Fillipone, executive administrator of the Passaic River Coalition, an association of organizations that manage water supplies in North Jersey. They delivered their testimony at a daylong hearing conducted in Tuxedo Town Hall by Representative Peter H. Kostmayer, Democrat of Pennsylvania, who is chairman of the oversight subcommittee of the House Interior and Insular Affairs Committee.
The hearings were held because the forest's owner, the Ambase Corporation of Manhattan, wants to develop the pristine area, which has long been prized for its trails and wildlife. 
Robert E. Thomson, chairman of the Sterling Forest Corporation, a part of Ambase, told the hearing that development by his company would not transform the whole forest into a suburban development, but said the details have not been decided. His company is preparing a master plan for n the forest which it plans to make public next spring.
 
Peril to Reservoirs
The New Jerseyans said that their state's two most critical water supply reservoirs, Wanaque and Monksville, are fed by waters that drain from Sterling Forest. ''We cannot afford to have massive amounts of siltation, lead, chlorides, pesticides and fertilizers pollute the rivers, streams and creeks which enter New Jersey from New York State,'' said Dr. Fillipone.
Dr. Fillipone also warned that overdevelopment in Sterling Forest might increase the risk of floods in the central Passaic River Basin. Sterling Forest contains some 21,000 acres of land in all, 2,000 acres of which are in New Jersey and already in the control of Passaic County.
Mr. Torricelli warned that New York State should not permit Orange County to repeat the mistakes made in the massive development of North Jersey. In recent years, Orange County has been the fastest-growing in the state and one of the fastest-growing in the nation. Mr. Toricelli said that because New Jersey permitted overdevelopment years ago, $1 billion is now being spent to correct flooding problems that development in the forest could make worse.
 
Debate on Taxes
Michael J. DiTullo, president of Orange County Partnership, an economic planning organization, said that proper development of Sterling Forest would help the county's tax base. In the last five years, he said, 30,000 new jobs had been created in the county. ''As we begin the last decade of the century,'' Mr. DiTullo said, ''Orange County must strive to be a world-class competitor.''
But other environmentalists said they feel that the competition to lure business sought by Mr. DiTullo would destroy the rural qualities that made the county attractive to newcomers in the first place. They also disagreed with his assertion that more development would lead to lower taxes.
John A. Humbach, who is a dean at Pace University and chairman of the Sterling Forest Coalition, an environmental group, cited a recent study conducted by the Cornell Cooperative Extension of Dutchess County and the American Farmland Trust. The study showed that for every dollar in taxes generated by farmland a town must spend 21 cents in services, while residential properties require $1.36 in services for every tax dollar they generate.
''Open space uses of land actually subsidize the local tax base,'' he said, ''and urban sprawl is literally killing the geese which lay the golden eggs.''
 
A National Problem
Christopher J. Dunleavy, executive director of the Orange County Chamber of Commerce, acknowledged that he did not want to see the region go the way of North Jersey or Nassau County, but said that careful development could satisfy both economic interests and those who would prefer to see the land remain open.
Town officials from Tuxedo and Warwick, which also contains a portion of the forest, said that they would be in favor of very selective development, but would oppose any massive projects that would cause congestion.
Mr. Kostmayer said the fight over Sterling Forest was symptomatic of a national problem. He said that between 70 million and 100 million acres of open space have been developed nationwide since the end of World War II and that''we are still losing open space at the rate of about 5,500 acres a day.''
During the hearing, officials from New York State said that they lacked money to buy the forest. Mr. Kostmayer later suggested a possible Federal role, and said he planned to ask the National Forest Service to conduct a study on the effect of development of the forest.

GRAPHIC: Representative Peter H. Kostmayer, who wants the National Forest Service to study the effect of the proposed development of 19,000 acres in Sterling Forest in Orange County, N.Y. (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC0811 TIMBER TRACTS (85%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (83%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STERLING FOREST CORP (85%); AMBASE CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PASSAIC RIVER COALITION; AMBASE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ORANGE COUNTY (NY); NEW JERSEY; STERLING FOREST (NY)

SUBJECT: WATER; FLOODS FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); WATER RIGHTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RIVERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); COUNTIES (77%); WATER QUALITY (77%); FLOOD ZONES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PESTICIDES (73%); SUBURBS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); FERTILIZERS (64%); JOB CREATION (60%); 

PERSON: ROUKEMA, MARGARET S (REPR); TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR); FILLIPONE, ELLA F (DR); KOSTMAYER, PETER H (REPR); SEVERO, RICHARD ROBERT G TORRICELLI (72%); 



190 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 31, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: HOME OWNERSHIP FOUND TO DECLINE

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Home ownership declined in the 1980's for the first time since World War II, Senator Lloyd Bentsen said today, citing high prices and high interest rates.
''In the decades following World War II you saw home ownership continue to climb, but in the 80's it headed downhill,'' said Mr. Bentsen, Democrat of Texas. The reasons, he said, included higher housing costs and higher interest rates. 
Mr. Bentsen introduced a study by George Tyler, a senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, finding that home ownership peaked at 65.6 percent of the population in 1980 and then began falling, to 63.9 percent last year.
The study found home ownership had fallen dramatically in the youngest age groups. In 1973, 23.4 percent of people under the age of 25 owned a home. In 1988 the rate was 15.5 percent.
Among other groups of the relatively young, the situation was similar: 43.6 percent of 25- to-29-year-olds were homeowners in 1973, falling to 36.2 percent in 1988. For the 30- to-34-year-old group, 60.2 percent owned homes in 1973, dropping to 52.6 percent in 1988. And in the 35-to-39 bracket, the rate fell from 68.5 percent in 1973 to 63.2 percent in 1988.
 
Using I.R.A.'s for a Home
The study was performed at the request of Mr. Bentsen, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, who is pushing for Congress to extend tax deductions for contributions to individual retirement accounts. Those deductions were sharply restricted in the tax overhaul voted by Congress three years ago.
Under Mr. Bentsen's proposal, I.R.A. contributions could be withdrawn without penalty for the purchase of a first home or for education expenses, in addition to retirement purposes.
Mr. Tyler's study found that housing affordability is determined by several factors, including tax policy, income growth and housing prices.
Rising house prices are reflected particularly in down payment requirements, the study said. In this decade alone, the average down payment for first-time home buyers has risen more than 50 percent, from $8,600 in 1981 to $13,000 in 1988.
The other major hurdle to home ownership is interest rates, the study said.
The interest cost alone for a 30-year mortgage for $100,000 at a fixed-rate of 6 percent, the prevailing rate in the 1960's, would have been $115,841, with a monthly house payment of $600. At 9 percent, the prevailing rate of the mid-1970's, the total interest cost would have been $188,810, with the monthly payments $802.
But at 10.5 percent, the prevailing mortgage rate today, that interest cost would be $229,306 - nearly double the interest cost off a 6 percent mortgage, and monthly house payments would be $915.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (IRA) WORLD WAR II (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TAX LAW (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); TAX REFORM (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); 

PERSON: BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEN); TYLER, GEORGE LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (94%); 



191 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Senators See Some Progress On Cut in Capital Gains Tax

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
White House negotiators and the Senate Republican leadership bargained with Senate Democrats today, seeking a firm date for a vote that could give President Bush a permanent cut in the capital gains tax.
''The major sticking point is giving us a fair shot on capital gains,'' the Senate minority leader leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, told reporters as negotiations on a complex budget and tax deal entered their second day.
The Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, said, ''There is no agreement, but we are making some progress.'' He and Mr. Dole said late in the day that they were encouraged enough to resume discussions Sunday.
 
It Seemed Close Friday
When negotiations ended Friday evening, senators in both parties said they were close to a deal. As the senators met in a rare Saturday session today, Democrats and Republicans were jockeying for tactical advantage. Republicans, who lost a vote on a capital gains cut in the Senate Finance this week, would like to bring that measure to the floor without having to overcome parliamentary and procedural obstacles. 
Mr. Mitchell said that he was not prepared to relax Senate rules to accommodate them. ''I am not going to participate in a process that exempts certain measures from the procedures from the Senate,'' he told reporters.
The deal, first proposed by the Senate Democratic leadership Thursday night, would strip extraneous spending and tax measures from a $13 billion deficit reduction package that is awaiting action in the Senate. Democrats want to pass the budget by Oct. 16 to avoid automatic cuts in most Government programs provided under the budget-balancing law.
In exchange, Republicans would agree to drop their efforts to attach a permanent capital gains tax cut proposal to the package, and Democrats would agree to allow such a tax cut proposal to be offered on other legislation.
 
Futile 'Arm-Twisting'
Under special parliamentary rules that apply to the deficit package, Republicans have to muster 60 votes rather than a simple majority to attach their capital gains cut plan. Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee, told reporters he was ''two to three votes'' shy of that number despite what he described as ''lots of arm-twisting'' by Mr. Bush.
 
The Magic Number Is 51
But Republicans would need only 51 votes to attach the capital gains cut measure to other legislation, a number they say they think could be reached easily with help from at least some of the dozen Democrats who favor reducing the capital gains tax. But Republicans risk the possibility that Democratic opponents of a capital gains tax cut would mount a filibuster, in which case 60 votes would again be needed to shut off debate.
Today's negotiations centered on Republican efforts to minimize that risk. The Republicans would like to offer their capital gains cut proposal as an amendment to a bill that temporarily extends the ceiling on the national debt, and they would like that measure to be put before the Senate next week.
Republican leaders are wagering that senators who might be willing to filibuster an ordinary piece of legislation, or even the deficit reduction package, would be unwilling to filibuster essential legislation like a debt ceiling bill. The current debt ceiling is expected to be reached by the end of the month.
 
Democrat For Long-Term Way
''We're willing to take our chances on a filibuster,'' Mr. Packwood said. ''We think we would have the votes of those who would filibuster on a deficit package, but would not filibuster on a debt bill.''
Concerned about precisely that situation, Democratic leaders have argued that Republicans should attach their capital gains tax cut to a long-term debt ceiling bill that will come before Congress at the end of the month.
Republicans preferred the short-term measure because they believe they have a better chance of winning the capital gains fight if they can buy some time in which to debate it. They say that waiting for the long-term bill has little appeal because they would have been able to make that effort anyway, without special negotiations.
''The Democrats think we're asking for an advantage and giving up nothing,'' Mr. Packwood said.
The fight over a capital gains tax cut has dominated the Congressional budget process since the beginning of the year, when Mr. Bush made clear that he intended to keep his election campaign pledge to try to permanently lower the rate. Capital gains, essentially the profits on the sale of stocks, bonds, real estate and other such investments, are currently taxed at the same rate as ordinary income: 15 percent, 28 percent or 33 percent.
 
Benefits for the Wealthy
Mr. Bush proposed lowering the rate to 15 percent over all, touching off protests from Democrats who argued that such a reduction primarily benefits only the wealthiest taxpayers and that it would violate the principles of the 1986 tax reform law. Under that law, preferential treatment for capital gains was eliminated so that all tax rates could be lowered.
Mr. Bush has maintained that reducing the tax on capital gains would stimulate investment and economic growth and generate additional revenue for the Treasury. Democrats agree that cutting the capital gains tax rate initially would generate new revenue as investors sell their assets to take advantage of the lower rate, but they argue that over time, the capital gains cut would be a revenue loser.
As Senators shuttled today between the offices of Mr. Dole and Mr. Mitchell to discuss the latest offers, the fate of the deficit reduction package that started all the bargaining remained uncertain. The House last week approved its version of the package, which includes a temporary reduction in the capital gains tax. Mr. Mitchell said the Senate would take up its version on Thursday with or without a deal on the capital gains tax cut and removing the extraneous tax and spending measures.
The House and Senate packages include dozens of new spending programs and tax breaks that Congressional leaders would like to see removed so that the legislation can be returned to its original deficit reduction purpose.
 
'A Fluid Discussion'
The House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, who briefly attended the negotiating sessions this morning, has long favored stripping the deficit package of these extraneous measures. Republicans say the Speaker would like to avoid another separate House vote on the capital gains issue and has discussed a strategy that would repackage the temporary cut the House has already approved in the short-term debt bill.
As he left the negotiations, Mr. Foley characterized the situation as ''a fluid discussion without any agreement on any serious, major point.''
If the two sides reach a final agreement on capital gains, they will still face the major hurdle of deciding which provisions in the big House and Senate deficit packages are actually extraneous. In addition to assorted tax breaks, both bills include such things as child-care legislation, a popular provision to repeal a law prohibiting discrimination against lower-wage workers in employer-paid health benefit plans and an increase in the limit on earnings by Social Security recipients.
''Extraneous is like obscenity,'' Mr. Packwood said. ''It's in the eye of the beholder.''

GRAPHIC: Senate Republicans and White House negotiators reviewing tax proposal yesterday before bargaining with Senate Democrats. From left were Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and Senators Pete V. Domenici, Bob Dole and Bob Packwood. In foreground was Richard G. Darman, budget director. (NYT/Michael Geissinger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); RASKY, SUSAN F; MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (90%); PETE DOMENICI (59%); 



192 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Bush Gets Bill on Timber Sales

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
The Senate sent to President Bush today legislation that would allow sales of timber from Federal forests in the Northwest while protecting the habitat of the spotted owl.
The lumber provisions were part of an $11.2 billion spending bill for land and cultural programs to which the Senate gave final Congressional approval by a vote of 91 to 6. Mr. Bush is expected to sign the measure for the fiscal year that began last Sunday. 
Disputes over logging on Federally owned tracts in the Northwest have occurred for years. Environmentalists argue that rare spotted owls and the virgin forests they inhabit must be preserved, while timber interests and others say cutting the trees creates jobs and helps the region's economy.
The Federal Fish and Wildlife Service is considering whether to declare the spotted owl an endangered species. Such a declaration would require Federal agencies to protect the habitats of the species, which are in forests that are centuries old.
The compromise legislation reduces to 9.6 billion board feet the amount of timber from the region's Federal forests to be sold this fiscal year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NORTHWESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BIRDS; OWLS; PUBLIC PROPERTY; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES FORESTS & WOODLANDS (93%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); WILDERNESS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); APPROVALS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (93%); 



193 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 17, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Noriega's Party Proposes Laws to Punish Dissent

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Oct. 7

 BODY:
The political party controlled by Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega has proposed a sweeping set of 16 laws aimed at identifying and punishing Panamanians who do not actively support his military rule.
The new laws, proposed by leaders of the Revolutionary Democracy Party after a meeting on Friday, appeared to be directed primarily at eliminating dissent among the large number of Government employees.
During a coup attempt last Tuesday, workers in several Government offices were seen celebrating General Noriega's overthrow before learning that he had defeated the rebellion and was again in control. 
Party officials said other new laws in the package, whose precise provisions have not yet been made public, would also impose restrictions on national news organizations and tighten Government control over transportation, private enterprise and the registration of foreign agents working in Panama. Party members said the laws would be promulgated by executive decree.
The laws were proposed a day after General Noriega, in an angry, defiant speech to Government employees in the city of Santiago, called for a sweeping crackdown on his opponents and urged Government employees to expose traitors in their ranks.
In a message that has resonated ominously in the tense atmosphere after Tuesday's aborted coup, the military leader declared what he called in Spanish a policy of ''the three P's'' -''palos,'' or truncheons, for the undecided; ''plomo,'' or bullets, for his enemies, and ''plata'' or money, for his friends.
Speaking to reporters at the party meeting late Friday, leaders of the Revolutionary Democratic Party said they interpreted the General's words as a clear mandate to purge the Government ranks of any suspected dissidents.
The party leader and former presidential candidate, Carlos A. Duque, declared that he had ordered the immediate dismissal of any Government functionaries suspected of disloyalty to the party, and warned state workers that the Government would permit them to have no connections to other political groups or movements.
''In the ranks of the Revolutionary Democratic Party and the Dignity Batallions, there are many unemployed people who could take the place of these seditious elements, who definitely have no place in our republic,'' Mr. Duque said. The Dignity Batallions are large, loosely organized units of armed civilians that have incited street violence against opposition leaders and demonstrators, and that General Noriega has described as a weapon against a possible invasion by United States troops.
Leaders of the Panamanian political opposition made no direct comment on the new laws.
Guillermo Endara and Ricardo Arias Calderon, who won election as president and vice president, respectively, in national elections this year that were later anulled by General Noriega, remained in hiding today after a group of armed men in civilian and military dress ransacked their headquarters late Thursday.
But other political opponents of General Noriega described the new measures less as a means of augmenting the military Government's punitive powers, which are already subject to few if any restrictions, than as a psychological tool for instilling fear and promoting orthodoxy among Government workers.
After early reports that the coup attempt against General Noriega had succeeded, witnesses said, several large Government offices here took on a holiday atmosphere in celebration of the military leader's demise.
''Everybody was thrilled,'' said one man, who asked not to be identified. ''Everybody had stopped working, and started dancing with a bottle in their hand.''
But the celebration soon turned to chastened silence as rebel radio communiques were replaced by official declarations that General Noriega was still in control. And the General's strident address on Thursday is now believed to have sown deep anxiety among thousands of Government workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS LEGISLATION (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); COUPS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); RIOTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); UHLIG, MARK A



194 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Casualties Of a Truce In Angola

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAMBA CAJU, Angola

 BODY:
Just before dawn a couple of weeks ago, peasants in this languid town in Angola's central highlands were awakened by singing and chanting. Then, without warning, the shooting began.
Townspeople say 15 unarmed peasants were killed and at least 40 wounded in the fighting, which they say came during a sweep by United States-backed guerrillas fighting Government troops who control the region.
Supplied mostly by the United States and South Africa, the guerrillas of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, or Unita, are fighting to overthrow Angola's Marxist Government. The Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola has governed since the nation gained independence in 1976. The Government forces are armed by Cuba and the Soviet Union. 
The fighting here on Sept. 17 came nearly three months after a cease-fire between rebel and Government forces. Since then, each side has accused the other of violating the truce and each has returned to the battlefields with a vengeance. The rebel leader, Jonas Savimbi, and the Angolan President, Jose Eduardo dos Santos, have issued conflicting interpretations of the cease-fire agreement reached in Gbadolite, Zaire, on June 22.
 
Sweeps Through Remote Towns
In the war, taking place in a country without reliable transport or communications, soldiers from both sides have been accused of periodically sweeping through remote towns they consider hostile, sometimes killing and kidnapping as they rampage.
The massacre here in this town of several thousand about 180 miles east of Luanda was one of the most gruesome outbreaks of violence in the region, which has seen heavy fighting, since the civil war began 14 years ago. Twice before, in July 1985 and January 1986, rebel troops swept through the town, sacking houses and shops. The raid last month, however, was of an entirely different magnitude, townspeople say. The rebels not only assaulted unarmed civilians, but sabotaged the community's economic infrastructure.
Virtually every house and shop along the main thoroughfare now stands empty, some abandoned after rebel bombs crashed through the orange tile roofs.
A two-room medical clinic, serving 60,000 people, was completely destroyed.
 
Villages Cut Off From Food
The regional power plant was split open by a bazooka. Down the road, two old Portuguese administrative buildings and a warehouse for coffee and food were burned.
On the outskirts, the landscape is pockmarked by dozens of burned huts. Outside one of them, a woman cowered in a ragged sack with her 2-year-old son, a child with a distended belly and dull eyes. They had not eaten for several days.
A report made public in April by Africa Watch, a human-rights organization, said thousands of Angolan civilians had been killed by land mines, by indiscriminate attacks and by starvation. The report also said attacks by both sides had violated international codes of war through the 14 years of fighting.
The Africa Watch report, however, was especially critical of Unita. When short of rations, the report said, Government soldiers steal from the fields of peasants, as does Unita. But the report accused Unita of deliberately encircling and ''strangling'' villages by insuring that there is no access to food, which ''means virtual starvation for the civilians in those area.''
 
Singing, Chanting and Machetes
The scope of the Africa Watch investigation was limited, however, because representatives of Africa Watch were not allowed to interview victims of the war inside Angola. Unita officals have denied the accusations, saying most civilians killed in guerrilla areas are either caught in a cross fire or are legitimate targets killed while taking part in guerrilla military operations.
Angolan Government officials offered a tour for Western reporters to Samba Caju, site of a four-hour battle, saying it was the first time such a group had been seen the results of sustained fighting since the cease-fire began. Armed Government troops were in the area and present during the interviews, but reporters were allowed to roam the town freely and talk with any of its residents.
The townspeople spoke angrily of the damage done by Unita forces, who a Government guide said had numbered from 1,000 to 1,200.
The townspeople said the events began before dawn on Sept. 17, when groups of rebels, some singing and chanting and banging machetes against the sides of their trucks, arrived in the town.
 
'The People Started Running'
One of the townspeople is Esperanca Antonio Camoes, a 23-year-old woman who was wearing black clothes in mourning for her husband and a child.
''On the morning of the attack, we were all sleeping,'' she said. ''And we started hearing mortars and shots and shooting. And the people starting running. I had my baby on my back, and was holding my other baby in my arms.
''And I was running and running, and came to a river, and when I was running in the river, I tripped and fell, and when I fell, the baby in my arms hit his head on a rock, and he died.''
Mrs. Camoes said her husband, Antonio, was shot in the back. ''He fell on the ground,'' she said, ''and they started hitting him with machetes.''
Another townsperson, Maria Domingo Couveia, 25 years old, recalled first hearing ''laughing and chanting and singing'' and then the gunfire.
''I was very afraid, and started running, and I didn't realize that my mother wasn't able to escape.'' she said.
Her mother and brother, who was blind, were asleep when the raid began.
''My mother ran out of the house, and my brother was holding onto her, and they shot and killed them both,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Maria Domingo Couveia and other townspeople in Samba Caju, Angola (NYT); map of Angola indicating Samba Caju (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

CITY: LUANDA, ANGOLA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANGOLA, NATIONAL UNION FOR THE TOTAL INDEPENDENCE OF (UNITA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANGOLA; SAMBA CAJU (ANGOLA)

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE WAR & CONFLICT (93%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CHILD SOLDIERS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); LANDMINES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B JOSE EDUARDO DOS SANTOS (55%); JONAS MALHEIRO SAVIMBI (55%); 



195 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-23, 32

 
Hungarian Communists will change into a socialist party, the party voted. The party said it would strive to bridge the gulf between Communism and democratic socialism. Page 1

 
In festive East Berlin, the protesters also love a parade 18

 
A severe economic slump in China has begun. Experts say it may create new dissatisfaction as the Communists try to rally support. 1

 
Was the U.S. prepared for Panama? A reconstruction of White House response to the attempted coup reveals breakdowns in communications and suggests that officials may have been unprepared to handle the crisis. 1

 
News analysis: Did Bush lose his chance to hesitancy? 16

 
Noriega's party proposes laws to punish dissent 17

 
Argentina issues pardon 12

 
The Ukraine's chief offered a deal with his republic's nationalist movement: He would curb harassment of nationalists if they do not advocate secession from the Soviet Union. 18

 
Soviets urge stronger role for World Court 4

 
The Pope began a trip to East Asia, making the first papal flight over the Soviet Union. He sent greetings from the air to President Gorbachev. 5 
 
 
New debate on Japan's war role 8

 
The fate of the body of Marcos is at the center of a new drama 6

 
Soldiers during Angola's cease-fire have been accused of sweeping through towns they consider hostile and sometimes killing people. 3

 
Photographer's death a cause celebre for Kenya 10

 
Heroin is Italy's drug of choice, despite a flood of cocaine around the Mediterranean. Deaths from heroin overdoses are almost three times greater than they were in 1986.? 2

 
Greeks to vote again as rules seem to change 23

 
Lebanese peace talks stall over Syrians 3

 
Israeli Likud Party sees threat to coalition rule 9

 
NATIONAL/24-33

 
Takeover fever has gripped airlines, bringing changes in ownership and giving employees new power. The trend has also created a great deal of debt in the industry. 1

 
A firm date for a Senate tax vote that could give the President a permanent cut in the capital gains tax was the subject of talks between the White House and Senate Democrats. 28

 
Congress backs curb on art money, faces Medicare clash 27, 28

 
AIDS is spreading among teen-agers through heterosexual intercourse, new data shows. That has prompted experts to call for an expanded national effort to stem the epidemic. 1

 
The Democrats' drug strategy, as shown in Congress's drug bill, is to outdo President Bush on education, treatment and prevention. 32

 
Figure in big drug haul tells prosecutor of ring's scope 32

 
A rule that requires anti-drug oaths from students seeking Federal aid has met resistance on campuses. University officials say they have no plans to enforce compliance. 33
 
Thousands marched on Washington to protest the shortage of decent and affordable housing. They included homeless people, government officials and Hollywood celebrities. 24

 
TV evangelism remains influential in the lives of many Americans, despite scandals. ''When one minister falls,'' an expert said, ''all they have to do is change the channel.'' 24

 
A classroom shortage in California is developing because births and immigration have swelled the population and the state cannot meet the demand for new schools. 24

 
Millions of dollars in errors found in Indian fund 25

 
Judge refuses to expunge overturned murder conviction 26

 
REGIONAL/34-40

 
New York City's troubled hospitals may not be driven into bankruptcy by last week's settlement with union workers, but the pact is certain to make financial matters worse. 34

 
Rudolph Giuliani and Thomas Dewey invite comparisons because Mr. Dewey was a Republican prosecutor who began his political career in New York City. But some scholars say there are many differences. 34

 
A 10-year-old Queens girl was shot in the head as she returned from a pizza parlor. She was shot by a teen-ager arguing with other youths over a game of dice, the police said. 34

 
Police officer shot and critically wounded in the Bronx 34

 
Killings by New York police have dropped, bucking trend 35

 
A development of Sterling Forest could imperil drinking water in North Jersey and make residents more vulnerable to floods, two lawmakers and an expert said. 36

 
Compromise plan to move newsstands off curbs 36

 
Families learn to save their history 36

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (92%); UKRAINE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); KENYA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (54%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); DRUG POLICY (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); COUPS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); TAKEOVERS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); HEROIN (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); AIRLINES (67%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); COCAINE (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); ADOLESCENTS (64%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (61%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (61%); MEDICARE (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



196 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
Rejoice! It's Independents' Day

BYLINE: By Vincent Canby

 BODY:
Alternative commercial cinema lives. Among other things, the box-office success of Steven Soderbergh's independently produced ''Sex, Lies and Videotape'' is proof that there is vibrant life outside of the Hollywood establishment.
Though ''Sex, Lies and Videotape'' is scarcely avant-garde, it is not a result of consensus movie making. It's a first film by an amazingly talented, self-assured young (26-year-old) director who came out of (in Hollywood terms) nowhere in May to win the grand prize at the Cannes Film Festival.
Variety reports that since the film's July opening in this country, ''Sex, Lies and Videotape'' has earned an estimated box-office gross of nearly $16 million. The same Variety chart reports that ''Batman'' has earned approximately $245 million. When one considers the $1.6 million production cost of ''Sex, Lies and Videotape'' against the $50 million reported for ''Batman,'' then the Soderbergh film was a better investment. 
That sort of figure juggling isn't quite fair. It doesn't take into account all of the subsidiary income that ''Batman'' has earned and the residual income that will continue to come in. However, it does emphasize the fact that idiosyncratic, independent directors, working on Poverty Row budgets, can make films that are first-rate and in touch with audiences.
These independents don't give audiences what they want. They give them what they don't yet know they want.
Possibly the most invigorating news to come out of the 27th New York Film Festival, which closes tomorrow night with Bill Forsyth's ''Breaking In,'' concerns the interest of commercial distributors in acquiring the theatrical rights to Michael Moore's ''Roger and Me,'' a feature-length documentary. A feature-length documentary? In the syntax of Mr. Moore, who sometimes sounds like a folksy cracker-barrel Marxist, with a little bit of Barnum thrown in, you heard right, son.
One might suspect that the distributors who are reported to be so keen on the film, or, at least, so keen on looking at it, are out of their minds. With a handful of exceptions, documentaries are what open in theaters on Friday and turn up on public television 10 days later.
''Roger and Me'' is not only a documentary, it's also a documentary about economic depression and emotional dislocation, which are usually gritty subjects even for public television.
Yet the audiences that saw ''Roger and Me'' first at the Telluride Film Festival, at the Toronto Film Festival and, finally, at Lincoln Center, have come out of the screenings buoyed up. The good feeling is not at the expense of the unemployed of Flint, Mich., who are the subject of the film.
It's the result of attending to the on-screen personality of Mr. Moore, a former journalist (briefly the editor of Mother Jones magazine) who shares with Mark Twain the singular gift of being able to make common sense sound pricelessly funny. Also like Twain, Mr. Moore is biased, pessimistic, not strictly fair and, in this age of submission to consensus, nearly always a tonic.
Mr. Moore comes out of the tradition of American radicalism associated with the history of the Middle West, which gave us the farmers' Granger Movement (in Minnesota) and Wisconsin's Senator Bob La Follette, the Progressive Party's Presidential candidate in the 1924 election.
At a time when we've been told that space is the last frontier, Mr. Moore is a frontiersman whose territory is Flint, the birthplace of General Motors and where he was born and bred of men who had always worked for G.M.
''Roger and Me,'' Mr. Moore's first film, is very much the sort of first-person narrative that, had it been written in the 19th century, would have been told in phonetically spelled dialect that today's readers find nearly incomprehensible. It purports to be a record of the multiple failed attempts of a plain ordinary little guy (Mr. Moore) to reach Roger Smith, the chairman of General Motors. Mr. Moore wants to take Mr. Smith on a personally escorted tour of Flint, to show him the terrible consequences that have resulted from the closing of various G.M. operations there. According to the film, the city of 150,000 has lost 40,000 jobs, many, we are told, to G.M. facilities in Mexico, where the labor is cheaper. The only Flint citizens working overtime today are postal workers executing change-of-address requests.
Wearing jeans, a down jacket and a baseball cap, with a toothpick sometimes stuck in the corner of his mouth, the hefty Mr. Moore shambles through ''Roger and Me'' as if he were a town booster manque. He interviews former G.M. workers who are at their wits' end and strikes up a palship with the man from the sheriff's office in charge of evicting people from their houses and mobilehomes. In the film's most riotous sequences, he inventories Flint's many doomed efforts to turn the city into a tourist mecca, complete with a theme park called AutoWorld, which quickly went broke. Flint will never be Orlando.
Mr. Moore is merciless, but cruelty at the expense of the rich and smug still is irresistible in our society.
He journeys onto a golf course to ask one society matron about the good life in Flint. She talks about her club, her friends and shopping. Somebody else mentions the joys of hockey and ballet. He attends a ''fun'' Great Gatsby party, which, of course, looks pretty grim, and another party, a benefit held in Flint's brand-new jail where, for their donations, guests can be handcuffed and spend the night in the lock-up. Other Flint residents, in the meantime, are selling their blood. Pat Boone, Anita Bryant and President Reagan come to the city to lift morale. Miss Bryant quotes Britain's Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher as saying, ''Cheer up, America!'' Bob Eubanks, then emcee of ''The Newlywed Game,'' appears at the 1988 state fair and, while relaxing, tells a joke that, for monumental boorishness, may not be equaled on film for another century.
From time to time, Mr. Moore makes halfhearted attempts to contact Mr. Smith, who, in the way of such things, becomes a figure of ever greater hilarity the longer he remains off-screen. The director is seen being tossed out of Mr. Smith's haunts (the Detroit Athletic Club and the Grosse Point Yacht Club) and being denied entry to the chairman's 14th-floor offices at G.M. headquarters in Detroit.
He is prevented from speaking at the annual G.M. stockholders' meeting, and, when he finally does get close to the chairman at a G.M. Christmas party, the confrontation is a bit of a fizzle. It's the only anticlimax in the movie, which, otherwise, is an effectively populist call to arms.
Behind all the humor, there is a committed social critic at work. Mr. Moore clearly believes that corporations have responsibilities to the communities in which they have prospered.
A G.M. spokesman, who seems to be a decent fellow at heart, attempts to persuade Mr. Moore that the future of Flint might well be with a company that manufactures sticky rollers, designed to rid clothes of lint. We roar with laughter as Mr. Moore allows himself only the slightest look of surprise.
Like all serious humorists, Mr. Moore knows enough not to laugh at situations of his own making. (A closing credit notes that this particular G.M. spokesman also lost his job.) With any luck, ''Roger and Me'' will soon be available, if not at a theater right next door, then at a theater worth traveling a certain distance to reach.
Alternative commercial cinema, including the wise and joyful ''High Fidelity: The Adventures of the Guarneri String Quartet,'' suddenly seems to be all around us. It has been especially evident at the current New York festival, which is turning out to be one of the best in recent years. In the past, the festival has often seen fit to program a couple of mainstream American films to soothe the philistines. This year, Mr. Forsyth's ''Breaking In,'' which stars Burt Reynolds, must fill that slot.
Instead we've had several original, sometimes blithely serious films that will soon offer commercial moviegoers the chance to see something they cannot predict, shot-for-shot, as they buy their tickets.
Chief among these: Jim Jarmusch's blissful ''Mystery Train,'' set in a Memphis, Tenn., where the portrait, if not the legend, of Elvis Presley seems to hang over every bed, and Jane Campion's ''Sweetie,'' a soberly funny Australian film about two mismatched sisters. More about them when they arrive in the theaters.

GRAPHIC: Photos of a ''Great Gatsby'' party in Flint, Mich., in Michael Moore's feature-length documentary ''Roger and Me'' (pg. 13); James Spader and Laura San Giacomo in ''Sex, Lies and Videotape'' (pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ROGER AND ME (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); CANADA (50%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); ONTARIO, CANADA (50%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; REVIEWS FILM (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (64%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT MICHAEL MOORE (93%); ROGER BONHAM SMITH (88%); 



197 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1735 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Puerto Rico's 'Watergate' Is Filmed

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH WEIS; Elisabeth Weis is a professor of film at Brooklyn College.

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R.

 BODY:
Scene one: Day, interior. The prosecutor taps his pen nervously on his files during a Senate hearing. His language may be American legalese, but his pen taps a 6/8 Latin beat.
This juxtaposition of two cultures is a distinctive component of a film shot this past summer in Puerto Rico about a political trauma often called Puerto Rico's Watergate. Tentatively entitled ''Show of Force,'' the film is a fictionalization of Anne Nelson's book, ''Murder Under Two Flags: The U.S., Puerto Rico and the Cerro Maravilla Cover-Up.'' The film stars Amy Irving as a television journalist, Robert Duvall as her boss, Lou Diamond Phillips as an undercover agent and Andy Garcia as a special investigator for the Puerto Rican Senate.
'' 'Show of Force' is the first Hollywood feature to be shot entirely in Puerto Rico and the first to focus on a Puerto Rican story,'' said Luis Ramos, the executive director of the Puerto Rico Film Institute, a Government-sponsored organization that fosters movie production on the island. The film, expected to be released early next year by Paramount Pictures, seems likely to draw attention to the island's fiery political passions, which are growing more heated as it prepares to hold a plebiscite within a year or two to gauge public opinion on Puerto Rico's future relationship to the United States. 
Cerro Maravilla is the name by which Puerto Ricans refer to the scandal triggered by the police shooting in 1978 of two young advocates of independence and the subsequent official cover-up, which is still undergoing investigation.
According to Samuel Dash, who served as the chief counsel of the Senate Watergate committee, ''Cerro Maravilla is actually one of the most outrageous violations of democratic government in Puerto Rico's history and certainly ranks with the scandal of Watergate in the United States.''
Throughout five years and two official inquiries after the shooting, the police contended that they shot in self-defense two terrorists who had intended to sabotage the television towers on a mountain named Cerro Maravilla near the city of Ponce.
Though the Government pronounced the issue closed, parallel efforts to uncover the truth were continued by the Senate president, Miguel Hernandez Agosto, and by several members of the press, notably the television journalist Carmen Jovet and two reporters for The San Juan Star, Tomas Stella and Manuel Suarez, who is also a contributor to The New York Times. In 1983 a third set of hearings was held - this time under the aegis of the Puerto Rican Senate and on live television.
The public watched mesmerized as witnesses provided graphic testimony that the shooting victims had thrown down their weapons and surrendered before they were killed. The revelations led eventually to the imprisonment of 10 police officers, the fall of the last - pro-statehood - Puerto Rican administration and the assassination of the undercover agent who led the two youths into the police ambush.
Ms. Jovet explained the importance of televising the hearings live. ''When you write, you interpret,'' she said. ''But television presented the hearings unedited - all day long. So the jury was the Puerto Rican people.''
The Senate is still investigating how high the cover-up went. Mr. Dash has been serving as special consultant to its investigation of whether the cover-up was sanctioned by officials of the Puerto Rican and United States Departments of Justice, in particular, the F.B.I. Most recently, ''officials have arrested and charged most of the top lawyers of the Puerto Rican Justice Department during that period, and they are awaiting trial,'' said Mr. Dash.
Scene Two: Night, exterior. An electric storm has temporarily blacked out the area, but the public square facing San Juan's Spanish Colonial City Hall looks brighter than ever, thanks to movie generators that power the festive lights strung around the kiosks, gazebo and fountain.
Between setups, the Brazilian director Bruno Barreto is asked what attracted him to a project so different from his best-known, sensuous fantasies, ''Gabriella'' and ''Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands.''
''The uniqueness of Anne Nelson's book is that she provides a historical context to suggest why Cerro Maravilla happened,'' he said. ''She uses the specific event as a metaphor for the way the U.S. has treated Latin America in general. You could say those two kids were killed because of a hundred years of history. I want to translate that concept into dramatic terms.''
Mr. Barreto goes on to emphasize that he wants to reach a broad audience by providing ''all the elements to attract and entertain. I want to make the audience think - not in a didactic but in an emotional way.''
Predictably, this approach has provoked mixed reactions in Puerto Rico. Although the film's director, the executive producer and several of the stars have Latin American ties, and although two-thirds of the crew and more than 40 speaking parts have been chosen from local professional talent, there is some resentment on the part of the island's press that the principal character, played by Ms. Irving, is not Puerto Rican. As an American journalist and widow of a Puerto Rican lawyer, Ms. Irving's character is a fictional composite of several journalists - primarily Puerto Rican - who refused to accept the official version of the shooting.
To feature an American or British character with whom the viewers can identify as they learn about a foreign country is, of course, the standard Hollywood choice for engaging audience sympathies in films like ''Missing,'' ''Under Fire,'' ''Cry Freedom,'' ''Salvador,'' ''The Killing Fields'' and ''Midnight Express.'' Traditionally, the character is a journalist. ''In effect, Americans perceive of Puerto Rico as a foreign country,'' said the film's producer, Fred Weintraub. ''I got lots of calls about obtaining passports to get here. And the callers thought it had a different currency from ours.''
The protagonists of the original Cerro Maravilla drama are still very public figures in Puerto Rico. There is talk about erecting a statue of the taxi driver - and his battered cab - whose testimony helped break the case. The journalist whose experiences in exposing the cover-up most closely resemble those of Ms. Irving's character is Carmen Jovet. Ms. Jovet, who was threatened with physical assault and fired from her job as a reporter in the course of the investigations, is now one of Puerto Rico's most popular television personalities.
Alejandro Gonzalez Malave, the police undercover agent killed in the aftermath of the incident, who provided the basis for Lou Diamond Phillips's character, has practically entered into island folklore. Local opinions are heated as to how their roles should be played, which has given rise to some misconceptions.
The local press brought many preconceptions to the film, said Amy Irving. ''Because Lou Diamond Phillips played such a sweet person in 'La Bamba,' they think we must be making this film into a love story. Actually his character is quite frightening.'' Ms. Irving is the first to volunteer that until she started preparing for her role, she, like most Americans, knew ''next to nothing about Puerto Rico or its status as a commonwealth.'' Ms. Irving suggested that ''though the film is primarily the story of one woman, it should also broaden viewers' notions of Puerto Ricans.'' The film features a wide cross section of Puerto Ricans; major characters include a taxi driver, a public prosecutor and the owner of a television station.
Ms. Jovet is worried about telling an unresolved story that is still ''an open wound in the heart of Puerto Ricans.'' As for their portrayal, ''I hope we don't have another 'West Side Story' ghost following us for 20 years,'' she said. ''It hurt our image; people expect Puerto Ricans to carry knives between our teeth.''
However, Jaime Montilla, a prominent actor here, does expect the film to show that ''there are different types of Puerto Ricans just as there are different types of Americans. When I auditioned for Puerto Rican parts in New York after getting my master's degree there,'' he said, ''the casting agent would ask me to be more Puerto Rican. That image is based on a single stereotype from the Bronx.''
Asked how close the film is to the real story of Cerro Maravilla, Mr. Montilla said that the scenes in which he plays a senator are true to the spirit of the actual hearings, which he watched as avidly as everyone else here. ''We have to remember that the movies have always used historical events as a background. Look at all the films that have taken place during the French or American revolutions.''
''The growing involvement of Latins on the other side of the camera,'' said Richard Pena, the program director of the Film Society of Lincoln Center, ''has brought an increased sensitivity towards Latin American subjects.'' Mr. Pena also cites economic incentives for the production of Latin and Chicano films ranging from Hector Babenco's ''Kiss of the Spider Woman'' to ''Stand and Deliver'' and ''The Milagro Beanfield War.''
''As Latins become a greater presence in our marketplace, film makers are hoping that they will provide a partially built-in audience. On the other hand,'' he said, ''as Latin America looms more largely in the American consciousness, owing both to recent waves of immigrants and to U.S. political involvement, that, too, makes Latin America very topical.''
As for Puerto Rico in particular, the United States Senate is currently debating the terms of the plebiscite on Puerto Rico's status. The Puerto Rican Senate expects to hold new public hearings on the Cerro Maravilla case, which is inextricably linked to the statehood issue, next summer.
''The Cerro Maravilla incident will continue to be debated for many years to come - in the courtroom, in print, and on film,'' said the book's author, Anne Nelson. ''I think that the contribution 'Show of Force' can make at the moment is to bring the issues before a broader public than ever before. There's an old saying that 'Americans will do anything about Latin America except read about it,' and that's held doubly true for Puerto Rico. If this film encourages people to educate themselves on Puerto Rico and to think harder about U.S. relations with Latin America in general, it will be a very positive development.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of Amy Irving in Bruno Barreto's film as an American journalist and widow of a Puerto Rican lawyer (Charles Gerretsen) (pg. 13); Bruno Barreto, the director of ''Show of Force'' (Charles Gerretsen) (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SHOW OF FORCE (MOVIE)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); WRITERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (88%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); HISTORY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SELF DEFENSE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (72%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); TERRORISM (60%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: WEIS, ELISABETH AMY IRVING (57%); ROBERT SELDEN DUVALL (56%); LOU DIAMOND PHILLIPS (56%); 



198 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1, Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2663 words

HEADLINE: Is Political Humor Politic?

BYLINE: By MARK RUSSELL; the writer is host of the Mark Russell comedy specials on PBS.

 BODY:
Do we need political humor? I usually answer that question with the smart-alecky response, ''I certainly do - I have bills to pay.'' The humorist Tom Lehrer gave up his practice years ago with the proclamation that political satire died the moment Henry Kissinger received the Nobel Peace Prize, and my endeavors as a satirist are often threatened by the verbatim statements of public figures. For example, during the Irangate investigations a reporter asked President Reagan if William Casey, the director of the C.I.A., had carried on covert operations without the President knowing about it. President Reagan's exact response was, ''Not to my knowledge.'' During the pay wars in Congress last January, I quoted an unnamed Senator as saying, ''If we in the Congress must maintain a higher standard of morality without a higher salary, where is the incentive? If we must spend all day long being ethical, how can we do our jobs?'' The quote was pure invention, but inasmuch as it was completely believable no one questioned it. The quote was also deemed acceptable by my audience because Congress itself, unlike the Presidency, is one of those safe objects of ridicule in this country, along with New York City, the Postal Service, potholes and Geraldo Rivera. 
How can Larry Gelbart's play ''Mastergate,'' a satire of Washington scandals and ensuing Congressional investigations that opens Thursday at the Criterion Center, compete with reality as it parodies Congress, the Presidency and the media? Or is the play really a parody at all? Or is it reality? Or Memorex? Didn't the cartoonist Garry Trudeau take us on a journey through Ronald Reagan's brain several years ago? When we recently saw the ex-President's half-shaved head with Mrs. Reagan attempting to cover it with her hand - was that a photograph, a cartoon or deja vu?
As the mass audience revels in the Gary Hart, Dan Quayle, John Tower, Barney Frank, et al., pratfalls de jour, the measurement of political humor is in direct proportion to the number of political gaffes. This is not war-and-peace satire, but rather Punch-and-Judy slapstick.
It is in gentler times when political jokes are most accepted by the general public. But when the going gets tough, the comic does a segue. Only the brave will stay the course and enter the tempest of, say, the mayoral race in New York City. As the candidate Rudolph Giuliani once said, ''Hey, let's call Jackie Mason.'' Satire That Stays Ahead of the Curve Once, a satirist wrote an attack on a well-known political figure. A fictitious name was used, but people had no trouble figuring out the identity of the satirist's victim, whose erratic physical features and mannerisms were ridiculed with deft humor. Whereupon, a large segment of the population became outraged, and several newspapers editorialized on what right the satirist had to be so impertinent. The humorist was Charlie Chaplin, the country was the United States, and the object of ridicule was Adolf Hitler.
The year was 1940, and isolationists in America were quite bothered by Chaplin's movie ''The Great Dictator.'' Their argument was that Chaplin was stirring up pro-British emotions and foisting his left-wing opinions on an American public in no mood for war. Fifty years later we can only imagine that time when a writer attacking Hitler could be labeled a warmonger. Today we would say that Chaplin was ahead of the curve, which is where a satirist belongs. Most humorists have operated behind the curve - a much safer, risk-free zone, i.e., ridiculing Hitler, Tojo and Mussolini after Dec. 7, 1941.
Incidentally, Chaplin would later state that had he known of the ghastly results of Nazism he never would have made such a movie. Indeed, lampooning Hitler during the war reached sophomoric triviality. I recall a character in Herman Wouk's ''War and Remembrance'' who expressed disgust at such silliness as the zany bandleader Spike Jones's popular recording ''In Der Fuhrer's Face.''
 
Ayatollah Khomeini Is the One Exception
 In the 44 years since World War II ended, the targets of American humorists for the most part have been their fellow Americans. Quick - who was the villain of the Korean War? In the Vietnam conflict our official adversary was Ho Chi Minh, whose image in this country was, shall we say, ill-defined. Where were the Stalin routines? Pol Pot? Didn't their vicious acts qualify them to be suitably unpopular, therefore safe subjects for humor?
Instead, our targets have been domestic ones - Joe McCarthy, Jack Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Billy Carter, Ronald Reagan, Nancy Reagan, George Bush and one more time - Mr. Nixon. And in recent years supporting players such as Michael Dukakis, James Watt, Oliver North, John Tower and Dan Quayle have amused. These have all been fun people, and the humor aimed at them on American television over the years has been mostly lighthearted, lightweight and an end-of-the-day giggle before snapping off the bed lamp at 11:40 P.M. and going to sleep after the Johnny Carson monologue.
The only public figure approaching Adolf Hitler as a hate object was the Ayatollah Khomeini. But as I recall, many of us welcomed the Shah's overthrow and didn't become terribly worked up over Khomeini until he took 52 American hostages, at which point jokes about him were rendered behind the curve. (Mr. Chaplin, we needed you.) In fact, the television networks were country miles behind the curve. After the hostage-taking, NBC issued a directive forbidding all humorous references to anything pertaining to the Iranian situation. After a few weeks of this, a frustrated Mr. Carson would ask the audience to bear with him as he sidestepped this major news event that was on everyone's mind.
The network's pusillanimous edict was soon violated by George Schlatter, the producer of NBC's own show ''Real People.'' Mr. Schlatter sanctioned my standing in front of the Iranian Embassy in Washington doing Ayatollah jokes. Actually, they were reworked Stalin jokes which originated (surreptitiously) in the Soviet Union:
''They have come out with a new Joseph Stalin (Khomeini) postage stamp, but it doesn't stick. People keep spitting on the wrong side.''
 
 Little boy, who is your mother?
 My mother is Iran.
 And who is your father?
 My father is the great and glorious Khomeini.
 And what do you want to be when you grow up?
 An orphan.
 Safe, risk-free, behind the curve and no problem for NBC. But, out of fear of the public and underestimating our intelligence, the network had muzzled its creative people.
 
Major Manley Battle and Capital Lunacy
 I had best throw the curve away in an attempt to fix the position of Mr. Gelbart's ''Mastergate,'' which received glowing reviews when it was presented last spring at Harvard's American Repertory Theater. Set solely in a Congressional committee hearing room, the play touches on just about every Washington-based lunacy of the last 20 years without using any real names. However, as with Chaplin's maniac fuhrer Hinkle with the funny little mustache, we have no trouble identifying Mr. Gelbart's hospitalized and dying C.I.A. director, Wylie Slaughter, who had a detached and befuddled President under his control. Then, there is the gung-ho, spit-and-polish Marine hero, Maj. Manley Battle, whose attorney, with the aid of a pointer, indicates to the committee the many campaign ribbons on Major Battle's chest as a demure Mrs. Battle sits behind the witness busily knitting an American flag.
Had Mr. Gelbart been able to bring his play to Broadway, say, a week after Colonel North's riveting six days of testimony, would the Iran-Contra affair have played out any differently? Would CNN have run lengthy portions of ''Mastergate'' every 30 minutes? Would Ted Koppel have devoted several nights to the play in order to present to his audience another dimension of Irangate, albeit a cartoon dimension?
 
What's Real And What Isn't
 Actually, the reality of Irangate and Mr. Gelbart's satire ''Mastergate'' are two cartoons separated by a very fine line. I don't think an on-target spoof such as ''Mastergate'' would have changed anything, because the very idea of any threat to President Reagan's honorable and untarnished retirement was something most American's didn't want to think about.
One would think that, compared with Mr. Reagan, Mr. Nixon had less of a chance of survival from the onslaught of political humor. Not so. Mr. Nixon's political demise was self-inflicted with just the tiniest assistance from the humorists. We must remember that ''Saturday Night Live'' and ''Doonesbury,'' which could have turned up the temperature in Nixon's Oval Office considerably, didn't reach the heights of their popularity until after the Vietnam and Watergate sagas were over. Although Art Buchwald's columns have always had to be reckoned with in government circles, his Vietnam era play, ''Sheep on the Runway'' (1970), had short runs in New York and Washington. Nor did Barbara Garson's Off Broadway ''MacBird'' (1967) capture the country's attention; the play never attained more than cult status.
In 1968 television's No. 1 rated show, ''Laugh-In,'' had its way with the hawks of the day - the hosts Dan Rowan and Dick Martin even flaunted peace symbols on the pockets of their blazers. But by 1970, even as antiwar sentiment increased across the nation, ''Laugh In'' eased up on its dovishness.
The Smothers Brothers' upstart mocking of America's noble war effort eventually proved to be too much for CBS and that show was canceled. Dick and Tom Smothers and the folk singer Pete Seeger singing about ''the big fool Lyndon'' wading deeper into the muddy water rankled the hierarchy of this same network, which had abetted in the blacklisting of the humorist John Henry Faulk during the McCarthy period years earlier.
The civil rights struggle brought us the vantage-point observations of the black comedian Dick Gregory, who would admonish a nightclub heckler by telling him, ''Why don't you just burn your cross and get the hell out of here?'' Mr. Gregory began his career in a climate in this country that prompted a well-known ice-cream company to suddenly cancel sponsorship of the singer Petula Clark's television show because her hand had touched the hand of Harry Belafonte as they sang a duet. Dick Gregory gave little comfort to the North or the South when he said, ''In the South white people don't care how close I get as long as I don't get too big. In the North they don't care how big I get as long as I don't get too close.''
In the election of 1956, the satirist Mort Sahl told of the strong opposing civil rights stands taken by each candidate: ''Eisenhower says we should integrate moderately, but Stevenson wants to do it gradually.''
The Reagan era practically negated the old 60's establishment-bashing, exemplified by Mr. Sahl's suggestion that the American Medical Association was against faith healing and any other cure that was rapid. Mr. Reagan brought us a corporations-are-people-too sentiment, and it takes a 10-million-gallon oil spill or the revelation of a $500 million-a-year inside trader to get the public's attention to the extent that they might possibly relate to humor on these subjects. Nestled safely behind the curve of the Wall Street scandal, we can state that Drexel Burnham Lambert's inside-trading escapades were to free enterprise what mud wrestling is to the performing arts, and one wonders what Mr. Gelbart could do with Tom Wolfe's ''Bonfire of the Vanities'' or for that matter the H.U.D. revelations.
All of these events become blurred and run together to those of us ''marinading in media,'' as Russell Baker describes it. We see the mud wrestler Michael Milken defended by the attorney Arthur Lyman, whose performance for the Iran-Contra committee made him my matinee idol in the summer of 1987. In Washington we toss and turn at night wondering if Mr. Milken knows Colonel North. Did Richard Secord and Albert Hakim ever meet with Ivan Boesky at Fawn Hall's apartment? Or was it H.U.D.'s Debbie Dean? Or Donna Rice? Or Jessica Hahn, who knew Jimmy Swaggart, who converted Manuel Noriega?
As we are warned in ''Mastergate'' - ''watch your nightly news. It's only a matter of time before you're scandalized by the stars of the next, inevitable Whatever-Gate: another crowd of photo-opportunistic nobodies who grab the limelight before either being sent to jail or up to higher office.''
 
In the Mood For Some Humor
 The current glut of topical humor, good and awful, has burgeoned in the absence of a world war and national unemployment of 25 percent. When either occurs and the iconoclasts offer up their droll perceptions, the people again will not want to hear about it. Ask ''Doonesbury's'' Trudeau how those AIDS pieces went over out there in comic strip land.
Collectively, drugs, AIDS, the homeless and interest on the national debt, which has increased by millions of dollars since you started reading this sentence, all add up to Vietnam II, but in comedy clubs across the land Jim and Tammy Bakker and Leona Helmsley references dominate.
Paraphrasing Mr. Gelbart's paraphrase of Senator Howard Baker: What do Americans know and why don't they all see the humor in it? I visualize ''Mastergate'' having its premiere in Washington instead of New York. On opening night, Congressional V.I.P.'s file out of the theater, their goofy parliamentary parlance having just been thoroughly mocked. A senator bids a colleague goodnight as he climbs into his limousine and says, ''Great play, wasn't it? I'll see you bright and early tomorrow for our preliminary hearings with the sub-staff members of the permanent committee's temporary subcommittee on flag burning.''
 
THE WHOLE NINE YARDSKI
This is an excerpt from ''Mastergate'' by Larry Gelbart. The scene is the Sherman Adams Room of the John Mitchell Building in Washington, where Maj. Manley Battle is testifying before the House Select Committee to Investigate Alleged Covert Arms Assistance to Alleged Other Americas. Major Battle, under examination by Senator Bunting of the committee, stands at a map with a wooden pointer.
 
 MAJOR BATTLE: San Elvador lies just right of center here in Central America. It has a democratic form of government that has been run by its army for the past 40 years. Passionately anti-Communist, with a vigorous opposition press, a strong, vocal church and free elections that are promised regularly. But most geopolitically significant, there is San Elvador's unmistakable proximityship to its immediate neighbor to the far left, Ambigua. SENATOR BUNTING: Ambigua is totalitarily Lenin-Marxist? BATTLE: It's as red as the ace of hearts, sir. The whole nine yardski. BUNTING: And completely controlled by Moscow? BATTLE: Does the Pope ride an encyclical? (CROWD LAUGHS) BATTLE: Not that I mean to make light of the Communist menace. Or the Catholics, either.
BUNTING: Major, I'm sure that this committee, as well as the country for which we stand, would be most appreciative for you to share some of your daylight with us on that sad and benighted land.
BATTLE: Yes, sir. The Republic of Ambigua, or La Republica de Ambigua, is yet another betrayed revolution in which a legitimate set of high ideals were once more cruelly twisted and cynically Sovietized. The United States has had a long period of the most intimate relations with the Ambiguan government, the last 18 of Ambigua's presidents being West Point graduates. But a coup occurred and the reins of power changed hands three years ago when the former President of Ambigua, General Delinqua, and the country's Prime Minister, Mrs. Delinqua, were in New York on an emergency shopping trip, at which point the government was taken over by Dr. Overtega, a former podiatrist, and his band of foot soldiers.
 
c 1988. By Larry Gelbart. All rights reserved.

GRAPHIC: Caricature of ''Mastergate'' cast including Wayne Knight, Daniel von Bargen, Steve Hofvendahl, Jeff Weiss, Jerome Kilty, Joseph Daly, Tom McDermott Melinda Mullins, Ann McDonough, John Dossett and Zach Grenier (Al Hirschfeld) (pg. 1); photo of Larry Gelbart, the author of ''Mastergate,'' with Michael Engler, the director (Martha Swope) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MASTERGATE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SCANDALS (76%); THEATER (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ETHICS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); MAYORS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); POSTAL SERVICE (51%); 

PERSON: RUSSELL, MARK; GELBART, LARRY RONALD REAGAN (92%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 



199 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: WEEK IN BUSINESS;
A Trump Target: American Airlines

BYLINE: By WILLIAM S. NIEDERKORN

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump offered $7.5 billion for AMR, the parent of American Airlines. The company is expected to reject the $120-a-share bid. It was not clear whether Mr. Trump would pursue a hostile takeover against AMR's chairman, Robert L. Crandall, one of the most fiercely independent executives in the airline business. AMR's stock rose $20.75 following the offer, to close the week at $103.75.
 
*
 Fifty billion dollars will not be enough to bail out the savings and loan industry, L. William Seidman, chairman of the F.D.I.C., told the Senate Banking Committee, raising the possibility that the Administration would have to come back to Congress for a second bailout package. 
 
 * The Administration will regulate international money transfers by U.S. banks in an attempt to curb the laundering of drug profits, the Treasury said. The Government will open a financial crimes center next month to supply information on money laundering to several agencies.
 
 *
 The U.S. and Mexico signed the broadest agreement ever reached by the countries to spur trade and investment. The two governments are to decide by November on specific industrial sectors that could benefit from lower tariffs.
 
*
 The nation's unemployment rate edged up one-tenth of a percentage point to 5.2 percent in September as manufacturing payrolls shrank by more than 100,000 jobs, the Labor Department said. U.S. factory orders for manufactured goods rose 2.9 percent in August. New home sales fell 0.4 percent in August. The nation's purchasing managers reported a continued slowing in the manufacturing sector in their September report. Construction spending rose in August for Government and nonresidential building, but single-family housing sagged. Top retailers reported generally strong sales in September, but big-ticket, household durable goods lagged.
 
*
 The Dow industrials rose to 2,785.52, with a gain for the week of 92.70 points and three straight record- high closes. The dollar also rose, despite intervention, weakening indicators and the fact that interest rates were raised by West Germany and other European countries. All Treasury maturities advanced in the week, largely on the strength of the dollar and weakening economic indicators. Coffee prices plunged to a 14-year low as the International Coffee Organization struggled to make progress toward a new price-support agreement.
 
*
 Canada said it would cut more than 50 percent of its passenger train service, touching off bitter protests. The cuts, from 405 trains a week to 191 in the heavily subsidized rail network, were described as irreversible by Prime Minister Brian Mulroney's Conservative Government.
 
*
 A Senate panel approved a Democratic plan that would restore tax deductions for contributions to individual retirement accounts, while a Republican measure to reduce the capital gains rate lost on a tie vote. Republicans later said they might be willing to strike a deal to keep certain spending and tax measures, including their proposed reduction in the capital gains rate, out of a pending deficit reduction package.
 
*
 The European Community adopted a compromise plan of nonbinding rules that urge European television stations to devote a majority of their airtime to shows made in Europe. Subsequently, the Bush Administration warned that it might have to re- examine its support for community efforts to forge a single market by the end of 1992 if Europeans continued taking actions that discriminated against the U.S.
 
*
 Young & Rubicam was indicted, along with two of its executives and two Jamaican citizens, on charges that the agency participated in bribing Jamaican Government officials with almost $1 million to obtain the Jamaica Tourist Board's advertising account in 1981.
 
*
 Miscellanea. A House subcommittee voted unanimously to tighten automobile emission controls that would establish pollution standards as strict as California's . . . Zenith Electronics said it would sell its computer business to Groupe Bull for about $635 million . . . The Transportation Department proposed to open additional American cities to foreign airlines . . . G.M. and Chrysler plan to establish a joint venture to make manual transmissions and other components . . . USX said it planned to sell the reserves of its Texas Oil and Gas subsidiary . . . Prudential- Bache Securities was censured by the S.E.C. for numerous violations of securities laws . . . U S West will buy Financial Security Assurance, the largest insurer of corporate bonds . . . Bulova will offer watch faces with miniature copies of paintings by Leonardo, van Gogh and other masters.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Robert L. Crandall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: AMR (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (57%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (57%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; AMR CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BANK FAILURES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); COFFEE MARKETS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); NEW HOME SALES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); COFFEE (65%); RETAILERS (64%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (63%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (61%); TRAINS (60%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; NIEDERKORN, WILLIAM S DONALD TRUMP (92%); 



200 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2200 words

HEADLINE: Unfinished Business With Canada

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

DATELINE: TORONTO

 BODY:
Nine months after the United States-Canada free-trade agreement began chipping away at tariffs and trade barriers, trade relations between the world's two busiest trading partners have slipped once again to their accustomed place on the policy makers' back burner.
In Canada, after a hard-fought and suspenseful battle for passage, the Free Trade Act, as the pact is known, has been nudged out of the trade spotlight by other issues. Attention has shifted to Europe's efforts to wipe out trade barriers in 1992 and the Geneva negotiations on freer trade rules for the nearly 100 nations subscribing to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
In the United States, where the agreement never was as hot an issue, its slide down the agenda has been even more pronounced. Washington's attention, too, has been diverted by GATT negotiations and 1992, but also by the politically charged battle to get Japan and other Asian nations to open their markets further and by the completion last week of a free-trade agreement with Mexico. 
But big things are slowly taking shape in the shadows. Low-level negotiations to flesh out the agreement continue, including efforts to accelerate the schedule for removing thousands of tariffs by 1998. Both sides are looking ahead nervously to negotiations on some of the most important topics mentioned in the pact, notably reducing industry subsidies. And thousands of businesses on both sides of the border are already scrambling to adapt to provisions of the agreement. In addition to phasing out tariffs, the treaty removed or reduced numerous hurdles to cross-border investment, government procurement, agricultural sales and movement of employees.
 
Global Competitiveness
 How all of this unfolds may well have an impact on other trade matters that policy makers find more compelling. The pact is not just an overhaul of the rules governing trade that topped $180 billion last year, but also, like Europe's plans for 1992, an ambitious effort to help domestic companies compete as business becomes more global. Its phased reduction of tariffs and other reforms should level the playing fields among Canadian and American companies so that the strongest are freer to marshal their resources while the weak are weeded out.
And the agreement's dispute settlement procedures, though yet to be tested, may serve as an example for GATT and other trade agreements. ''It's a model of open markets,'' said Robert Blair, chairman of the Nova Corporation, an Edmonton, Alberta, petrochemical producer.
Here in Canada, where most industries consist of only a few players and fears of American dominance are part of the national birthright, the risks and benefits of that drive to create a free-trade zone from the Arctic Ocean to the Rio Grande are easier to pinpoint. For every well-publicized announcement that a company, like the Canadian subsidiary of E.I. du Pont de Nemours, is sharply increasing investment in response to the pact, there are terse releases saying companies, like Inglis Ltd., the 72 percent-owned subsidiary of the Whirlpool Corporation, will close some Canadian operations and import products from the United States.
''There may not be much public debate anymore but there's tremendous sensitivity, and the employees are knowledgeable where they are facing the effects of adjustment,'' said William Blundell, the chief executive of the General Electric Company's diverse Canadian operations.
''Adjustment,'' of course, is the polite term for the layoffs, wage cuts, production shifts and losses that many companies already face from the internationalization of business. Canadian opponents of the treaty, who hope that a future Government will abrogate it, routinely blame it for most bad economic news. But the companies expanding in Canada these days, like Du Pont, and those cutting back, like Whirlpool, Gillette, and Burlington Industries, invariably stress that the agreement is not so much the reason for their actions as an additional incentive to make the changes now rather than later.
 
'One Step Ahead'
 ''The people who are claiming they lost out because of the F.T.A. are really losing out to the third world,'' said William Neil, director of international affairs for the Canadian Manufacturers Association in Ottawa, ''The U.S. is just one step ahead in pressuring them.''
The treaty's effects are magnified here because more than 70 percent of Canada's exports go to the United States, which, in turn, sends just 22 percent of its exports to its vast but more sparsely populated neighbor. But both countries gain if they become more globally competitive.
Among the treaty's other benefits to the United States are more secure supplies of energy and natural resources, and opportunities for companies to expand in banking and financial services on an equal footing with Canadian competitors. And Canadian companies are stepping up their investments in the United States.
''The American plant is our insurance policy,'' said Harvey Nudel, president of Braemer Convertibles, a subsidiary of Toronto-based Dylex Ltd. that recently opened a furniture factory in Medina, in upstate New York. He said the plant provides a low-cost base for expanding into the United States and could serve Canadian customers if the Toronto factory did not adapt to growing import pressure. ''American-made furniture could flood the Canadian market as the tariffs, which were 15 percent, disappear over the next three years.''
Such investments go beyond new production lines. Braemer has hired an American manager for Medina and an American sales manager and has opened a showroom in High Point, N.C., the furniture capital of the United States. ''We have tried to buy the American way of thinking,'' Mr. Nudel said. Economists have estimated that by 1988 the accord will increase the United States output of goods and services by the equivalent of one-half a percentage point of G.N.P. and create 750,000 jobs. Ottawa has said Canada's economy, one-tenth the size of the United States', will get a much larger gain - perhaps 2.5 percentage points of G.N.P., and 250,000 jobs.
 
Too Early to Call
 No one knows whether these projections will be borne out. Nor, despite voluminous studies by both sides before the agreement, can anyone identify winners and losers whose fates clearly stem from the pact rather than economic trends in general. ''At this point, it would be like asking who will be the winner after 6 minutes of a football game,'' said Michael Dufour, a spokesman for Dominion Textile Ltd. of Montreal, Canada's largest textile company.
Some reasons for the uncertainty are fairly obvious, starting with the wide range of details negotiators left to be filled in later. Eight groups have been appointed to harmonize health and safety standards in agriculture, including labeling rules, to ease the flow of goods. Another group is tackling that problem in the fish products industry. And architects' associations in both countries are jointly fashioning licensing standards that both Governments will accept so members can practice in either country.
This harmonization, said Charles Roh, assistant United States trade representative for North America, is ''not stuff that stirs the blood of policy people, but it can stir up a lot of trade and make money for a business.''
And the trading partners have yet to deal with what may be the thorniest problem of all - how to reduce subsidies. Under terms of the treaty, this is to be addressed in negotiations that can take up to seven years.
''The real test of the F.T.A. is not the tariff cuts,'' said Peter Morici, professor of economics and Canadian studies at the University of Maine. ''It's the negotiating agenda.''
''There's a huge chunk of unfinished business that could blow up the whole thing,'' agreed Alan M. Rugman, a management professor at University of Toronto.
Adding to the touchiness of the situation is the widespread suspicion in each country that the other has achieved an advantage, or is about to do so. ''There are three people working on this at the U.S. trade representative's office and one at Commerce, compared to 40 in Canada,'' said Teresa Taylor, a policy analyst for the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition in Washington. ''Canada is ultimately going to gain more out of the treaty because they are paying more attention to it.''
United States trade officials deny that the agreement is being given short shrift. But they concede that other trade policy problems are taking priority. They say both sides are busy on the details, like deciding which tariff reductions may be accelerated after 550 companies and trade groups submitted petitions covering more than 5,000 items. And they say negotiations on more controversial issues, like subsidies, should be left until more data are gathered.
In Canada some policy analysts, like Mr. Rugman, say Ottawa is equally unprepared to push forward on major issues that remain. The Trade Negotiating Office led by Simon Reisman, who had direct access to Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada, has been disbanded and responsibility for the treaty has been given to the Department of External Affairs. That agency, the equivalent of the State Department, is more inclined to support multilateral efforts, like GATT, Mr. Rugman said.
Tensions between the two sides could soar as new dispute settlement mechanisms get their first tests. The accord sets up binational panels to review most trade disputes. And five-member binational boards will hear appeals of cases where government agencies determine that there has been dumping or approve a countervailing duty on what they consider an unfairly subsidized import. Until now, such cases could be appealed only to the other nation's courts, where delays and expenses were formidable and chances of reversal slim.
Canadians have high hopes that the new system will provide relief from the steady stream of countervailing duties, on products ranging from pork to stretch limousines. Some say it may encourage fairer reviews and quicker disposal of frivolous claims. Skeptics point out that the accord does not allow the panels to do anything more than determine whether a country followed its own laws, making any reversals unlikely.
Meanwhile, some Canadian businessmen say, the treaty is producing more bad news than good north of the border. ''I am now having some doubts about it because of the number of plant closures in Canada by subsidiaries of U.S. companies,'' said Brian Edwards, chief executive of Weiser Inc., a Burnaby, British Columbia, lock maker and subsidiary of the Masco Corporation of Taylor, Mich. ''There is rising concern among Canadian businessmen that it seems to be a one-way street,'' said Mr. Edwards, once an F.T.A. supporter but now neutral.
It is not one-way, of course. The Canada Malting Company, for example, was able to outbid United States and overseas rivals in March for control of the Great Western Malting Company, in Vancouver, Wash., making it the world's largest supplier of malt to brewers. And the treaty played a role, according to Jonathan Bamberger, the Toronto company's vice president in charge of finance and corporate development. ''The strategic advantage of being able to look at supplying all of North America from the combined companies was enhanced by free trade,'' he said.
 
Opposition From Labor
 Canadian labor unions, which represent 40 percent of the work force compared with 17 percent in the Untied States, remain resolutely opposed to the pact, and it is not hard to see why. Even the companies that expect to prosper may be making deep cuts in their labor forces.
Glendale Spinning Mills Ltd. in Hamilton, Ont., is responding to the phasing out of the 17 percent tariff on cotton yarn imports by investing heavily in automation. ''We will be producing about three times as much yarn with about one-third the work force by the end of next year,'' said Mohamed A. Kamel, the company's president. One positive result: the company expects to expand sales into the Northeastern United States. ''It's the only way to compete,'' he said.
Labor leaders and other critics say the treaty - and free trade in general - is being used to whittle away Canada's commitment to social benefits, like unemployment insurance, which is much more generous than that in the United States. And they say it is behind such controversial changes as the 9 percent sales tax recently proposed by the Conservative Government to replace corporate taxes that currently burden Canadian business. ''One of the consequences of a unified market is that you have to have common rules,'' said Bruce Campbell, an economist for the Canadian Labor Congress. ''The pressure is on.''
Some observers like Isaiah Litvak, an economist at the University of York here, say the critics have a point. ''There is a definite push toward standardization,'' he said, ''but it is naive to attribute the problem to the treaty.''
In an era of globalization, all industrial nations are feeling the same pressure, even if those whose economies are most dependent on trade, like Canada, are hardest hit.

GRAPHIC: Photo of trucks lined up in Buffalo to carry goods across the International Peace Bridge to Canada (NYT/Joe Traver); graphs of the percent of total exports and imports for Canada with the U.S. and for the U.S. with Canada, 1988 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (81%); DD (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (81%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (81%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (81%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (79%); ARCTIC (73%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); ARCTIC OCEAN (58%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (81%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (72%); CHEMICALS (69%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

 
