

201 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: After A Year Off, 'Idol Gives Back' Returns

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
''Idol Gives Back,'' the charity fund-raiser sponsored by ''American Idol'' and its producers, will return next season to raise money for poor children around the world, after taking a year off. The third fund-raiser is to take place on April 21, during the results show on ''Idol'' featuring the top seven contestants. 
The show is to begin broadcasting its ninth season in January. In 2008, the second ''Idol Gives Back'' raised more than $64 million from individuals and corporations. The Idol Gives Back Foundation has not yet released its 2008 financial statements, but the principals behind it -- Fox Broadcasting, FremantleMedia and 19 Entertainment -- said the bulk of the money went to six charities. Malaria No More, a charity co-founded by Peter Chernin, the former president and chief operating officer of News Corporation, the parent of Fox Broadcasting, received the largest grant, $12 million. Five other charities each received $10 million: the Children's Defense Fund, the Children's Health Fund, the Global Fund, the United States programs of Save the Children and Make It Right, a charity founded by Brad Pitt to help victims of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans. The remaining $2.3 million went to various African charity groups. After raising more than $140 million in two years, ''Idol Gives Back'' went on hiatus in 2009 when the economy fell into a recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); CHARITIES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MALARIA (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HURRICANES (65%); HURRICANE KATRINA (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); TROPICAL STORMS (51%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); NEWS CORP (69%); FREMANTLEMEDIA GROUP LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (55%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (ASX) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (58%); PETER CHERNIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



202 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Experience Guides Mexico As Swine Flu Cases Surge

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY and ANTONIO BETANCOURT

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
The man in the hospital bed complained of muscle aches and a fever so high he was sweating into his sheets. Two other patients, also confirmed to be infected with the swine flu virus, shared a special room with him, cut off from the general population.
 ''What bothers me is that they treat us as if we had done something wrong,'' said the man, Nestor Vazquez, 58, peering out from behind his covers last week. 
 Nearly six months have passed since Mexico, with the help of laboratories in the United States and Canada, discovered the presence of a mysterious influenza virus, an unknown strain that caused a spike in the number of flu cases at a time of year when they are usually in decline. Alarmed by the highly contagious new bug, whose lethality was then uncertain, the government closed schools and other public facilities, sent soldiers into the streets to hand out masks and urged Mexicans to cover their mouths if they sneezed or coughed and to forgo handshakes and, especially, kisses on the cheek.
 Mexico has had 245 deaths as of this week, helping make up the more than 4,100 deaths around the globe reported to the World Health Organization. But that is a relatively small number given the widespread contagion. For now, health experts remain most concerned with stopping the spread and watching for the possibility of the virus's mutating into a more lethal strain. 
 With the number of cases surging again in Mexico -- September had more new cases, 9,231, than any previous month -- the government says it has learned important lessons about what works and what does not when it comes to the strain, H1N1. Mass school and restaurant closings, which dealt a severe blow to Mexico's economy, are out. So are calls for Mexicans to huddle in their homes. 
 Instead, the government says it is adopting more focused measures, like keeping confirmed carriers like Mr. Vazquez temporarily under quarantine.
 ''I guess they just don't want us to contaminate anyone,'' said Mr. Vazquez, interviewed by a reporter who was himself in the hospital to be tested for swine flu. (The results were negative.) Some hospitals issue ''Negativo'' certificates to those who have been cleared, to be shown to teachers, employers or airlines.
 Early in the outbreak, when fear was rampant, seven million children in and around the capital were kept home from school. Now, individual schools and school districts close only when multiple cases are found. The states most affected have been scattered around the country, from Chiapas to Jalisco and from Mexico City to Yucatan, officials say.
 ''We're not taking drastic measures,'' Dr. Jose Angel Cordova, Mexico's health minister, said in a recent interview. ''With our past experience, we have learned that this is a relatively benign illness and that there are measures of control that are not that effective and others, like washing your hands, that work.''
 The blue masks that were so ubiquitous across the capital months ago -- Dr. Cordova used to have one strung around his neck as he briefed the news media on the latest death figures -- are now relatively rare outside of hospitals. President Felipe Calderon, who avoided shaking hands during the height of the crisis, has begun pressing the flesh again.
 Health officials are urging calm, especially because there will not be nearly enough vaccine available to cover the entire population. They are sending the message that although H1N1 carries serious risks, so do many other health threats. More people die from obesity and tobacco-related illnesses in a typical year, they say, than from influenza.
 Coughs in public places still cause alarm, and health officials say that their studies have shown that coughing, fever and breathing difficulties were the three main symptoms exhibited by those infected people who died. But they also said that most of those people were found to have had underlying medical conditions that complicated their cases.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: To prevent the spread of swine flu, Mexican children were given antibacterial gel when school opened in late August.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (92%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (91%); VIRUSES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); HOSPITALS (78%); DISEASE REPORTING (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); CHILDREN (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (63%); AIRLINES (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (91%) MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



203 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: When Stress Takes a Toll on Your Teeth

BYLINE: By CAMILLE SWEENEY

 BODY:
WITH economic pressures affecting millions of Americans, dentists may have noticed a drop in patients opting for a brighter smile, but they are seeing another phenomenon: a rise in the number of teeth grinders. 
 ''I'm seeing a lot more people that are anxious, stressed out and very concerned about their financial futures and they're taking it out on their teeth,'' said Dr. Steven Butensky, a dentist with a specialty in prosthodontics (aesthetic, implant and reconstructive dentistry) in Manhattan. 
 One of his patients lost hundreds of thousands of dollars invested with Bernard L. Madoff. Another reported that he had lost a job with a seven-figure salary. A third, a single mother with a floral design business on Long Island, said she was working twice as hard for half as much. 
 ''All three are grinders, directly affected by what's going on out there,'' Dr. Butensky said, gesturing outside his Midtown office window. 
 Dr. Robert Rawdin, another Manhattan dentist with a specialty in prosthodontics, said he had seen 20 to 25 percent more patients with teeth grinding symptoms in the last year. And in San Diego, Dr. Gerald McCracken said that over the last 18 months his number of cases had more than doubled. They, along with other dentists interviewed for this article, chalk it up to the economy.
 ''We're finding in a lot of double-income families, we have the people who have lost jobs and are worried, and then we have the spouse, who still has the job, with the added pressure and uncertainty,'' Dr. McCracken said. ''This can cause some real grinding at night.'' 
 With or without economic hardship, 10 to 15 percent of adult Americans moderately to severely grind their teeth, according to Dr. Matthew Messina, a dentist in Cleveland and a consumer adviser for the American Dental Association.
 Because it is a subconscious muscle activity, most grinders grind without realizing it, until a symptom such as a fragmented tooth or facial soreness occurs.
 While many experts believe that genetics may play a role in bruxism (or teeth grinding), stress has long been known to set off clenching and grinding in some people, Dr. Messina said. ''Recession breeds stress and our body responds to stressful events so in times like these, the incidence of bruxism goes up,'' he said, adding that over the last year or so he had heard from dentists around the country who had seen an uptick in patients with bruxism while also complaining about financial stress. In his own practice, he said he had treated twice as many cases in the last year than in the year before. 
 ''Stress, whether it's real or perceived, causes flight-or-fight hormones to release in the body,'' he said. ''Those released stress hormones mobilize energy, causing isometric activity, which is muscle movement, because that built-up energy has to be released in some way.'' 
 The most expensive option for rebuilding teeth damaged by grinding is with veneers, but this year, dentists say that many of their bruxism patients are requesting one of the least costly treatments: a night guard, also known as an occlusal splint. Manufacturers said sales of these devices had gone up. ''Our night guard sales have increased 15 percent over the prior year,'' said Greg Pelissier, a manager at Glidewell Laboratories, a maker of custom restorative, reconstructive and cosmetic dental products based in Newport Beach, Calif. 
 New drugstore products have also come to market, including a disposable night guard, Grind-No-More (about $30 for 14 guards). Its makers hope it will appeal to on-again-off-again grinders. 
 Stan Goff, executive editor of Dental Products Report, a monthly publication, wrote in an e-mail message that all this teeth grinding ''may be playing a role in the introduction of several new products designed to not only prevent bruxism, but to help fight against tooth sensitivity'' and other conditions that are aggravated by grinding. 
 While experts believe bruxism is not a dental disorder per se, but rather originates in the central nervous system, the condition can greatly affect the teeth and the entire craniofacial structure. 
 ''Normally, we exert about 20 to 30 pounds per square inch on our back molars when we chew,'' Dr. Rawdin said. ''But teeth grinders, especially at night without restraint, can exert up to as much as 200 pounds per square inch on their teeth.'' 
 Some nocturnal grinders will grind up to 40 minutes of every hour of sleep. The relentless wear and tear can quickly erode enamel (10 times faster than that of nongrinders), fracture teeth, affect bite and damage the temporomandibular joint at the hinge of the jaw, and the masseter muscle, which controls the jaws. Jaw and face pain, as well as earaches and headaches, may also occur.
 ''I kind of thought I was going crazy,'' said Adrienne Lee Kornstein, 48, a patient of Dr. Butensky, whose floral design business in Jericho, N.Y., has suffered because of the economy. ''A tooth broke for what seemed like no reason, and by the time I got to Dr. Butensky, I'd been to my physician, other dentists, even a dermatologist to try to get relief from migraines and facial pain I was taking painkillers for. I had no idea I was grinding or that grinding your teeth could even lead to all that.'' 
 The most common treatment for the disorder is to wear a night guard, which may not only alleviate grinding but, in some cases, train someone to stop grinding altogether.
 Fitted in the dentist's office, a custom guard is usually a clear, hard plastic device that runs over the top or lower teeth from front to back and prevents the top and bottom molars from making contact. Although not cheap (the price can range from $350 to $1,000), most dentists prefer a custom guard to over-the-counter guards, which are usually made of softer material and can encourage chewing and exacerbate masseter muscle activity. 
 There are also smaller prefabricated splints that a dentist can customize. These are generally cheaper than the fitted full arch guards and require fewer adjustments. But some dentists argue they are not as effective as the full arch guards. 
 Many teeth grinders interviewed said they would not go to bed without their night guards. 
 ''Sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night and having my guard in makes me more aware if I'm tensing my body or gripping my jaw, and I can just take a moment to relax,'' said Alisa Fastenberg, 50, a graphic designer in Manhattan. 
 Other treatments for teeth grinding include acupuncture, medical massage, hypnosis and Botox injections into the masseter muscle to relax the muscle enough to stop it from going into spasms without changing one's chewing function. 
 ''Grinding is like body building,'' said Dr. Alexander Rivkin, a head and neck surgeon at Westside Aesthetics in Los Angeles, who has also seen an increase in grinding-related cases this past year. ''The constant workout of the masseter muscle, the largest in the head, builds up that muscle and that can cause a lot of pain, not to mention make the face appear more square.''
 He added, ''For, I'd say, 85 percent of the people who come to me complaining about headaches, jaw soreness and pain, Botox injections into the masseter muscle on both sides of the face is the answer.'' 
 But even something as simple as taking time before bed to de-stress has been known to help. 
 ''Good sleep hygiene goes a long way to keeping the mind relaxed and the jaws from starting to smack together,'' said Dr. McCracken, who has studied the relation of sleep to teeth grinding. ''We know that the stress center of the brain is directly next to the part of the brain that controls teeth grinding. We're not sure how it relates to the disorder, but it's intriguing. Lately, I even tell my patients, before they go to bed, not to watch the news.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER LASSER/CORBIS) (pg.E1)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTISTRY (90%); BRUXISM (89%); FAMILY (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FUTURES (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



204 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2672 words

PERSON: Irving Penn 

HEADLINE: Irving Penn, Whose Camera Framed Spare Elegance, Dies at 92

BYLINE: By ANDY GRUNDBERG

 BODY:
Irving Penn, one of the 20th century's most prolific and influential photographers of fashion and the famous, whose signature blend of classical elegance and cool minimalism was recognizable to magazine readers and museumgoers worldwide, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. 
 His death was confirmed by Peter MacGill, his friend and representative. 
 Mr. Penn's talent for picturing his subjects with compositional clarity and economy earned him the widespread admiration of Vogue readers during his long association with that magazine, beginning in 1943. It also brought him recognition in the art world; his photographs have been exhibited in museums and galleries and are prized by collectors. 
 His career at Vogue spanned a number of radical transformations in fashion and its depiction, but his style remained remarkably constant. Imbued with calm and decorum, his photographs often seemed intent on defying fashion. His models and portrait subjects were never seen leaping or running or turning themselves into blurs. Even the rough-and-ready members of the Hells Angels motorcycle club, photographed in San Francisco in 1967, were transformed into the graphic equivalent of a Greek frieze. 
 Instead of offering spontaneity, Mr. Penn provided the illusion of something fixed, his gaze precisely describing the profile of a Balenciaga coat or of a Moroccan djellaba in a way that could almost mesmerize the viewer. Nothing escaped the edges of his photographs unless he commanded it. Except for a series of close-up portraits that cut his subjects' heads off at the forehead, and another, stranger suite of overripe nudes, his subjects were usually shown whole, apparently enjoying a splendid isolation from the real world.
 Probably most famous for photographing fashion models and cultural figures, he seemed equally at home photographing Peruvian peasants or bunion pads. Merry A. Foresta, co-organizer of a 1990 retrospective of his work at the National Portrait Gallery and what is now the Smithsonian American Art Museum, wrote that his pictures exhibited ''the control of an art director fused with the process of an artist.''
 A courtly man whose gentle demeanor masked an intense perfectionism, Mr. Penn adopted the pose of a humble craftsman while helping to shape a field known for putting on airs. Schooled in painting and design, he chose to define himself as a photographer, scraping paint off his early canvases so they could serve a more useful life as backdrops to his pictures.
 He was also a refined conversationalist and a devoted husband and friend. His marriage to Lisa Fonssagrives, a leading model, an artist and his sometime collaborator, lasted 42 years, until her death at the age of 80 in 1992. Mr. Penn's photographs of Fonssagrives captured a slim woman of sophistication and radiant good health and set the aesthetic standard for the elegant fashion photography of the 1940s and '50s. 
 Fonssagrives became a sculptor after her modeling career ended. In 1994 Mr. Penn and their son, Tom, a metal designer, arranged the printing of a book that reproduced his wife's sculpture, prints and drawings. In addition to his son, Mr. Penn is survived by his stepdaughter, Mia Fonssagrives Solow, a sculptor and jewelry designer; his younger brother, Arthur Penn, the director of films like ''Bonnie and Clyde''; three grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
 Mr. Penn worked for and collaborated with two of the 20th century's most inventive and influential magazine art directors, Alexey Brodovitch and Alexander Liberman. Mr. Penn was an unpaid design assistant for Brodovitch in the summers of 1937 and '38 at Harper's Bazaar, the most provocative fashion magazine of the day. But it was under Liberman, at Vogue, that Mr. Penn forged his career as a photographer.
 In an introduction to Mr. Penn's book ''Passage'' (1991), a compilation of his career, Liberman described meeting Mr. Penn in 1941: ''Here was a young American who seemed unspoiled by European mannerisms or culture. I remember he wore sneakers and no tie. I was struck by his directness and a curious unworldliness, a clarity of purpose, and a freedom of decision. What I call Penn's American instincts made him go for the essentials.''
 Darkroom Experiments
 Mr. Penn was also a consummate technician, known equally for the immaculate descriptive quality of his still-life arrangements of consumer goods and for his masterly exploration of photographic materials. Not content with darkroom conventions or the standard appearance of commercial prints, he was willing to experiment. He resorted to bleaching the prints of his nudes series, eliminating skin tones and making female flesh appear harsh and unforgiving but nonetheless sexually charged. 
 In the 1960s Mr. Penn taught himself to print his own pictures using a turn-of-the-century process that relies on platinum instead of more conventional silver. It produces beautiful, velvety tones in the image and is among the most permanent of photographic processes, but requires time-consuming preparation and precise control in the darkroom.
 Over the next 30 years Mr. Penn laboriously printed all his new work and reprinted much of his earlier work using the process, which requires mixing exotic chemicals and then hand-coating a sheet of drawing paper with them. Mr. Penn, who almost single-handedly brought the process back into popularity, perfected a method that greatly increased depth and luminosity.
 Mr. Penn's concern with the longevity of his prints was one aspect of an enduring career. Not only was he the photographer with the longest tenure in the history of Conde Nast, which publishes Vogue; he also created timeless images of fashion and celebrity, two areas of constant change. At the same time he took pains to acknowledge mortality and decay, focusing his more personal work on cigarette butts, sidewalk detritus and, in his 70s, on animal skulls.
 In his catalog essay for a 1984 retrospective of Mr. Penn's work at the Museum of Modern Art, John Szarkowski, then the museum's director of photography, wrote, ''The grace, wit, and inventiveness of his pattern-making, the lively and surprising elegance of his line, and his sensitivity to the character, the idiosyncratic humors, of light make Penn's pictures, even the slighter ones, a pleasure for our eyes.''
 Plans to Be a Painter
 Irving Penn was born June 16, 1917, in Plainfield, N.J. His father, Harry, was a watchmaker and his mother, Sonia, a nurse. As a student at the Pennsylvania Museum School of Industrial Art in Philadelphia (now the University of the Arts) from 1934 to 1938, Mr. Penn studied drawing, painting and graphic and industrial design. His most influential teacher was Brodovitch, a Russian emigre by way of Paris, familiar with the vanguard of European art and design. Brodovitch worked at Harper's Bazaar in New York, traveling to Philadelphia on Saturdays to meet with his students. Mr. Penn's graphic talent impressed Brodovitch, and he chose him to be his unpaid assistant for two summers at the magazine. 
 After finishing school and moving to New York, Mr. Penn was a freelance designer and illustrator for Harper's Bazaar and other clients. He also bought a camera and began to photograph Manhattan storefronts and signs. In 1940 he inherited Brodovitch's position as director of advertising design for Saks Fifth Avenue, but within a year he decided to go to Mexico to be a painter.
 Before leaving, Mr. Penn, at Brodovitch's suggestion, offered his position at Saks to Liberman, another Russian emigre designer. Liberman declined, but by the time Mr. Penn returned to New York in 1943, Liberman was the art director of Vogue, and he returned the favor by offering Mr. Penn a job as his assistant.
 Mr. Penn's first assignment was to supervise the design of Vogue's covers. Sketching several possible photographic scenes, he was unable to interest the staff photographers in taking them, so he took to the photo studio himself, at Liberman's suggestion. The first result was a color still-life photograph of a glove, a pocketbook and other accessories, published as the cover of Vogue on Oct. 1, 1943. Mr. Penn's photographs appeared on more than 150 Vogue covers over the next 50 years. 
 In World War II Mr. Penn drove an ambulance in Italy. Arriving in Rome in 1944, he spied the artist Giorgio de Chirico carrying a shopping bag of vegetables home from the market.
 ''I rushed up and embraced him,'' Mr. Penn recalled in ''Passage.'' ''To me he was the heroic de Chirico; to him I was a total stranger, probably demented. Still, he was moved and said, 'Come home and have lunch with us.' For two days he showed me his Rome.'' 
 During those two days Mr. Penn made his first black-and-white portraits, beginning what would become a celebrated archive of the leading artists, writers and performers of the second half of the 20th century.
 Returning to Vogue in 1946 as a staff photographer, Mr. Penn filled its pages with portraits of cultural figures like Edmund Wilson and W. H. Auden, still lifes of accessories, and graphic fashion photographs. His 1947 image ''Twelve of the Most Photographed Models of the Period,'' a group portrait, includes, at its center, Lisa Fonssagrives. Fonssagrives later appeared in some of Mr. Penn's most memorable fashion images, among them ''Mermaid Dress'' and ''Woman With Roses,'' both taken in 1950, the year she became his wife.
 Those pictures were made during Mr. Penn's first assignment to photograph the Paris collections for Vogue. Using a discarded theater curtain for a backdrop and a borrowed studio filled with daylight, he choreographed some of the most spare and delicate fashion photographs yet produced, treating the clothes less as dresses to be worn than as shapes to be perceived in silhouette.
 Unlike Richard Avedon, the other important new fashion photographer of the postwar period, Mr. Penn expressed himself and his subjects best through a Shaker-style restraint. In 1948, for example, he began to pose his portrait subjects by wedging them between two plain walls that met in a sharply angled vee, a scene offset by only a scrap of carpet, on which subjects like Spencer Tracy, Joe Louis and the Duchess of Windsor stood, crouched or leaned.
 The same year, while on assignment for Vogue in Peru, Mr. Penn ventured on his own to Cuzco and photographed the exotically dressed families who lived in the mountainous countryside, presenting them nonjudgmentally.
 An Eye on Other Cultures
 Two decades later he expanded on these portraits during trips to Dahomey (now Benin), to Morocco, to New Guinea and elsewhere, using a portable studio to provide a textured but seamless background. The pictures, both in color and in black and white, were featured annually in Vogue. In 1974 they were published in ''Worlds in a Small Room,'' which seemed to emphasize the perseverance of cultural diversity. Mr. Penn was also capable of making Western culture seem strange and fascinating. In the early 1950s he made a series of portraits of tradesmen in Paris, London and New York. Again relying on his spare studio to separate his subjects from their surroundings, he nevertheless insisted that the tradesmen wear the clothes and tools of their work: pastry chefs in white aprons and toques hold rolling pins; a fishmonger carries a fish in one hand and a rag in the other. 
 In 1949 and 1950, Mr. Penn produced images of female nudes as a personal project, using fleshy artists' models and focusing exclusively on their torsos. In the process of printing he attacked the light-sensitive paper with bleach and other chemicals to remove most of the skin tones, creating a rough chiaroscuro effect antithetical to then-prevailing notions of corporeal beauty. These unsettling pictures were not exhibited or published until 1980, when the Marlborough Gallery mounted a show called ''Earthly Bodies.'' The critic Rosalind Krauss, writing in the catalog, called the nudes ''a kind of privately launched and personally experienced kamikaze attack on his own public identity as a photographer of fashion.''
 The quest to undercut fashion's standards of perfection, and to find beauty in the disdained, overlooked or overripe, runs throughout Mr. Penn's career. In an otherwise pristine still life of food, he included a house fly, and in a 1959 close-up, he placed a beetle in a model's ear. 
 Mr. Penn acquired a reputation for perfectionism at all costs. In ''Passage,'' Liberman recounts that when Mr. Penn was asked to take a picture of glasses falling from a serving tray, he insisted that for authenticity's sake Baccarat crystal be used. Several dozen glasses were shattered before the photograph met Mr. Penn's standard.
 In the mid-1960s, fashion and fashion photography switched gears decisively. Neither his style nor his manner matched the era's spirit of sexual liberation and spontaneous, sometimes drug-assisted creativity. The public image of a fashion photographer became the anything-goes protagonist of Michelangelo Antonioni's film ''Blowup,'' played by David Hemmings. 
 Seeing Art in Cigarette Butts
 Mr. Penn observed the rebelliousness of the '60s with a curious eye, even taking an assignment from Look magazine to photograph the Summer of Love in San Francisco. But his stylistic confidence seemed to falter when it came to portraying the minimally structured garments and ultrathin models of the time. His photograph of the model Marisa Berenson, wearing a breast-plate-size peace sign and little else, suggests Mr. Penn's ambivalence about an era in which no clothes often seemed the preferable fashion. Not surprisingly, he concentrated on producing photographs intended to be viewed as art. In 1975 the Museum of Modern Art presented a small exhibition of his recent work printed using the platinum process: a series of greatly magnified images of cigarette butts, transformed from gutter discards to near landmark status, and showing Mr. Penn's penchant for straying far from the politesse of his fashion and portrait pictures. The cigarette butts were followed by a series focused on other forms of sidewalk debris, presented in platinum, which the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1977 exhibited in a show called ''Street Material.''
 As a result of those two exhibitions, Mr. Penn's work played a significant role in the rise of photography's fortunes in the art world. Since 1987 his pictures have been exhibited at the Pace/MacGill Gallery, which now represents his work. 
 Passing the age of 65 without a thought of retirement, Mr. Penn devoted himself increasingly to still lifes. On his own time he constructed tabletop arrangements of bones, steel blocks and bleached animal skulls. At the same time he produced several memorable portraits for Vogue of older artists of his generation, like Willem de Kooning, Isamu Noguchi and Italo Calvino, and began contributing portraits to the fledgling Conde Nast magazine Vanity Fair. In 1985 he began to draw and paint again, after a hiatus of 43 years. 
 A collection of many of his most important images was acquired jointly by the National Portrait Gallery and the Smithsonian American Art Museum in 1990. In 1996 Mr. Penn donated most of his archives and 130 of his prints to the Chicago Art Institute. The Morgan Library & Museum in New York acquired 67 of Mr. Penn's portraits in 2007 and exhibited them last year. Another major show opened last month at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles. 
 The critic Richard Woodward, writing in 1990, argued that Mr. Penn would be best remembered for the work he did for museum walls. ''The steelyunity of Irving Penn's career, the severity and constructed rigor of his work can best be appreciated when he seems to break away from the dictates of fashion for magazines,'' he wrote. ''Only then is it clear how everything he photographs -- or, at least, prints -- is the product of a remarkably undivided conscience. There are no breaks; only different subjects.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Irving Penn's subjects included, from left, Truman Capote (1965)
his wife, Lisa Fonssagrives-Penn (1950)
and the mudmen (1970). (PHOTOGRAPHS $
LEFT AND CENTER, CONDe NAST PUBLICATIONS
RIGHT, IRVING PENN) (pg.A1)
Pablo Picasso (1957) in Mr. Penn's close-up series.(PHOTOGRAPH BY $
IRVING PENN)
Irving Penn's ''Ballet Society,'' with Tanaquil Le Clercq, standing, and seated from left, Corrado Cagli, Vittorio Rieti and George Balanchine, artistic collaborators in a 1948 production.
Contrasting worlds, both taken by Mr. Penn in 1950: Above, a London charwoman
right, ''Woman With Roses,'' with Lisa Fonssagrives-Penn. (PHOTOGRAPHS $
CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS)
 Mr. Penn, shown in 1951, both embraced yet seemed to defy fashion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HORST/STALEY-WISE GALLERY) (pg.A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); SCULPTURE (75%); PAINTING (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Art, Fashion Design

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



205 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: Getting Government Contracts

BYLINE: By SHARON McLOONE

 BODY:
There are many federal contracting opportunities for small businesses, but to take advantage of them you have to know the ins and outs of the government's contracting rules and regulations. Of the more than 20 million small businesses in the United States, only about 500,000 are currently in a position to do business with the federal government. That's not because they are the only ones capable of doing the work; it's because they know how to get the work.
 Here's how big the opportunity is: small companies are eligible to bid on any size contract, but the government is required to reserve all federal purchases between $3,000 and $100,000 for small businesses -- unless the contracting officer can't get offers from two or more small businesses that are competitive on price, quality and delivery. 
 But before you try to woo the federal government, you have to have a track record. The government usually won't give a contract to a business if it doesn't have positive cash flow and if it hasn't been in business for at least two years, said Bridget Bean, district director of the Small Business Administration's Washington metropolitan area office. 
 The Small Business Administration offers a host of programs like HUBZone and the 8(a) Business Development Program designed to help firms demonstrate their qualifications. It's not easy for a small firm to score a federal contract, Ms. Bean conceded: ''It takes someone who wants to do this and avail themselves of all of the resources. These opportunities are not handed to people.'' (To read an interview with a successful contractor, click here.) Once you have decided that you want to pursue a federal contract and that you are ready to take the plunge, here's a to-do list:
 1. Select your North American Industry Classification System code -- better known as the NAICS code -- which is the standard used by federal statistical agencies to classify businesses for collecting and analyzing data related to the nation's business economy. There are a handful of private research firms that provide NAICS codes for specific companies, usually for a fee. For example, Dun & Bradstreet, Hoovers, Moody's Investors Service and IBISWorld all offer this service.
 2. Determine your small-business size standard based on your NAICS code.
 3. Register for a Dun & BradstreetDUNS Code, a free nine-digit identifier that helps track businesses globally. Dun & Bradstreet assigns DUNS numbers for each physical location of a business.
 4. Register in the Central Contractor Registration database to do business with the federal government. Bear in mind that contracting officers go to the database to look for small businesses to fulfill contracting requirements. ''If you're not in there, contracting officers won't know you exist,'' Ms. Bean said. There are currently about 500,000 companies, including foreign businesses, registered.
 5. Complete an Online Representation and Certifications Application but note that you must be registered in the Central Contractor Registration database before you do this.
 6. Sign up for FedBizOpps to receive notices of contract solicitations and requests for information. Small-business owners can customize the data they want to receive so that they will be notified only about contracts that their firms would be eligible to bid on.
 7. Visit the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization Directors, known as OSDBU. Each federal agency has such an office, whose mission is to help give contracting dollars to small businesses. You can review the list of offices to find out contact information for the federal agency or agencies you've decided you would like to work with.
 8. Meet with an S.B.A. Procurement Center representative. The representatives review and evaluate federal agencies' small-business programs and assist small businesses in obtaining federal contracts and subcontracts. They also counsel small firms.
 9. Meet with S.B.A. Resource Partners like Small Business Development Centers, SCORE and Women's Business Centers, all of which counsel and train on anything and everything small business, including government contracting.
 10. Contact your Local Procurement Technical Assistant Center (P.T.A.C.). These centers can help outline the requirements of government contracting and help you figure out how to obtain and execute federal, state and local government contracts. Some Small Business Development Centers are physically located with P.T.A.C.'s to help make the process easier for small companies. 
 11. Contact your Regional Federal Executive Board. These boards are located in cities that are hubs of federal activity and are composed of federal field office agency heads and military commanders in those cities. The regional boards generally look out for the well-being of contractors there and conduct community relations, according to Guy Timberlake, chief executive of the American Small Business Coalition, a trade group based in Columbia, Md., that helps its members do business with the federal government.
 12. Consider subcontracting and partnering. Research which companies in your industry have contracts and contact them to determine how your company can help fulfill their goals. Lourdes Martin-Rosa, American Express OPEN adviser on government contracting, recommends that small concerns getting started with federal contracting partner with a larger firm on their first contracts to get a feel for the process. 
 13. Decide which agencies to contact. Because there are thousands of federal departments, agencies and offices that offer small-business opportunities, it can be daunting to figure out where to start. Ms. Bean of the S.B.A. recommends choosing three agencies to focus on. ''There are a lot of federal agencies out there and within them are sub-agencies,'' she said. ''You need to hone your research and make sure that they buy your product or service.''
 Mr. Timberlake, of the American Small Business Coalition, said small-business owners might want to begin looking for contracts in their own backyard. Even if you don't live near Washington, there is probably a branch of a government agency within 20 to 50 miles of your location. For example, the Army Corps of Engineers is broken up into districts. Certain districts may focus on building dams while others focus on fighting forest fires. You can find a list of all agencies here. Ms. Bean also suggests finding out if the targeted agency hosts monthly outreach meetings to connect small businesses with their contracting officers.
 Whatever happens, don't get overconfident -- or discouraged. Many small firms are so excited when they win a contract that they put all of their attention on that one agreement and let other parts of their business slide. If you do secure a contract, ''you can rest on your laurels for one day,'' Ms. Bean said, but ''you have to be constantly marketing yourself, and these contracts aren't a permanent thing -- like funding could cease.'' She recommends that a small business begin marketing itself for other opportunities even when it has just been awarded a contract.
 And even if your firm doesn't win, you have 10 days to seek mediation by a contracting official. The mediator is required to explain why the firm didn't win the contract, which can enhance your learning process. You may also be able to review the winning bidder's proposal. Occasionally, decisions are changed.
 ''We've seen during a mediation there was a mistake and that's why the contract wasn't awarded,'' Ms. Martin-Rosa said. ''The government thought something was a 9 and actually it was a 7.''
 Quick Tips:
 Network. If you're selling acommunications tool that you believe will appeal to the military, for example, attend events held by a chapter of the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association.
 Think micro. Almost 300,000 government employees are authorized to make purchases that total as much as $3,000 through the SmartPay program. No contracts required.
 Know your acronyms. The government is rife with them, and the same acronym can mean different things to different agencies.
 If your application is rejected, seek mediation. The mediator is required to explain within 10 days why you didn't get the contract. 
 Suggested Reading (and Viewing):
 A government Web site that is touted as the ''official business link to the U.S. government'' and offers information on government contracting and other issues for small firms. 
 The Small Business Administration offers answers to frequently asked questions along with other valuable contracting information. 
 The Department of Labor has put together guidelines for small businesses doing business with the federal government.
 The Defense Department offers a guide on the basics of defense contracting for small companies. 
 The Environmental Protection Agency offers guidance on selling environmental products to the federal government through the Environmental Preferable Purchasing program. 
 American Express and the advocacy group Women Impacting Public Policy offer in-depth resources, including information about the federal government's goal of awarding at least 5 percent of its contracts to women-owned businesses. 
 Information for small businesses owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, and information on the same topic from the Defense Department's Office of Small Business programs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC CONTRACTING (94%); SMALL BUSINESS (93%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (62%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



206 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Spend Billions. Cut Deficit?

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
According to the new Congressional Budget Office analysis, the Senate Finance Committee's health care legislation would cost $829 billion to provide insurance coverage to millions of Americans. But over 10 years, it would also reduce federal deficits by $81 billion. 
 Huh? 
 Besides providing insurance coverage, the other main goal of the legislation is to slow the steep rise in federal spending on health care, particularly on Medicare, which covers Americans over age 65 and the disabled. The analysis by the nonpartisan budget office shows that the savings generated by slowing Medicare growth, combined with revenues from new taxes, would more than cover the cost of providing health benefits to 29 million people. 
 Medicare costs vary substantially from one part of the country to another, and frequently the places where spending is highest, or growing the fastest, are not achieving better outcomes for patients, health experts say. 
 ''There is a lot of unnecessary care being provided in Medicare,'' said Elliott S. Fisher, who helps produce the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, which has long tracked regional disparities in medical spending. 
 Many health economists say that reducing costs in high-growth parts of the country, so they are closer to the national average, could save the nation hundreds of billions. And they predict that patients would not perceive any reduction in the quality of care. 
 ''Most of the differences across the country in spending are in how much time people spend in the hospital, and then when they are there, how many different doctors they see, how many difference specialists are involved in their care,'' Dr. Fisher said. ''Nobody thinks that residents of San Diego or San Francisco or other low-growing regions are being denied appropriate referrals to specialists. They are just not getting unnecessary ones.'' 
 Some experts, though, say the legislation would still not do enough to eliminate wasteful spending. And that debate is certain to intensify in Congress. 
 DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



207 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: A House as a Symbol of Openness

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

DATELINE: GREENCASTLE, Ind. 

 BODY:
 WHEN Brian W. Casey was interviewing for the job of president of DePauw University here, what he found most daunting was not the prospect of raising the profile of this liberal arts college, or winning over the faculty and students. 
 What worried him was The House.
 The president's house is a formal Colonial Revival-style building at the edge of this small liberal arts campus here in rural Greencastle, 45 minutes southwest of Indianapolis. Since 1925, every DePauw president had lived in the house -- with his wife. 
 Dr. Casey was the only finalist who did not ask to see the house, and when he saw it, his face fell. ''Don't worry, we'll make sure it works for you, Brian,'' one of the trustees, Sarah Wallace, the head of the search committee, whispered to him. 
 Dr. Casey, a historian and former associate academic dean at Harvard University's Faculty of Arts and Sciences, is 46 and single, which makes him an anomaly among college presidents. A 2006 study by the American Council on Education found that 73 percent of college presidents were male, and 89 percent of them were married. 
 When he interviewed for the job here, he was living, happily, he said, in an 850-square-foot rental in Cambridge.
 It wasn't just the prospect of living alone in the three-story house that daunted him, Dr. Casey said. It was the social duties that came with it. Even the official name of the house -- The Elms -- seemed formidable. 
 Now, as he begins his second year leading the university, Dr. Casey has not only adjusted to living at The Elms, he has also reinvented the house and its role on campus. He regularly invites professors, students, staff members and visitors to the house, which has shed its heavy drapes and visually become more open and welcoming. 
 He wanted to use the house as ''an engine for change,'' he said. ''It's become a place of talk and conversation and debate -- what a house on campus ought to be.'' 
 He has made The Elms the place to be on campus, and there is nothing exclusive about it. 
 ''The house has become a metaphor for what Brian is doing with the whole campus,'' said Lisa Hollander, DePauw's vice president for alumni relations. ''Warming it up, opening it up.''
 Greg Schwipps, an English professor, novelist and 1995 DePauw graduate, recalled his excitement last fall as he prepared to attend the first of a series of small working faculty dinners at Dr. Casey's house. In his 12 years as a faculty member, he had never stepped foot inside the president's house. He had received invitations to annual receptions, he said, but as a junior professor, he had always felt too intimidated to show up. 
 ''I said to one of my students, 'I'm invited to the president's house for dinner,' '' Professor Schwipps said. ''He said, 'Cool, I've already been twice.' '' 
 By the time they had made Dr. Casey the leading finalist, the trustees were captivated by his passion and plan for transforming DePauw into one of the nation's very best small liberal arts colleges. 
 He had a law degree from Stanford, two graduate degrees in history from Harvard and an undergraduate degree in philosophy and economics from Notre Dame, where he was captain of the swim team. Ebullient and youthful, he was already connecting with students. 
 The one question, for Dr. Casey and, fleetingly, for a few trustees, was about a single guy serving as the host at The Elms. ''Entertaining, for me, when I lived in Boston and New York, was telling everyone what restaurant we're all going to meet at,'' he said. ''I can't cook a thing. I'd never thrown a huge dinner party, I'd never done any of this. And all of a sudden I realized it was part of the job I hadn't thought of at all.'' 
 His talent, he said, was for being a guest at parties. ''I was always the person who took care of the music. I'd burn CD's, or bring my iPod.''
 The previous president, Robert Bottoms, who is widely admired for diversifying the college and building the endowment and had retired after 22 years, had relied on his wife, Gwen, as the hostess of The Elms. He could not have done the job without her, Dr. Bottoms said. ''She was kind of like the first lady of DePauw,'' he said.
 ''I don't have Mrs. Brian Casey,'' Dr. Casey said. ''I don't have the partner who is going to do this with me.'' 
 But he told the search committee he'd come up with a solution to the matter of the president's house. He would simply invite everyone for regular dinners and parties. As for his lack of a spouse, he would enlist the help of a group of students as his co-hosts. 
 ''I loved that idea,'' Ms. Hollander said. ''We have the most social student body. That sounded so right.'' 
 Last Thursday night, Dr. Casey held the annual trustees dinner, with his 13 student ambassadors at his side. 
 ''This place is more alive than it's ever been,'' said Kathy Hubbard, a trustee, looking around at the multigenerational crush of 96 guests ranging in age from 20 to over 60, 
 Trustees and their spouses mingled with professors and staff members. After checking to make sure his iPod was ready with the playlist he had created for the evening (including John Coltrane -- ''In a Sentimental Mood,'' Astrud Gilberto -- ''Corcovado,'' Diana Krall -- '''Deed I Do'' ), a smiling Dr. Casey was making the rounds. 
 Matt Jennings, 23, a new trustee and 2009 DePauw graduate who is now with Teach for America, recalled returning last fall from studying in Paris. Dr. Casey walked him around campus and described the DePauw he wanted to create. ''On that day,'' Mr. Jennings said, ''I realized I loved Greencastle more than Paris.'' 
 It was close to 11 when the last guests left, still exclaiming over the after-dinner performance by Adam Gilbert, a student ambassador, of Schumann's ''Dichterliebe'' and Broadway show tunes (piano accompaniment provided by a trustee, James B. Stewart, the journalist and author). With the party over, Dr. Casey offered a tour of the house, starting at the front door. 
 ''I walked in, and I thought, 'I can't live here,' '' he said, recalling his first visit. He waved his hand at the long sweep of hallway. ''It's 114 feet to the other end.'' 
 One of his first acts as president was to remove the curtains covering the glass panes of the front doors. ''I wanted people to see in,'' he said. Such gestures carried a lot of weight with the faculty. (''It's a transparent house,'' said Pedar Foss, a classics professor who is dean of academic life.) 
 Dr. Casey led the way into the small white dining room, with the built-in bookshelves, that had been a little-used study. Here, he said, is where he holds faculty dinners for 8 to 10 people. ''I love dining rooms with lots of books,'' he said. ''I thought this would be a great place to have conversations about DePauw and the curriculum.'' 
 The dining room was inspired by the great parties he'd been to at a friend's small apartment on the Upper West Side, where the table was squeezed in among the bookshelves. 
 He pointed out the color-coded books. Red and orange -- ''The Economic Value of Higher Education'' and ''Blacks at Harvard;'' tan and beige include ''Our Underachieving Colleges,'' and ''All the King's Men.'' It is one of the stories people tell about Dr. Casey's house. 
 Last Christmas, he had offered to put the house on Greencastle's historic house tour for the first time. While he was traveling for work, decorators arrived to prepare the house.
 ''I came home to find this winter wonderland -- garland everywhere,'' he said. ''I walked into the dining room and they had taken all my books and put them back on the shelves arranged by color.'' 
 ''It's really strange,'' he said, scanning the shelves, ''when you realize how many books you have that are orange.'' 
 ''Now when I have to find a book, I have to think, 'What color is it?' ''
 The trustees had raised the money to make the necessary changes to the house, which mostly involved opening it up, pruning overgrown shrubs and trees, repairing water damage, creating a large catering kitchen -- in the past the food was prepared off-site -- and painting the Tiffany blue dining room in creamy white and silvery gray. Small lights were also installed in the ceiling. 
 In his rare down time, Dr. Casey unwinds in the private part of the house -- a small living room behind the kitchen, with a pair of contemporary sofas, a wooden desk and ladder bookshelves from his previous life. Back stairs lead to his bedroom suite, on the second floor, where there are also four other bedroom suites where he invites trustees, and other visitors, to stay.
 ''There was one night I was in the private living room,'' he said, and decided to sit by the fireplace in the grander, public one. ''I had this book, I walked over -- it's a long walk,'' he said. ''I'm sitting in this room, I was trying to read. I felt like I was in some bizarre Hollywood piece. I left.'' 
 He led the way into the remodeled white kitchen and out to the stone patio, with its new fireplace and white trellised pavilion. 
 He stood at the edge of the pool and told a story that has already become part of campus lore about the president's house. 
 Karl Rove and Howard Dean were on campus last month for a debate. Dr. Casey held a party in their honor before the event. It was a warm afternoon, and people were mingling on the patio. 
 ''So Karl Rove says to me, 'President Casey, I really want to talk to you, come over here,' '' he said. ''The light was on the pool. I looked down, and I thought, 'Oh, there's this huge clump of dead leaves in the pool.' '' 
 On second glance, oh, no. ''It was a dead mouse,'' he said. ''Karl Rove reaches over, grabs a napkin, reaches in, grabs this big dead mouse -- and throws it in the shrubs. He walks back over.'' 
 He thanked Mr. Rove, and told him, ''You are never to mention this to anyone.''
 Later that night, in his opening remarks before a packed auditorium, Mr. Rove announced to half the campus that there was a dead mouse in Dr. Casey's pool. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHANGES: Since becoming president of DePauw University last year, Brian W. Casey has reimagined his official residence -- a Colonial Revival-style house called The Elms -- and its role on campus. To make it more transparent, he has removed the curtains from the front doors, above, and opened the place to students, professors, staff members and trustees. At a recent dinner, Dr. Casey, left at top right, joked with Chuck Iikubo, a trustee. The private part of the house has a living room, bottom right, with modern sofas and zebra-print coffee tables. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AJ MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); HISTORY (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); WRITERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



208 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Twins Celebrate While They Can

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
If not for those pesky Major League Baseball playoffs that start today, the Minnesota Twins might still be circling the old, dumpy Metrodome, high-fiving their fans amid whirling Homer Hankies and awash in down-home Midwestern love. The Twins not only took over their hometown, they charmed the heck out of everyone not a die-hard Tigers fan.
 Remember how big Brett Favre was in Minneapolis on Monday? Neither does anyone else. He is so two days ago. 
 The Twins turned their 163rd game of the season into a splendid finale, writes Gene Wojciechowski on ESPN.com, and even the Tigers were saying it was the greatest game they have been a part of, writes Michael Rosenberg in the Detroit Free Press. The Twins have become an easy team to love, writes Jay Mariotti of Fanhouse.com, with lunch-pail players and a sardonic manager.
 Even with a strong strain of sympathy for economically ravaged Detroit, the Tigers became less Cinderella-y after the drunken escapades of first baseman Miguel Cabrera over the weekend, for which he apologized before the game. But they certainly played their part in turning the game epic. You can relive the top 10 plays of the game on this Yahoo Big League Stew blog post, complete with links to MLB.com video highlights of each play, or just marvel at a Twins team that now believes it can beat anyone, writes Dan Wetzel on Yahoo.com.
 Sure, there are a few killjoys who quickly stepped in to mention that the Twins have to play the Yankees next, like ESPN.com's Jayson Stark who believes the title will return to the Bronx after nine long years. Sure, the Twins should be completely exhausted, writes Ben Reiter on SI.com, and the Yankees are one of the powerhouse teams packing the playoffs, but Steve Aschburner of SI.com writes that the Metrodome just does not want to die.
 The Yankees, though, will quickly become a focal point of the playoff drama, with Lisa Olson of Fanhouse.com writing that they are risking team chemistry by taking Jorge Posada from behind the plate when A.J. Burnett pitches. The key questions in the playoffs outlined by Scott Miller on CBSSports.com include the playoff fates of Yankees pitcher C.C. Sabathia and third baseman Alex Rodriguez. Tom Verducci of SI.com takes a bigger step back to consider more story lines from the playoff teams. Joe Posnanski writes on SI.com that the playoffs always throw surprises at us and Bill Shaikin writes in the Los Angeles Times that there is at least one person rooting for a Freeway Series between the Angels and Dodgers (him) despite its environmentally unfriendly connotations. It would, writes Mark Yost on WSJ.com, give us more time to enjoy Dodgers broadcaster Vin Scully before he retires.
 The N.F.L. counters all this hype with the news that the Favre-o-rama on Monday Night Football was the highest-rated show in cable history, and throws in a few choice pieces of news for the non-baseball set, including Cleveland shipping the increasingly unpopular receiver Braylon Edwards to the Jets -- which Mary Kay Cabot of the Cleveland Plain Dealer writes is a deal that should have happened before the N.F.L. draft -- and first-round draft pick Michael Crabtree reportedly ending his holdout with the 49ers.
 For a good laugh at some N.F.L. teams' agony, consider a new set of logos that take current circumstances into account.
 Or you can just go back to celebrating the Twins. Just steer clear of Miguel Cabrera.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (61%); ESPN INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (94%); DETROIT TIGERS (90%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



209 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Travel Sector Takes Steps To Resist Flu

BYLINE: By MARTHA C. WHITE

 BODY:
The travel industry was hard hit after the first reports of swine flu emerged from Mexico in the spring. Trips were canceled, destination weddings were moved elsewhere and flights were grounded as traveler demand plummeted.
 So the industry, already reeling from the effects of the recession, has reason to be cautious as the autumn flu season gets under way. Still, because the H1N1 pandemic strain, or swine flu, has generally not been more virulent than ordinary seasonal flu, airports, hotels and airlines are trying to find a balance between showing that they are taking substantive steps and not acting so aggressively that they set off a panic among travelers. 
 Their actions can best be described as preventive. So instead of cutting back on high-traffic services like buffet dining in areas affected by the virus, as they did in the spring, hotel representatives say they are focusing on day-to-day measures. 
 Most major hotel brands, among them Marriott, Hilton, Starwood and Intercontinental, are ramping up the cleaning of items most frequently touched by guests, like phones, hand rails, elevator buttons and fitness equipment. And they have added signs in the kitchens, administrative offices and other ''back of the house'' parts of hotels, reminding employees to wash their hands frequently and to cough or sneeze into a tissue rather than their hands. 
 Some hotels are placing tissues and dispensers of hand sanitizer in public areas. A spokesman for Marriott International, John Wolf, said the company's hotels were stockpiling items like rubber gloves and making hand sanitizer available upon request to conference groups meeting at properties it managed. 
 Airports around the United States are also adopting alcohol-based hand sanitizers. Airports from Anchorage to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., are placing the dispensers in high-traffic areas, often near security checkpoints (where travelers must remove their shoes) and by entrances and exits. They are frequently accompanied by signs explaining proper hygiene practices. 
 In addition, the signs at security checkpoints that remind travelers about banned items and security protocols are being joined by ones that highlight flu symptoms and ask travelers to keep their coughs and sneezes to themselves. 
 Once on board a flight, though, cautious travelers will have to make sure they have packed their own supplies. While most of the legacy domestic carriers like US Airways have first-aid kits that include sanitizing gel, they say they are not planning to add dispensers in lavatories or elsewhere in the aircraft. 
 Contrary to popular belief, the air on planes is not the Petri dish of germs many travelers assume it to be, said Dr. Nina Marano, an expert on travelers' health at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. ''I think people are sort of worried about cabin air,'' she said, ''but the air filtration systems in aircraft are highly sophisticated.'' A representative of United Airlines called the carrier's air filters ''hospital grade.''
 Still, the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA, the union representing about half of all flight attendants in the United States, is pushing for additional preventive measures. Chris Witkowski, its director of air safety, health and security, said the association was lobbying to have high-grade N95 respirator masks -- one for every crew member -- on every flight. For its part, the Air Transport Association of America, which represents domestic airlines, says the C.D.C. has suggested that airline personnel consider wearing N95 masks only when in ''close contact'' with flu-stricken passengers.
 Ordinary surgical masks do not work well when it comes to protecting the healthy, the C.D.C. said. Unlike N95 respirator masks, which offer protection against airborne particles, surgical masks are effective only against droplets, the agency said. 
 An industry consultant, Robert W. Mann Jr., said in an interview that airlines might be worried about consumer response to some preventive measures. ''I don't think airlines want to go in the direction of latex gloves and masks,'' he said, ''because it's somewhat alarming to people.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the World Health Organization, Aphaluck Bhatiasevi, says the group encourages governments not to funnel too many resources into screening all travelers. Still, Dr. Marano of the C.D.C. said, travelers should expect to encounter a wide range of health protocols when entering foreign countries.
 Steven Lott, a spokesman for the International Air Transport Association, which represents 230 airlines around the world, said the group spent weeks earlier this year distilling a hodgepodge of entry questionnaires into a single document that could be distributed to fliers. 
 Last month, the C.D.C. reported that 936 Americans had died of flu symptoms or of flu-associated pneumonia since Aug. 30, when it began a new method of counting of deaths, including some without lab-confirmed swine flu. The regular flu season starts in November. 
 For travelers, the overarching message is one of personal accountability. ''Frequent fliers tend to be pretty prepared,'' Mr. Mann said. ''I think the fact that people are somewhat sensitized to the issue will pay off in having people be more prepared.'' 
 Business travelers seem to be getting the message. 
 ''I was actually quarantined during the SARS epidemic, so I'm being quite careful this time,'' said David Jansen, who works in the anticorruption division at PricewaterhouseCoopers, recalling a trip to Hong Kong in 2003, when the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome was sweeping through parts of Asia. 
 As a consultant who is on the road roughly half the time, Mr. Jansen says he has already started taking precautions. ''It's frequent hand-washing, and I take antibacterial wipes with me,'' he said. ''I definitely make sure I take my vitamins and fish oils and Airborne tablets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hotels across the country, including the Marriott Marquis in New York, are stepping up efforts to clean the items most frequently touched by guests, like handrails, phones and elevator buttons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (93%); HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (91%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); HAND SANITIZERS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRAVELERS HEALTH (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%); FIRST AID (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (84%); LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



210 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: First-Round Playoff Tickets Less Costly

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Playoff games bring out desperate fans who will pay hundreds or thousands of dollars to see their team play for a World Series championship. 
 This season, fans appear to be getting a reprieve, however slight. Ticket prices in the first round of the playoffs are down from previous years in several cities. That included Game 1 between the Yankees and the Minnesota Twins at Yankee Stadium, home to the highest ticket prices in the majors.
 Seats in the second-to-last section in the upper deck in left field were being sold for as little as $48 (including fees), about twice their $23 face value, according to FanSnap, a Web site that tracks prices on five dozen ticket resellers. 
 Over all, the average price for tickets to the American League division series games at the Stadium was $170, 19 percent less than the $210 fans paid when the Yankees played the Cleveland Indians in the first round of the playoffs in 2007, according to StubHub. 
 Prices are also lower in Boston, Los Angeles and Philadelphia. 
 Several factors are behind the relative bargains, ticket sellers said. The Yankees chose to keep prices for the first round of the playoffs the same as during the regular season. The Twins are a weaker, less popular opponent than, say, the Boston Red Sox.
 Most of all, the weak economy has tempered expectations. In years past, ticket sellers tried to get far more for their seats and lowered their prices only at the last minute if they could not find buyers. This year, sellers are setting their prices lower at the start.
 ''Right now, we're seeing a lot more sellers being reasonable,'' said Jason Berger, managing partner at AllShows.com. ''I hear a lot of people say: 'What's the cheapest ticket I can get? I don't want to break the bank.' ''
 Some fans recoiled when the Yankees raised the price of their nonpremium seats 86 percent this year. The team sold out only seven games this season -- opening day and six games against the Red Sox -- despite having about 6,000 fewer seats in the new stadium.
 On Wednesday, there were a handful of empty premium seats, but no empty rows that were often visible during the regular season. The announced attendance was 49,464, a sellout.
 The outfield bleachers were full as usual. Tickets in the two sections with obstructed views of the field had a face value of $6, but were being resold for $100 or more.
 Ed Flynn and Bill Groff from Wayne, N.J., said they each spent $109 for tickets in Section 201, which is next to a concrete wall that blocked their view of left field and of Derek Jeter's home run, which landed near the foul pole.
 ''We knew there were obstructed views, but we're at the first playoff game in the new stadium,'' Flynn said. ''You can put me anywhere.''
 In Section 239, on the other side of the Mohegan Sun Sports Bar in center field, Jackie Friedman-Collins and her husband, Pat, had perhaps the cheapest seats in the stadium. As part of her Sunday ticket plan, she was able to buy tickets before the general public. The two $6 bleacher seats were all she could get.
 ''I'd rather be here than in a restaurant or theater,'' said Friedman-Collins, flashing her gold necklaces with Yankee logos, including one with a half-karat diamond in it. ''You can't see right field, but I'm still here.''
 For only the second time this season, the Yankees sold 60 cafe seats in the concourses on the first and second levels. 
 Howard Van Hassent and his son, Cory, bought two seats for $81 each from the Yankees on Wednesday morning. They sat in metal chairs and had a long table to themselves. A parade of fans walked behind them. In front of them was an empty area for people with disabilities and seats costing hundreds of dollars.
 Van Hassent was grinning as he considered his premium view.
 ''I have to try to get these for the next game,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); MINNESOTA TWINS (83%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (56%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



211 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: U.S.O.C.'s Embattled Chief Says She'll Step Down

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS and JULIET MACUR

 BODY:
Stephanie Streeter, the acting chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee, whose rocky seven-month tenure culminated in Chicago's failure to win the 2016 Olympic Games, announced Wednesday that she would step down after the close of the Paralympics in Vancouver next March.
 The announcement followed several days of intense criticism and kicked off what is likely to be a period of reassessment by leaders of the Olympic committee, who have acknowledged that Chicago's last-place finish in the vote Friday was a result in part of the United States' diminished influence in the international sports world. Rio de Janeiro was selected to host the 2016 Games. 
 Although Streeter said she made her decision several weeks ago, the statement came on the same day that leaders of the governing bodies of Olympic sports in the United States expressed a vote of no confidence in her leadership and that of Larry Probst, the chairman of the U.S.O.C.'s board of directors.
 For their most outspoken critics, Streeter's decision did not go far enough. Some said they thought she should exit quickly, before the Vancouver Games in February, while others called for Probst's resignation. 
 ''How effective is anybody in any field after they've announced their resignation?'' said Dick Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Universal Sports, which has invested billions of dollars for the United States media rights to the Games.
 By not naming a chief executive before the Vancouver Games, Ebersol said, the United States will lose the opportunity to introduce the new leader to the international community. ''I believe this whole thing is just to give Stephanie one moment in the sun, and that's not what we should be thinking about right now,'' he said.
 Streeter, 52, is a former executive of Banta Corporation, a printing and supply chain company. ''My decision is really about returning to the corporate sector,'' Streeter said in a conference call Wednesday. ''I love running large companies. It's where I've been successful. It's more about a decision to go back to that than anything else.''
 The search for a new chief executive will begin shortly, said Probst, adding that he hoped to have a new person in place by the end of the first quarter of 2010. 
 The search committee will be headed by Bob Bowlsby, a member of the Olympic committee's 10-member board. The board has a vacancy, and a candidate for that position will be announced by the end of next week, Probst said.
 He said he would not step down as chairman. ''If the question is, am I going to resign, the answer is, I don't have any plans to do that,'' Probst said. 
 Although Probst had kind words for Streeter, his wish list for the next chief executive exposed the shortcomings of her resume. 
 ''In a nutshell, I would say that it's somebody that had the executive skills that Stephanie has, married with a background in sports,'' he said, ''someone who is multilingual and someone who is willing to make a very long-term commitment and has the ability to travel extensively all over the world.''
 Streeter has been acting chief executive since March, when Probst and the board -- of which she was a member -- selected her to replace Jim Scherr, who had served in the position for six years. Her arrival was criticized by members of the national governing bodies, who said she and Probst, the chairman of the video game publisher Electronic Arts, did not have the Olympic experience required to do the job. 
 The next chief executive will face significant challenges. The U.S.O.C. and the International Olympic Committee are at odds over what many view as the Americans' inordinate share of television and global marketing revenue, and the I.O.C. rebuked the United States this summer over its now-delayed plans to start an Olympic network. 
 ''We need to do the work and take the time over the long haul to have more of a presence in the international community and with the International Olympic Committee,'' Probst said. ''So that's really got to be the plan.'' 
 Harvey Schiller, a former U.S.O.C. chief executive now with the International Baseball Federation, said the job was difficult to fill because the U.S.O.C. deals with volunteers, sponsorships and international organizations on a daily basis. 
 ''I think that the new person will be someone who has been there before, but may not be there now, would be a good fit,'' Schiller said, adding that Streeter's replacement should be selected before the Vancouver Games. He said he was not interested in the position. 
 Ebersol said the U.S.O.C. should forgo an extensive search and look to established sports executives, like Steve Penny, the president of USA Gymnastics, and Chuck Wielgus, executive director of USA Swimming. ''These people exist right now, and they're running the major sports federations,'' he said. 
 Penny said he was honored to be named but declined to comment. Wielgus said he loved his job.
 Streeter's announcement came on the day that the Association of Chief Executives for Sport, which represents leaders of 46 sports governing bodies in the United States, released the results of an internal 63-question survey on the future of the U.S.O.C. By a vote of 40-0, they answered ''No'' to the question of whether Streeter had the ability to be an effective leader of the Olympic committee. Twenty-nine of 43 respondents said they had ''no confidence'' in Probst's ability to be an effective leader. 
 Skip Gilbert, the chairman of the association and chief executive of USA Triathlon, called on Streeter and Probst to step down immediately. ''It would be as if you had an athlete that just could not perform at the level that you expect,'' he said. ''As a manager, you're going to make a change.'' 
 The survey was by secret vote, and at least one sports leader offered a dissent. ''There is too much at stake to just call for resignations,'' Dieter Esch, chairman of USA Team Handball, said in a statement. ''We are prepared to lead a group that puts actionable plans, not finger-pointing, at the forefront.''
 A statement released Wednesday by the United States Olympic Committee noted that Streeter took over during the worst economy in 50 years and said the organization reduced expenses by 17 percent. Those savings were used to increase financing of winter athletes and sports for the Vancouver Games.
 Anita DeFrantz, a member of both the I.O.C. and the U.S.O.C. board, said Streeter was singled out. ''She was put into a situation, and people who didn't like the fact that she was selected started blasting her,'' DeFrantz said.
 If Streeter's replacement is named before March, he or she will become the third chief executive within a year. Matthew Van Houten, chairman of the U.S.O.C.'s athletes' advisory council and a former national team handball player, said stability had given an edge to other countries -- including Brazil -- within the Olympic movement. 
 ''We need to avoid starting from scratch because we don't need to be the new kid on the block introducing ourselves and rebuilding bonds and relationships,'' Van Houten said. ''We need someone who can jump in and say: 'Hey I know you. Let's work together some more.' It has to be someone who is humble and who also understands that the United States is not in a position of power anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephanie Streeter said she would leave the U.S.O.C. after the Paralympics next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ANDRIESKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (81%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (90%)

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (81%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (81%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (81%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



212 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IN SAN FRANCISCO; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Another Public Option

 BODY:
In response to nearly 60,000 uninsured city residents, San Francisco started a health care program in 2007 called Healthy San Francisco. Anne Underwood, a contributor to the Prescriptions blog, discussed the program's results so far with William Dow, a health economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley. Here is an excerpt of the longer conversation posted on the blog: 
 Q. To be clear, Healthy San Francisco isn't insurance per se.
 A. The city is careful not to call it health insurance. It provides access only to health care within San Francisco and only at a specified set of providers, mostly safety net providers. If you get sick outside the city, you're in trouble. 
 Q. Does it cover anyone who's uninsured?
 A. It started by covering only those under the poverty line. Now that's been extended to 500 percent of the poverty level, which qualifies the vast majority of uninsured individuals in the city.
 Q. You've noted that the city's mandate that employers provide health coverage, passed at the same time as Healthy San Francisco, was controversial.
 A. Opponents like the Golden Gate Restaurant Association said that employers would lay off workers if it went into effect. We've done analyses of employment in San Francisco, and we don't find any evidence that employment is going down. The dire predictions don't seem to be borne out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



213 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Let Congress Go Without Insurance

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Let me offer a modest proposal: If Congress fails to pass comprehensive health reform this year, its members should surrender health insurance in proportion with the American population that is uninsured.
 It may be that the lulling effect of having very fine health insurance leaves members of Congress insensitive to the dysfunction of our existing insurance system. So what better way to attune our leaders to the needs of their constituents than to put them in the same position?
 About 15 percent of Americans have no health insurance, according to the Census Bureau. Another 8 percent are underinsured, according to the Commonwealth Fund, a health policy research group. So I propose that if health reform fails this year, 15 percent of members of Congress, along with their families, randomly lose all health insurance and another 8 percent receive inadequate coverage. 
 Congressional critics of President Obama's efforts to achieve health reform worry that universal coverage will be expensive, while their priority is to curb social spending. So here's their chance to save government dollars in keeping with their own priorities. 
 Those same critics sometimes argue that universal coverage needn't be a top priority because anybody can get coverage at the emergency room. Let them try that with their kids.
 Some members also worry that a public option (an effective way to bring competition to the insurance market) would compete unfairly with private companies and amount to a step toward socialism. If they object so passionately to ''socialized health,'' why don't they block their 911 service to socialized police and fire services, disconnect themselves from socialized sewers and avoid socialized interstate highways?
 I wouldn't wish the trauma of losing health insurance on anyone, but our politicians' failure to assure health care for all citizens is such a longstanding and grievous breach of their responsibility that they deserve it. In January 1917, Progressive Magazine wrote: ''At present the United States has the unenviable distinction of being the only great industrial nation without universal health insurance.'' More than 90 years later, we still have that distinction.
 Theodore Roosevelt campaigned for national health insurance in 1912. Richard Nixon tried for universal coverage in 1974. Yet, even now, nearly half of Congress is vigorously opposed to such a plan.
 Health care has often been debated as a technical or economic issue. That has been a mistake, I believe. At root, universal health care is not an economic or technical question but a moral one. 
 We accept that life is unfair, that some people will live in cramped apartments and others in sprawling mansions. But our existing insurance system is not simply inequitable but also lethal: a very recent, peer-reviewed article in the American Journal of Public Health finds that nearly 45,000 uninsured people die annually as a consequence of not having insurance. That's one needless death every 12 minutes.
 When nearly 3,000 people were killed on 9/11, we began wars and were willing to devote more than $1 trillion in additional expenses. Yet about the same number of Americans die from our failed insurance system every three weeks.
 The obstacle isn't so much money as priorities. America made it a priority to provide tax breaks, largely to the wealthy, in the Bush years, at a 10-year cost including interest of $2.4 trillion. Allocating less than half that much to assure equal access to health care isn't deemed an equal priority.
 The plan emerging in the Senate is no panacea. America needs to promote exercise and discourage sugary drinks to hold down the rise in obesity, diabetes and medical bills. We need more competition among insurance companies. And conservatives are right to call for tort reform to reduce the costs of malpractice insurance and defensive medicine.
 But those steps are not a substitute for guaranteed health coverage for all Americans. And if health reform fails this year, then hopes for universal coverage will recede again. There was a lag of 19 years after the Nixon plan before another serious try, and a 16-year lag after the Clinton effort of 1993. Another 16-year delay would be accompanied by more than 700,000 unnecessary deaths. That's more Americans than died in World War I, World War II, Korea, Vietnam and Iraq combined.
 The collapse of health reform would be a political and policy failure, but it would also be a profound moral failure. Periodically, there are political questions that are fundamentally moral, including slavery in the 19th century and civil rights battles in the 1950s and '60s. In the same way, allowing tens of thousands of Americans to die each year because they are uninsured is not simply unwise and unfortunate. It is also wrong -- a moral blot on a great nation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE (73%); CENSUS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



214 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ROOMS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Resting Place for Detritus of Commuting

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
Among those questions that will always haunt New Yorkers -- When will the Knicks win? Why is Page Six actually on Page 8? Where does Donald Trump get his hair done? -- one of the most persistent is: What, in point of fact, do the thousands of commuters who arrive each day for work or recreation truly contribute to the city?
 Economists will most likely mention relative consumption values or commercial productivity. From sociologists, you are apt to hear strong truths about ''diversified demographics.'' But for those of a more tangible bent, the fastest way to find an answer is simply to visit the Long Island Rail Road's Lost and Found, at Pennsylvania Station, since that's a central storehouse for what commuters to the city actually leave behind. 
 ''If they carry it, we find it,'' said Casey Arasa, the station's terminal manager, who admits to being something of a commuterological sleuth. ''It's actually a strange office. You get to take a look at all the different societal things that are going on.''
 For instance, he suggested, judging by the number of lost karate gis, interest in the martial arts and being properly uniformed for them is booming in the suburbs. Yoga, too -- at least according to all the dropped mats -- remains quite popular. But trend spotting gets more difficult when the items are bizarre ones, and there are certainly plenty of those. 
 One day last month, the lost and found contained: a surfboard, several boogie boards, a Louisville Slugger baseball bat, a set of dentures, a stroller (without the baby), a battered white commodore's cap and -- Mr. Arasa's favorite -- a pair of metal crutches, leading one to envision a poor sprain-kneed commuter hobbling toward the 6:15 to Hicksville.
 All told, the lost and found collects more than 10,000 items a year (with a 50 percent return rate) and stores them for as long as 40 months on numerous cluttered shelves in a dingy warehouse space that is just around the corner from the men's room. Lost cellphones are kept in plastic bins, according to their model (and with their ringers blissfully off). Cash, of course, is stored separately, and the fact that $19,892 has been returned so far this year suggests that people probably aren't as grasping as you thought.
 The biggest lessons of the lost and found appear to be: a) suburban women have a hard time keeping hold of their purses, and b) Long Islanders are waterproof, since why else would they leave behind so many nice umbrellas? Sub-lessons might include the fact that many commuters are technophobes (there are currently more than 60 laptops in the lost and found) and that, judging by how many Touristers are missing, a good piece of luggage just isn't as valuable as it used to be. 
 Another thing you may not know is that the framed print of, say, the East River bridges that you accidentally left behind last year on the morning train to Babylon now hangs on the wall of the lost and found, which is furnished by commuters' dropped objects. There is even a modest lending library of lost books that indicate the Long Island mindset: ''Be a Real Estate Millionaire,''''Gross Anatomy,''''Blue Highways,'' by William Least Heat Moon and Joe Torre's inside-the-clubhouse tell-all.
 Of course, it's hard to know if the objects in the lost and found reflect attractiveness or neglect. After all, what gets lost more often? The things that people hold most dear and, therefore, carry frequently? Or those they tote around casually and, therefore, tend to forget?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some of the more than 10,000 items a year that pass through the lost and found department at Penn Station.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (77%); MARTIAL ARTS (76%); SURFING (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



215 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Democrats May Extend Tax Credit For Homes

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Democratic Congressional leaders are working with the White House to extend an expiring $8,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers, and aides said Wednesday that they were considering making it available to current homeowners who purchase a new residence.
 Extending and possibly expanding the popular home-buyers credit, which is due to expire after November, is high among options for further stimulating the economy and creating jobs, Congressional aides said, though a White House official said it was only briefly mentioned on Wednesday in an Oval Office meeting between President Obama, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader. 
 The Democratic leaders met with the president to discuss a broad range of options to combat persistent high unemployment, officials say. The existing credit for first-time home buyers will expire at the end of next month if not extended, and two other components of the economic safety net -- unemployment compensation and health care benefits for those who have been out of work for long periods -- will expire at the end of the year. 
 Besides the likelihood of extending those measures, which were part of the $787 billion stimulus law earlier this year, the president and Congress were also weighing additional steps, given projections that jobs will continue to be lost into the middle of next year despite signs of economic recovery, possibly driving the unemployment rate above 10 percent. But they insist that any package will not add up to a second stimulus package, a prospect that would invite Republicans' attacks on the effectiveness of the first. 
 Keeping the home-buyers credit and broadening it has been a priority for real estate agents and the home builders lobbies, and for Mr. Reid, who faces a tough re-election race next year in a state that has been among the hardest hit by the housing crisis since mid-2007. In a statement after the White House meeting, Mr. Reid said the government should ''continue efforts to strengthen the housing market by extending the home-buyer tax credit.''
 By the time it is scheduled to expire, for home purchases that close before Dec. 1, the home-buyers credit will be responsible for nearly 400,000 sales of new and existing homes, out of total sales of 1.4 million, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. That is roughly in line with estimates from the National Association of Realtors.
 Mr. Zandi, who formerly advised Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and is now consulted by Democrats in the administration and in Congress, has advocated extending the credit through next August and making it available to all home buyers. 
 Allowing the credit to expire this year would result in a decline in sales of homes that are not facing foreclosure just as sales of foreclosed homes are expected to pick up, Mr. Zandi said in an interview, ''putting further downward pressure on house prices.''
 ''The economic recovery will not evolve into a self-sustaining economic expansion and risks unraveling back into recession until house prices stop falling,'' he added. 
 But the tax break is not cheap. Congressional analysts put the cost in lost tax revenues at about $1 billion a month. Mr. Zandi said that expanding the availability of the credit to more home buyers through August would cost perhaps $30 billion. While some in the housing industry have proposed nearly doubling the credit to $15,000, Mr. Zandi said $8,000 ''seems to have been a sufficiently powerful incentive.''
 While Democrats in Congress and the White House emphasize that no decisions have been made about the home buyers credit or any other measures, two officials said that the cost of extending the credit could be covered by redirecting money in the two-year $787 billion stimulus package that was scheduled to be spent after this year.
 The current credit is limited to buyers who earn up to $75,000 a year, or couples who make $150,000; in gradually smaller amounts the credit is available to individuals with income from $75,000 to $95,000 and to couples making from $150,000 to $170,000. While the housing industry supports lifting the income caps so that even wealthy home buyers are eligible, White House and Congressional aides say that is not under discussion.
 On Thursday, the House is expected to pass legislation from Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, to extend the credit through 2010 for people who have been out of the country this year in the military or intelligence or foreign services.
 Mr. Reid is a co-sponsor of a bipartisan Senate bill that would extend the existing credit for six months, through May.
 The home-buyers credit has come in for criticism similar to that lodged against another popular stimulus program, the ''Cash for Clunkers'' subsidy that went to people who traded in vehicles for more fuel-efficient models -- that the credit persuades people to act faster on purchases, depressing activity later. 
 Industry officials counter that expediting home sales helps to stabilize home values now, which is essential for sustaining economic growth. And unlike car sales, home sales have a multiplier effect that spurs job-creating growth throughout the economy. Lawrence Yun, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors, said each house sale on average yielded $63,000 spent on goods and services, like moving vans and furniture. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



216 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Obama Choice for Labor Post Advances But Then Meets a G.O.P. Roadblock

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The New York State labor commissioner, President Obama's nominee to be the Labor Department's top enforcement official, won approval from a Senate committee Wednesday but immediately encountered a roadblock when the committee's senior Republican said he would put a ''hold'' on the nomination.
 Such action by a senator can significantly delay a confirmation vote in the full chamber, by requiring 60 votes there for the nomination to be taken up. 
 The nominee, M. Patricia Smith, who would fill the post of Labor Department solicitor, has run into strong Republican opposition in Washington despite enthusiastic support from business leaders in her home state. Republican members of the Senate committee, on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, point to inaccurate statements she made at her confirmation hearing in May. Some have also objected to the close ties between New York unions and Ms. Smith, a labor advocate for more than three decades who would be the department's No. 3 official.
 Wednesday's committee vote to approve the nomination was 13 to 10, along party lines. The intention to place a hold was then promptly announced by the ranking Republican, Senator Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming.
 Mr. Enzi first urged Mr. Obama to withdraw the nomination in August, complaining of the inaccuracies in Ms. Smith's testimony concerning New York Wage Watch, a program created by her department in which labor unions and groups advocating on behalf of low-wage immigrants work with state officials to uncover wage and hour violations.
 At one point in her confirmation hearing, Ms. Smith said she had not had discussions about expanding Wage Watch. At another, she said the idea for Wage Watch had been developed within her department, before outsiders were approached about the program.
 Ms. Smith, who declined to be interviewed for this article, has acknowledged since the hearing that she ''misspoke.'' In saying she had not discussed the program's expansion, she had intended to say only that she had not authorized the expansion, her Democratic defenders say. And, they say, as for her testifying that the idea for the program originated within the department, she had not known that one of her deputies had consulted with a labor group about it.
 ''It is clear that these were inadvertent errors, not an attempt to mislead the committee,'' the panel's Democratic staff wrote in an internal paper circulated in recent days. ''There is no reason for Smith to hide anything from the committee about this program, because nothing improper occurred.''
 But Mr. Enzi stepped up his opposition on Monday, sending a letter signed by all the committee's Republicans that urged the chairman, Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, not to move forward with the nomination.
 Since the hearing, ''subsequent statements by Ms. Smith intended to clarify the discrepancies do not alleviate our concerns about her candor and raise additional concerns about her ability to manage the solicitor's office,'' the Republicans wrote. ''We regret that in light of Ms. Smith's statements before Congress, we lack confidence in her ability to serve as solicitor of Labor.''
 Mr. Harkin replied that the accusations were ''clearly an effort to try to delay the confirmation of the government's top advocate for our nation's workers.''
 In his letter to Mr. Obama in August, Mr. Enzi said that in creating Wage Watch, Ms. Smith had often ignored the concerns of small-business owners. And several Republicans have complained that two unions involved in Wage Watch hoped to use it to organize low-wage workers.
 But this summer Kenneth Adams, president of the Business Council of New York State, the state's leading business group, wrote to the committee in support of Ms. Smith, saying that she had been ''thorough, fair and judicious'' in enforcing labor laws and that her ''communication with us'' had been ''open, honest, candid and frequent.''
 Some Democrats maintain that the Republicans are delaying confirmation in retaliation for the Democrats' delay on President George W. Bush's nominee for Labor Department solicitor in 2001. Mr. Bush was ultimately able to install that nominee, Eugene Scalia, son of Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court, by appointing him while Congress was in recess.
 Republicans deny any effort at retaliation. 
 Many worker advocates are impatient for Ms. Smith to be confirmed, saying wage violations are widespread nationally. One such advocate, Chris Owens, executive director of the National Employment Law Project, noted that Mr. Obama had been president for nearly nine months and still did not have the department's top enforcement officials in place.
 Like Ms. Smith, Lorelei Boylan, the president's nominee to head the department's wage and hour division, continues to await confirmation. Ms. Boylan is currently director of New York State's wage and hour division.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: M. Patricia Smith announcing unemployment figures for New York State in July.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA EBELHAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RANKINGS (76%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MIKE ENZI (77%); TOM HARKIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



217 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Thompson Assails Mayor's Record in Managing City Finances

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Seeking to undercut his rival's main rationale for a third term, the Democratic candidate for mayor, William C. Thompson Jr., issued a blistering attack Wednesday on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's economic record, arguing that he has created many low-paying jobs, crippled small businesses with fees, and relied on megadevelopments that eat up taxpayer subsidies. 
 He accused the mayor, a former media mogul, of turning New York City into ''a wonderland for Wall Street and a dreamland for developers.'' 
 His speech, delivered in Staten Island, far from the gilded corridors of Manhattan, took direct aim at Mr. Bloomberg's justification for rewriting the term limits law last fall: that he is uniquely skilled to manage the city's finances in a time of economic crisis. 
 ''Sadly,'' Mr. Thompson said, ''this is an eight-year-old story of mismanagement.''
 Mr. Thompson, who as the city comptroller is New York's chief financial watchdog, laid out a series of policy proposals that he said would begin to reverse the economic disparities that have deepened under Mr. Bloomberg. 
 He called for the creation of retail retention zones to protect small businesses threatened by national chains, with incentives offered to landlords in return for low rents; a moratorium on the rezoning of 1,800 acres of manufacturing space, to promote the expansion of existing companies; and the creation of a new mayoral office to coordinate work force development programs throughout the city. He vowed to build a ''post-boom economy that produces good, living-wage jobs and restores hope and real opportunity for our middle class.''
 But he did not explain how he would pay for any of his plans at a time when the city faces a $5 billion deficit -- or how he would replace revenues that would be lost under his proposal.
 He demanded, for instance, that the city stop blanketing small businesses with tickets, which he described as ''harassment.'' Yet higher ticket collections under Mr. Bloomberg have provided the city with tens of millions of dollars to finance a range of services.
 Two of his tax reform proposals would cost $40 million a year, according to documents provided by the campaign. A spokesman for the campaign, Mike Murphy, said Mr. Thompson's proposals would cost under $50 million and would be largely paid for through cost savings and higher tax revenues generated by the plan.
 Many of Mr. Thompson's proposals entail little cost. To encourage the growth of small businesses, he proposes allowing freelancers to work from home, which is generally illegal now under zoning laws, even though the practice is widespread. 
 And he calls for legislation that would expand the jurisdiction of small claims courts from $6,000 to $25,000, to allow small companies to more easily recover money from nonpaying clients. 
 Mr. Thompson spoke to members of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce at the Richmond County Country Club, a peculiar choice for a speech intended to channel populist anger over the mayor's economic policies. The club is located in the wealthy Todt Hill neighborhood, where driveways are crowded with Mercedes and Jaguars. For lunch, guests dined on a salad of cucumber, walnuts and cranberries. 
 Much of the speech was devoted to a withering dissection of Mr. Bloomberg's handling of city finances since 2002. 
 Mr. Thompson portrayed the mayor as a protector of the rich, who has pursued top-down economic development and taken a haphazard approach to job creation. He called the city's $1 billion work force training system ''uncoordinated and often at odds with itself.'' He said the city has ''operated without a comprehensive economic plan.''
 And criticizing the mayor's pursuit of splashy developments, he said: ''Enormous staff resources and time were wasted planning a West Side Jets Stadium that was never built. Huge subsidies went to the New York Yankees for a stadium project with little local economic impact.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's camp belittled the policy speech and offered a 13-page, point-by-point rebuttal. It said the mayor had ''transformed'' the city's work force development program, placing 11,300 people in jobs in his first term and 71,000 in his second. 
 Addressing Mr. Thompson's statements about manufacturing space, it said the mayor had created or saved 15,000 manufacturing jobs since 2002. And it unearthed statements from Mr. Thompson's deputy in the comptroller's office that seemed to praise higher revenues from tickets and fees. 
 A Bloomberg campaign spokeswoman, Jill Hazelbaker, said in a statement that Mr. Thompson has ''failed to offer a credible plan for how to create jobs and protect middle-class New Yorkers. She added, ''Today's proposal is long on promises Thompson can't deliver, beginning with how he plans to pay for it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. in Manhattan last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ZONING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIVING WAGE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); TAX LAW (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); SMALL CLAIMS COURTS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



218 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Woman of 1,000 Faces Considers the Body

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Even if you have already had your fill of heated debate about the crisis in American health care -- informed, opinionated or just plain batty -- do not go in fear of ''Let Me Down Easy,'' the new solo show from Anna Deavere Smith, which opened Wednesday night at the Second Stage Theater. The buzz words that have been filling the airwaves like swarms of gnats (''public option,'' ''death panels'') make no appearances in this engrossing collection of testimonials about life, death and the care of the ailing body. 
 True, Ms. Smith has collected some input on the state of the current system. She includes contributions from a rodeo bull rider with a cynical view of doctors and a medical school dean who argues that prime consideration must be given to end-of-life care. (Yep, it's that freighted grandma issue.) But just as often she seeks answers to more open-ended questions about the power of the human body, its susceptibility to disease, and the divide between spirit and flesh that poses mysteries no one can really elucidate. 
 Unlike Ms. Smith's acclaimed previous works, about the riots in Crown Heights, Brooklyn (''Fires in the Mirror'') and the racial unrest in Los Angeles after the Rodney King verdict (''Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992''), her new show is not tightly focused on a historical event. 
 Actually it is not particularly focused at all, though it is continually engaging. Instead of devising an organized primer on issues pertaining to health care in America, Ms. Smith has created a loosely framed but vivid compendium of life experienced at its extremes, drawn about equally from the suffering and the ministering sides of the story.
 The first third of its 95-minute running time is largely taken up with attitudes toward the human body, and particularly the dedication of athletes who push against its limits. As always in her shows, Ms. Smith draws her texts verbatim from interviews she conducted herself, including pauses, repetitions, digressions and the occasional interruption for a cup of coffee or a ringing phone -- details that add to the verisimilitude of the testimony. 
 The seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong speaks of his fight against cancer and how his natural competitiveness primed him for the battle: ''The motivation is failure, 'cause failure's death.'' Then he turned around and used this souped-up ambition to return to cycling with more spirit than before: ''Not that I thought I was gonna die if I lost the tour. But I certainly, I didn't, I just didn't want to face this, this, this demon called failure.'' 
 The bull rider, Brent Williams, describes in gory detail the various predations he has subjected his body to, and how the doctors stitched him back up. He had his nose straightened after a fall without anesthetic so he could ride again that night. The heavyweight champion Michael Bentt recalls his brutal last bout, which put him in a coma for four days.
 As the sports columnist Sally Jenkins notes, we prize athletes for their prowess and as symbols of the human ability to transcend life's natural limits. The downside to this celebration of the superhuman is a denigration of the merely human. 
 In a rambling but funny monologue, the writer and activist Eve Ensler deplores the cultural pressure on women to simulate agelessness. ''I think in this culture people don't really die,'' she cracks. ''We're all immortal here. We are all forever young here.''
 As you may have gathered, Ms. Smith's pool of participants is a little celebrity-centric. But as the show moves into more specific considerations of the state of health care, and later into meditations on death and disease, the balance tips in favor of nonboldfaced names. 
 Unnecessarily, we hear a breezy Lauren Hutton talking about how the Revlon chief Charles Revson opened doors to the best doctors in the city for her. More potently moving are the recollections of a physician working at a public hospital in New Orleans during the horrific aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Her sorrowing description of the government's failure to evacuate the suffering poor offers stark proof of the economic disparities endemic to the current system. Another funny-sad example of inequity comes courtesy of a patient at Yale-New Haven Hospital whose charts disappear -- like so many others, a resident shruggingly notes -- until it is discovered that she is the chairwoman of the medical school. 
 Under the direction of Leonard Foglia, Ms. Smith moves briskly among these personalities on a handsome circular set ringed by large mirrors, designed by Riccardo Hernandez. Ann Hould-Ward conceived the simple costumes that Ms. Smith employs to signal her transformations.
 For the most part these are unnecessary. Ms. Smith is not the kind of performer who wholly disappears into the people she is portraying; she is too forceful a presence for that. Instead she channels their voices through her own, using the specifics of speech patterns more than any fancy vocal gymnastics to let us hear each as an individual. 
 The final segment of the show, concentrating on the struggle against fatal illnesses and the reality of death, is naturally the darkest and the most affecting. An expert in palliative care speaks of how we cope with dying much as we have faced life's lesser calamities. ''If we were angry, we'll probably be angry,'' he notes. ''If we denied the whole thing, we probably will deny the whole thing.'' 
 Proving the point, the former Texas governor Ann Richards remains a blunt-spoken optimist even as cancer comes to call. Also fighting cancer, the film critic Joel Siegel retains his humor and his stubborn nonbelief in a sympathetically intervening God. ''I do not believe in a God who would in any way interact between me and my disease,'' he says. ''I'm very Jewish.'' (Both Ms. Richards and Mr. Siegel eventually lost their battles.)
 Intentionally or not, ''Let Me Down Easy'' seems to have several endings. Mr. Siegel could have sent us out on a mordantly funny note. The minister at the Memorial Church of Harvard, offering his views on the importance of accepting the fact of death (''Cherish the moment''), also seems a natural climax. His monologue is followed by a still more moving one from the director of an orphanage in South Africa, recalling the words she used to comfort an adolescent girl dying of AIDS.
 And yet this heartbreaker is not the last word either. It almost seems Ms. Smith does not want to stop for death -- like Emily Dickinson, and for that matter the rest of us.
 LET ME DOWN EASY
 A solo show conceived, written and performed by Anna Deavere Smith; directed by Leonard Foglia; sets by Riccardo Hernandez; costumes by Ann Hould-Ward; lighting by Jules Fisher and Peggy Eisenhauer; sound by Ryan Rumery; dialect coach, Amy Stoller; movement coach, Elizabeth Roxas-Dobrish; projection design by Zak Borovay; associate artistic director, Christopher Burney. Presented by the Second Stage Theater, Carole Rothman, artistic director. At the Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton; (212) 246-4422. Through Nov. 8. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Let Me Down Easy,: with Anna Deavere Smith, at the Second Stage Theater.(pg. C1)
 Anna Deavere Smith in her one-woman play, ''Let Me Down Easy,'' a collection of testimonials about the body and health care.(pg. C6) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); CANCER (74%); DEATH & DYING (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); RODEOS (69%); RIOTS (65%); INTERVIEWS (65%); CYCLING (60%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Let Me Down Easy (Play)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



219 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: America's Quest to Collect Taxes Abroad

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GOLDFARB and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
President Obama would like to change America's reputation for taking a unilateral approach to foreign affairs. But imperialistic tendencies are creeping in, at least in one area: taxation. 
 The United States is already unusual in taxing its citizens on their worldwide income, even if they live or work elsewhere. Tax treaties and complex rules help reduce the cash burden -- the same income is not supposed to be taxed twice -- but compliance is often a nightmare. 
 Now the government is trying to increase tax revenue from its globe-trotting citizenry. The government is also trying hard to get more from global companies based in the United States, while Japan and Britain are going in the opposite direction. And the United States is asking other nations to help it chase tax dodgers. 
 In the face of all this pressure, some Americans abroad might want to shake off the Internal Revenue Service by surrendering their citizenship. But a new tax on doing that can be costly for high earners, and doesn't even provide a full escape: some assets and subsequent gifts can still be taxed. Not even dying far from home is enough to outrun the taxman. Overseas inheritors of United States securities can be hit with tax, too. 
 The United States claims the moral high ground on taxes. But to some foreigners the combination of a crusade against foreign tax havens and the insistence that overseas companies help with American tax collection shows ''breathtaking moral duplicity.'' Those were the words of Wegelin & Company, a Swiss private bank, as it pulled out of the United States. 
 Not everyone would go that far. But Julius Baer, another Swiss bank, said it could live without American clients, and Lloyds Banking Group in Britain has started ditching some as well. 
 And some overseas are highlighting lax taxes in the United States itself. The Brazilian government says Delaware and Wyoming are tax havens because of their low costs and even lower disclosure requirements. Luxembourg's prime minister has joined in, calling for the two states to be put on the tax blacklist of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
 Reining In Stimulus
 Japan's new experiment to support its economy is an anti-stimulus. The drive by the new prime minister, Yukio Hatoyama, to cut 2.5 trillion yen ($28 billion) of wasteful stimulus fulfills an election pledge and relieves some strain on Japan's budget deficit and borrowing needs. The new approach is worth watching. 
 While stimulus spending has been adopted by most of the world's richer countries -- including Japan, until now -- its effect has been uneven. In China and Australia, where government budgets were in surplus until the downturn, it has allowed economic growth to resume almost without pausing. In Britain and the United States, where budgets were substantially in deficit in 2007 and 2008, its effect has been much less clear. Unemployment, for instance, has continued to rise. 
 Part of the reason is that governments do not create wealth, so money for any fiscal stimulus must be borrowed. That's much riskier, economically speaking, if the budget is already in deficit and public debt high before a recession begins. 
 So it was in Japan, where public debt has been forecast by the International Monetary Fund to reach 217 percent of gross domestic product by the end of this year. The administration of the previous leader, Taro Aso, put in place a stimulus package worth some 4 percent of G.D.P. That raised investor worries about the government's ability to service its debt and directed money to rural infrastructure projects that were politically rather than economically desirable. 
 Mr. Hatoyama has so far delivered on his promises of discipline, including bringing in the fiscally conservative Hirohisa Fujii as finance minister. 
 The early data is encouraging: the quarterly Tankan survey showed a jump in business sentiment in September, and unemployment fell in August -- when Mr. Hatoyama's election was already certain -- rather than rising as it did in Britain and the United States. 
 With its declining population, Japan needs its G.D.P. to grow at only 2 to 3 percent a year for the country to enjoy brisk recovery on a per-capita basis. If Mr. Hatoyama and Mr. Fujii manage to deliver that, anti-stimulus could catch on. JEFFREY GOLDFARB and MARTIN HUTCHINSON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hirohisa Fujii, the finance minister, is part of Japan's new fiscal conservatism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); TAX TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%); YUKIO HATOYAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



220 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Book Sales Are Down, Despite Push

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
After strong starts and huge marketing campaigns, some of the biggest books of the fall season -- on which the struggling bookselling industry has pinned much of its hopes -- are losing a little steam.
 ''The Lost Symbol,''Dan Brown's highly anticipated follow-up to ''The Da Vinci Code,'' broke sales records on its first day and in its first week of release last month, selling nearly two million copies in the United States, Canada and Britain, according to the publisher. But according to Nielsen BookScan, which tracks about 70 percent of retail sales in the United States, the number of copies the book sold last week fell by 47 percent, to 214,000 from 401,000.
 ''True Compass,'' Senator Edward M. Kennedy's memoir, sold 39,000 copies last week, down 43 percent from the previous week's tally of 69,000. 
 And over all, according to BookScan, book sales were down about 4 percent compared with the same week last year, suggesting that neither of those titles or any of the other big fall books from heavyweights like Mitch Albom, Pat Conroy, E. L. Doctorow and Audrey Niffenegger were helping booksellers to overcome the sludgy economy.
 ''They are all great books, but they are all hardcover books,'' said Ellen Archer, publisher of Hyperion, a unit of Disney that just released Mr. Albom's ''Have a Little Faith.'' ''How many hardcover purchases can one person make given these difficult times? Are they going to choose one of their nonfiction reads and one great novel and stop and wait for the paperbacks? Probably.''
 Both Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, which released ''The Lost Symbol,'' and Twelve, the imprint of Grand Central Publishing Group that put out ''True Compass,'' said they were happy with the results so far and expected strong holiday sales. 
 ''We are thrilled with the performance of the book,'' Suzanne Herz, a spokeswoman for Knopf Doubleday, said in an e-mail message. ''With such pent-up demand for a new novel by Dan Brown, it was not unexpected to see a decline in sales after the first week. It is the nature of the blockbuster book.''
 Booksellers said other thrillers by name-brand authors had a similar trajectory. '' 'The Da Vinci Code' built by word of mouth, and this one came out of the gates really strong,'' said Kathryn Popoff, vice president of the trade division at Borders Group, referring to ''The Lost Symbol.'' ''For us it's falling off as we projected.'' 
 Gerry Donaghy, new book purchasing supervisor at Powell's Books in Portland, Ore., said he and his co-workers wondered, ''How many of the fall books are people holding off buying themselves and hoping to get them as gifts?'' He added, ''Maybe that's just optimism.''
 Laurence J. Kirshbaum, a literary agent and former publishing executive, said the rule of thumb in the industry was to take sales figures from September and October and multiply them by three or four for holiday shopping in November and December. 
 ''A lot of people buy books because they don't know Uncle Harry's shirt size, so at the last minute it's either books or candy,'' he said. ''There's no question that the business is in a lull right now, but I do think it's a little early because the real Christmas business is still a month, maybe six weeks away.''
 But other publishing insiders suggested that because Knopf Doubleday had printed five million copies of ''The Lost Symbol'' and gone back to press for 600,000 more after the first day of sales, book sales would have to reverse dramatically for the title to meet the expectations of the publishing house. And with sales of ''True Compass'' dwindling, some within the industry wondered how Twelve would recoup the advance of more than $8 million it paid for the memoir.
 Cary Goldstein, a spokesman for Twelve, said that sales of ''True Compass'' were meeting the publisher's calculations and that it would cover some of the advance with sales of the rights to publish the book in Britain, Sweden, the Netherlands, Korea, China and other countries. 
 ''The book has exceeded sales targets at all of our major accounts,'' Mr. Goldstein added. ''We expect to net at least one million copies.''
 Mitchell Kaplan, owner of Books & Books, a chain of independent stores in South Florida and the Cayman Islands, said Senator Kennedy's memoir was likely to appeal to gift-buying customers. But he said the biggest successes were often books from unknown authors that built slowly by word of mouth. 
 He pointed to ''The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society'' by Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrows, which has stormed through book clubs and has sold 421,000 copies in hardcover and 583,000 in paperback. Mr. Kaplan, together with the producer Paula Mazur, has optioned the movie rights.
 Other big titles showed mixed results. ''Her Fearful Symmetry,'' the second novel by Ms. Niffenegger, author of the best-selling ''Time Traveler's Wife,'' sold just 23,000 copies in its first week, according to BookScan. Publishing insiders suggested that was a disappointment given that Scribner, the unit of Simon & Schuster that published the book, paid Ms. Niffenegger close to $5 million for it.
 ''We all expect miracles, and some miracles take a little while,'' said Susan Moldow, publisher of Scribner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sales of Dan Brown's new thriller have fallen significantly.(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK SALES (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); BRANDING (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%)

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (84%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (53%); POWELL'S BOOKS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (84%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (84%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (78%); MITCH ALBOM (58%); TED KENNEDY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



221 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Marking 8 Years of the Afghan War

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama Rules Out Large Reduction in Afghan Force'' (front page, Oct. 7): Senator John McCain warns against any middle ground and says, ''Half measures is what I worry about.'' Citing previous experience in Iraq, he adds, they ''lead to failure over time and an erosion of American public support.''
 We now have 68,000 troops in Afghanistan and have been there for eight years. Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal's request would take the number over 100,000. Is that a full measure? That's a question that is never answered. 
 If we're in a war that must be won, why do we approach it, as we did so disastrously in Iraq, with piecemeal measures? 
 Let the generals and the Pentagon tell us what winning really means and how many troops it will take to achieve that victory. Then, and only then, can the American public make a true decision. We can go for costly long-term care or we can do immediate emergency surgery to save the patient's life.
 Richard L. Gilbert Bronx, Oct. 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Top U.S. Commander in Afghanistan Rejects Scaling Down Military Objectives'' (news article, Oct. 2):
 You report that Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal has again spoken out, this time in London, against the possible modification of our commitment in Afghanistan. In his request for 40,000 more troops, the general rejects any suggestion that our efforts be more targeted at Al Qaeda, as opposed to the larger goal of defeating the Taliban.
 What's going on here? Why is an American general, no matter how honorable and brilliant, allowed to advocate national policy outside the walls of the White House?
 Yes, it's a free country, but there's only one commander in chief, and he should be able to keep his options open without undue pressure from generals in the field.
 Alan Goldfarb Fremont, Calif., Oct. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Surgical Strikes Shape Afghanistan Debate'' (news article, Oct. 6):
 My family has not gone to bed feeling as safe as we now do in this country in the eight years since 9/11, and President Obama has already made the country a safer place than President George W. Bush did after fighting two bloody and costly wars.
 Let these wars not become President Obama's. Then this new presidency, with its promise of bold change, will have been all for nothing, and probably without a remotely similar potential for a safe America in a peaceable world for decades.
 We won't indefinitely continue to feel safer, and be seen even more and more as a friend of the world's Islamic street, unless the president continues to stay the course and sound even more loud and clear rapprochement.
 James Adler Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Instead of being mired in the mess of a military conflict in Afghanistan -- fighting warlords, the Taliban and various other hostile groups, killing more Americans and allied associates -- let's do what the Taliban cannot do. Let's develop a type of Marshall Plan -- build roads, schools and clinics and provide family planning services. Create a national infrastructure.
 In fact, we could gain access to all of the prison data in the United States, and anyone who had the necessary skills could be used to help reconstruct the country. I am tired of seeing our young people killed. Let's do something constructive for a change.
 Rita K. Miller Philadelphia, Oct. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''The Distance Between 'We Must' and 'We Can' '' (Week in Review, Oct. 4) and ''10 Steps to Victory in Afghanistan'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 4) reflect the reckless assumption that because Osama bin Laden struck at America from Afghanistan, we will be able to make a fiercely conservative tribal people trade their ways for ours, or cow them into submission. Nothing in their history or ours suggests that either is possible. 
 Nothing in Afghanistan is fundamentally different from our misadventures in Lebanon and Somalia. Forty years after Vietnam, it seems as if the United States still cannot recognize an indomitable adversary or a fight we won't win. 
 David Knapp Chonburi, Thailand, Oct. 6, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Beijing's Afghan Gamble'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 7):
 Robert D. Kaplan's article about China's involvement in Afghanistan, and his argument that continuing the United States military presence there will allow the Chinese to benefit over the long run, makes some interesting points. It might be possible to look at the situation in some other ways as well. 
 While Mr. Kaplan seems to see the United States making things safer for Chinese investment and future profits, one might argue that China's engagement in Afghanistan, and the local economic development it is promoting, will over time reduce the appeal of the Taliban and reduce the threat that radical Islamic terrorism will find a receptive home in that country. 
 Poverty, corruption and social injustice are the real roots of the rage that drives the bombers. If the United States had spent a trillion dollars over the last eight years on bottom-up economic development across the Islamic world, our security situation both at home and internationally would be very different today.
 Kenneth J. Hammond Las Cruces, N.M., Oct. 7, 2009
 The writer is a professor of East Asian history at New Mexico State University.
 To the Editor:
 The suggestion by Robert D. Kaplan (Op-Ed, Oct. 7) that China ultimately wins no matter what the United States does in Afghanistan and Pakistan is sorely misguided. 
 China borders both countries, and the radicalization of Muslim populations in Central Asia, including the eight million Uighur population in Xinjiang Province in China, would greatly accelerate if the United States should fail in the region. 
 The recent violent protests by the Uighur Muslim population add further impetus for Beijing to work with the United States in ensuring that events in Afghanistan and Pakistan do not escalate into an internal threat to China's security.
 Edward Burke Madrid, Oct. 7, 2009
 The writer is a researcher at the Foundation for International Relations, or FRIDE.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FOGELSON-LUBLINER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TALIBAN (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); AL-QAEDA (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009



222 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Deal on Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Senate Democrats said they had reached a deal to extend unemployment insurance benefits to the nearly two million jobless workers across the country who are in danger of running out of assistance by the end of the year. The agreement would give an additional 14 weeks of benefits to jobless workers in all 50 states. Workers in states with an unemployment rate at 8.5 percent or higher would receive six weeks on top of that. Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, tried to bring the measure to a quick vote on the Senate floor, but Republicans objected, saying they needed more time to study the proposal and its costs and possibly offer amendments. The House last month approved legislation that gives 13 weeks of extended benefits, but only in those 27 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico that have unemployment rates of at least 8.5 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (68%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



223 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BACK TO BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: F.H.A. Problems Raising Concern Of Policy Makers

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
A year after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac teetered, industry executives and Washington policy makers are worrying that another government mortgage giant could be the next housing domino. 
 Problems at the Federal Housing Administration, which guarantees mortgages with low down payments, are becoming so acute that some experts warn the agency might need a federal bailout. 
 Running questions about the F.H.A.'s future -- underscored by interviews with policy makers, analysts and home buyers -- came to the fore on Thursday on Capitol Hill. In testimony before a House subcommittee, the F.H.A. commissioner, David H. Stevens, assured lawmakers that his agency would not need a bailout and that it was managing its risks. 
 But he acknowledged that some 20 percent of F.H.A. loans insured last year -- and as many as 24 percent of those from 2007 -- faced serious problems including foreclosure, offering a preview of a forthcoming audit of the agency's finances. 
 ''Let me simply state at the outset that based on current projections, absent any catastrophic home price decline, F.H.A. will not need to ask Congress and the American taxpayer for extraordinary assistance -- we will not need a bailout,'' Mr. Stevens said in his testimony. 
 But to its critics, the F.H.A. looks like another Fannie Mae. The hearings on Thursday came on the same day that the federal agency charged with overseeing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provided a somber assessment of those giants' health. In the year since the government stepped in to rescue them, the companies have taken $96 billion from the Treasury, and may need more.
 Since the bottom fell out of the mortgage market, the F.H.A. has assumed a crucial role in the nation's housing market. Created in 1934 to help lower-income and first-time buyers purchase homes, the agency now insures roughly 5.4 million single-family home mortgages, with a combined value of $675 billion.
 In addition, these loans are bundled into mortgage-backed securities and guaranteed through the Government National Mortgage Association, known as Ginnie Mae. That means the taxpayer is responsible for paying investors who own Ginnie Mae bonds when F.H.A.-backed mortgages hit trouble. 
 ''It appears destined for a taxpayer bailout in the next 24 to 36 months,'' Edward Pinto, a former Fannie Mae executive, said in testimony prepared for the hearing. Mr. Pinto, who was the chief credit officer from 1987 to 1989 for Fannie Mae, went further than most housing analysts and predicted that F.H.A. losses would more than wipe out the agency's $30 billion of cash reserves.
 The issue has polarized Congress. Republicans, who led efforts to rein in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac before those companies ran into trouble, are now seeking to bridle the F.H.A. Many Democrats insist the F.H.A. is playing a vital role in the housing market, which is only just starting to stabilize. 
 ''F.H.A. has stepped into the void left by the private market,'' Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat from California, said at the hearing. ''Let's be clear; without F.H.A., there would be no mortgage market right now.''
 That was the case for Bernadine Shimon. Like many Americans, Ms. Shimon has recently been through some rough times. She lost a house to foreclosure, declared bankruptcy, got divorced and is now a single mother, teaching high school English in a Denver suburb.
 She wanted a house but no lender would touch her. The Federal Housing Administration was more obliging. With the F.H.A. insuring her mortgage, Ms. Shimon was able to buy a $134,000 fixer-upper in August.
 ''The government gave me another chance,'' she said.
 The government is giving as many people as it possibly can the chance to buy a house or, if they are in financial difficulty, refinance it. The F.H.A. is insuring about 6,000 loans a day, four times the amount in 2006. Its portfolio is growing so fast that even F.H.A. backers express amazement. 
 For decades it was an article of faith that helping people of limited means like Ms. Shimon get a house was good for the new owner, good for the neighborhood and good for American capitalism. Then came the housing bust, which demonstrated that when lenders allowed people to buy houses they ultimately could not afford, it hurt the parties -- while putting the economy itself in a tailspin. 
 In the aftermath of the crash, there is wide divergence on how easy, or how hard, it should be to become a homeowner. Skittish lenders are asking for 20 percent down, which few prospective borrowers have to spare. As a result, private lending has dwindled.
 The government has stepped into the breach, facilitating loans with down payments as low as 3.5 percent and offering other incentives to stabilize the market. Real estate agents in some hard-hit areas say every single one of their clients is using the F.H.A. 
 ''They're counting their pennies, scraping up that 3.5 percent,'' Bonni Malone of Prudential Americana in Las Vegas said. ''Mostly they're buying foreclosed homes from banks, although I had one client who bought from a guy that was dying. It's turning around the market.''
 While the government's actions have helped avert full-scale economic disaster, there is growing concern that it might have doled out its favors with too generous a hand.
 Many of the loans the F.H.A. insured in 2007 and last year are now turning delinquent, agency officials acknowledge. The loans made in those two years are performing ''far worse'' than newer loans, dragging down the whole portfolio, Mr. Stevens of the F.H.A. said in an interview.
 The number of F.H.A. mortgage holders in default is 410,916, up 76 percent from a year ago, when 232,864 were in default, according to agency data.
 Despite the agency's attempt to outrun its fate by insuring ever-larger amounts of new loans to such borrowers as Ms. Shimon -- the current rate is over a billion dollars a day -- 7.77 percent of the portfolio is in default, up from 5.6 percent a year ago. 
 Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said in an interview that the defaults were, in essence, worth it.
 ''I don't think it's a bad thing that the bad loans occurred,'' he said. ''It was an effort to keep prices from falling too fast. That's a policy.'' 
 The troubled loans are nevertheless weighing on the agency's capital reserve fund, which has fallen to below its Congressionally mandated minimum of 2 percent, from over 6 percent two years ago. 
 The optimism expressed by Mr. Stevens, the F.H.A. commissioner, places him at odds not only with some outside experts but with Kenneth Donohue, the inspector general of the Housing and Urban Development Department, who is also F.H.A.'s watchdog. Mr. Donohue said the drop in reserves was ''a flashing red light'' that the agency was not taking seriously enough.
 ''It might be we'll get ourselves out of this and that everything will be fine, but I don't paint that rosy a picture,'' Mr. Donohue said. ''They're banking on the fact that the economy will continue to improve, that the housing market will begin to sustain itself.''
 He noted that if private lenders had raised their down payment requirements in the last two years, it raised the question, ''what does the F.H.A. think it is doing by asking only 3.5 percent?''
 Any more than that and Ms. Shimon, 45, would still be a renter. As it was, she cashed in her retirement savings account to come up with the necessary funds. She did not have enough to spare for closing costs, so her mortgage broker arranged a deal where the charges were wrapped into the loan at the cost of a higher interest rate. She cried when the deal was done.
 The house was empty and trashed. Slowly, she is trying to bring it back to life. She spent the first few weeks picking up garbage in the backyard. 
 Is Ms. Shimon a good bet? Even she has no easy answer. Her mortgage payment, $1,100, is half of what she takes home every month. It is not easy to make ends meet. Teachers can get laid off like everyone else. 
 ''The government,'' she said, ''is doing what it needed to do -- taking a risk on people.''
 Chaz Fullenkamp, an automotive technician in Columbus, Ohio, got an F.H.A. loan even though he was living on the financial edge. ''If I got unemployed, I'd be wiped out in a month or two,'' he says. Thanks to the F.H.A., however, he is better off than he used to be.
 Mr. Fullenkamp used F.H.A. insurance to buy a house this spring for $179,000. The eager seller paid the closing costs and also gave Mr. Fullenkamp $2,500 in cash. He immediately applied for the $8,000 tax rebate. Even taking his down payment into account, he came out ahead.
 ''I knew in my heart I could not really afford the house, but they gave it to me anyway,'' said Mr. Fullenkamp, 22. ''I thought, 'Wow, I'm surprised I pulled that off.' ''
 As the number of loans has soared, random quality control checks have decreased sharply, F.H.A. staff members say. Mr. Donohue, the inspector general, cited numerous examples of organized fraud in testimony to Congress earlier this year.
 ''They need to stop taking bad loans in the door,'' he said in an interview. ''They're taking on all this volume, they have to have very active underwriting standards.''
 Back to Business: This series examines the battles to reshape the financial industry. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bernadine Shimon and her son Cooper Jonas, at their home in Northglenn, Colo. The F.H.A. insured her mortgage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Edward Pinto, left, with David H. Stevens, the F.H.A. commissioner, on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) CHART: A Troubled Portfolio: The Federal Housing Administration sharply expanded the number of mortgages it insured to help support the housing market. Now half of its portfolio covers loans made since the beginning of 2007. But those recent loans have also been among the worst performing -- and they are running into trouble faster than loans from earlier years. (Source: Federal Housing Administration) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



224 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Jet Leasing Companies Stumble on Debt Burden

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Jet-leasing companies own or manage more than one-third of the airliners in the sky and, despite the turmoil in the global economy, are still turning significant profits. 
 Yet many of them -- top customers for Boeing and Airbus -- are sinking in debt and scrambling for cash. Several are up for sale but having difficulty attracting buyers. 
 When the dust settles eventually, analysts say, many lessors will probably face higher borrowing costs. And that could increase the cost of flying for airlines and passengers.
 ''There is a lot of disarray,'' said Ron Wainshal, chief executive of Aircastle, a leasing company with a fleet of about 130 commercial jets. 
 Historically, aircraft-leasing companies have tended to profit from downturns, when airlines put off orders for expensive planes in favor of taking them on lease until business improves. They have also capitalized on dips in demand to negotiate better prices from aircraft manufacturers.
 But the current environment has placed many lessors in a bind. As passenger and freight traffic began to tumble this year, airlines started parking their own jets by the hundreds and returning leased planes once their contracts expired. The financial crisis that began last year, meanwhile, made it almost impossible for leasing companies to raise the cash they needed to refinance debt on existing planes and to pay for new ones they had agreed to buy.
 The International Lease Finance Corporation, or I.L.F.C., a unit of the troubled insurer American International Group, is among the more prominent victims. Although it reported a 10 percent rise in second-quarter net profit, to $237 million, it has been unable to gain access to the capital markets since its parent received a $180 billion bailout from the United States government late last year. I.L.F.C. is the world's second-largest lessor by fleet size, after GE Commercial Aviation Services.
 A.I.G. has been looking to sell I.L.F.C. and other noncore assets as part of its restructuring. But the effort has been hampered by several factors, including $32 billion in outstanding debt that will need to be refinanced in the next two to four years. 
 ''A big issue for everybody today is refinancing debt as it comes due,'' said Mr. Wainshal, the chief of Aircastle, which is based in Stamford, Conn. ''I think being bigger is now actually much worse because of the difficulty in lining up a larger pool of funds.'' 
 The CIT Group is looking to sell its CIT Aerospace leasing subsidiary, while Babcock & Brown Aircraft Management and Allco Finance Group, both of Australia, are also up for sale by parents that filed for bankruptcy this year. Last month, Royal Bank of Scotland -- the recipient of a British government bailout worth $:20 billion, or about $31.9 billion -- said it had hired Goldman Sachs to help find a buyer for its RBS Aviation Capital unit.
 Over the last two decades, aircraft leasing has grown from a niche market to a $150 billion industry. Leasing companies own or manage 34 percent of the roughly 18,000 commercial airliners flying today, according to Ascend, an aviation consulting firm in London. 
 The lessors up for sale own a total portfolio of more than 1,800 planes, valued at about $57 billion. But analysts say the value of those assets is declining rapidly. Over the last 12 months, commercial aircraft values have fallen by an average of about 15 to 20 percent, according to Ascend. For planes older than 10 years, appraised values have dropped by as much as 35 percent. 
 ''Market conditions are still highly uncertain, especially for older equipment,'' said Richard Aboulafia, an analyst at the Teal Group, an aerospace consulting firm based in Virginia. ''It's tough to gauge the outlook of a company's value when you don't know when asset values will stop falling.''
 Adding to the pressure on values is the steady stream of new planes coming off assembly lines at Boeing and Airbus. Airlines have taken roughly 2,000 airplanes out of their fleets over the last year, but manufacturers have delivered 1,000 new planes in the same period, said Eddy Pieniazek, a director at Ascend.
 ''All indications are that asset values will stay soft and lease rates will do likewise, especially as we head into the winter,'' when air traffic traditionally falls, Mr. Pieniazek said. 
 Patrick Harris, president of HMG Aviation, an aviation finance consultant and aircraft appraiser in Boca Raton, Fla., said: ''This is not an environment in which to be selling any hard assets. People are not coming to the table willingly.''
 That is why anyone who has the resources will wait out the crisis, analysts said. A.I.G. and Royal Bank of Scotland are now majority-owned by their respective governments, which gives them significant breathing room. 
 ''A private enterprise would have been forced to sell a business like I.L.F.C. at a huge loss,'' said Adam Pilarski, an economist and senior vice president at Avitas, an aviation consulting firm in Chantilly, Virginia. ''Governments can wait until the market picks up.'' 
 There have been some hints recently that investors and lenders are growing more confident about the aviation sector in general amid signs the declines in air traffic may be slowing. Delta Air Lines and American Airlines, for example, raised a combined $950 million from the sale of high-yield bonds last month, while Qatar Airways said on Sept. 29 that it had secured two loans worth $700 million from European and Japanese banks for the purchase of new planes.
 Yet when money does start to flow back to leasing companies, some said it was unlikely to come at the same low rates the industry enjoyed in the past.
 I.L.F.C., for example, used to be able to borrow cheaply in the United States commercial paper market because of the triple-A credit rating that A.I.G. had before the crisis. Whoever ends up buying the company will -- in addition to taking on mountains of existing debt -- need to come up with a different financing model that most likely will involve borrowing money on more expensive terms.
 ''Anybody that ends up acquiring I.L.F.C. or RBS or CIT is going to have to deal with that issue,'' said John McMahon, chief executive of Genesis Lease, an Irish lessor that last month was acquired by the Dutch company AerCap Holdings for just over $300 million in stock. 
 Analysts predicted that the higher costs of capital would translate into higher lease rates and other fees that lessors typically charge airlines for the use of their aircraft. ''The cost of leasing will be going up,'' said Mr. Pilarski, the Avitas economist. ''This will increase the cost of flying.''
 Most agree that when the industry does finally emerge from its turmoil, the landscape will look a bit different. Having been badly burned twice in the last decade -- by the September 2001 terrorist attacks and the current financial crisis -- many airlines are moving toward leasing more planes, rather than buying directly from manufacturers.
 ''Lessors will reorder themselves and I think they will eventually end up with a bigger share of aircraft ownership than they have now,'' said Mr. Wainshal, the Aircastle chief. ''Within 10 years, they'll probably own half the market. A lot of that will be for financial reasons, but also because operationally it gives airlines much greater flexibility.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven Udvar-Hazy, head of International Lease Finance Corporation, which has been unable to get loans for new planes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Financial Turbulence: Aircraft leasing companies have been hard hit by the recession, making it difficult for them to raise cash to refinance their existing airliners or pay for planes on order. Some of the sector's largest players are up for sale. (Source: Ascend) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASING INDUSTRY (92%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (79%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); AIR FARES (70%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (90%); GE COMMERCIAL AVIATION SERVICES (84%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (66%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (60%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); AIRCASTLE LTD (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); BABCOCK & BROWN LTD (51%); CIT GROUP INC (51%); ALLCO FINANCE GROUP LTD (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (90%); BAB (BRU) (90%); BA (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); RBS (NYSE) (60%); RBS (LSE) (60%); RBS (AMS) (60%); AYR (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (55%); CIT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (90%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (51%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (51%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (50%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



225 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: The Uneducated American

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
If you had to explain America's economic success with one word, that word would be ''education.'' In the 19th century, America led the way in universal basic education. Then, as other nations followed suit, the ''high school revolution'' of the early 20th century took us to a whole new level. And in the years after World War II, America established a commanding position in higher education. 
 But that was then. The rise of American education was, overwhelmingly, the rise of public education -- and for the past 30 years our political scene has been dominated by the view that any and all government spending is a waste of taxpayer dollars. Education, as one of the largest components of public spending, has inevitably suffered. 
 Until now, the results of educational neglect have been gradual -- a slow-motion erosion of America's relative position. But things are about to get much worse, as the economic crisis -- its effects exacerbated by the penny-wise, pound-foolish behavior that passes for ''fiscal responsibility'' in Washington -- deals a severe blow to education across the board.
 About that erosion: there has been a flurry of reporting recently about threats to the dominance of America's elite universities. What hasn't been reported to the same extent, at least as far as I've seen, is our relative decline in more mundane measures. America, which used to take the lead in educating its young, has been gradually falling behind other advanced countries. 
 Most people, I suspect, still have in their minds an image of America as the great land of college education, unique in the extent to which higher learning is offered to the population at large. That image used to correspond to reality. But these days young Americans are considerably less likely than young people in many other countries to graduate from college. In fact, we have a college graduation rate that's slightly below the average across all advanced economies.
 Even without the effects of the current crisis, there would be every reason to expect us to fall further in these rankings, if only because we make it so hard for those with limited financial means to stay in school. In America, with its weak social safety net and limited student aid, students are far more likely than their counterparts in, say, France to hold part-time jobs while still attending classes. Not surprisingly, given the financial pressures, young Americans are also less likely to stay in school and more likely to become full-time workers instead.
 But the crisis has placed huge additional stress on our creaking educational system.
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the United States economy lost 273,000 jobs last month. Of those lost jobs, 29,000 were in state and local education, bringing the total losses in that category over the past five months to 143,000. That may not sound like much, but education is one of those areas that should, and normally does, keep growing even during a recession. Markets may be troubled, but that's no reason to stop teaching our children. Yet that's exactly what we're doing.
 There's no mystery about what's going on: education is mainly the responsibility of state and local governments, which are in dire fiscal straits. Adequate federal aid could have made a big difference. But while some aid has been provided, it has made up only a fraction of the shortfall. In part, that's because back in February centrist senators insisted on stripping much of that aid from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, a k a the stimulus bill. 
 As a result, education is on the chopping block. And laid-off teachers are only part of the story. Even more important is the way that we're shutting off opportunities. 
 For example, the Chronicle of Higher Education recently reported on the plight of California's community college students. For generations, talented students from less affluent families have used those colleges as a stepping stone to the state's public universities. But in the face of the state's budget crisis those universities have been forced to slam the door on this year's potential transfer students. One result, almost surely, will be lifetime damage to many students' prospects -- and a large, gratuitous waste of human potential.
 So what should be done?
 First of all, Congress needs to undo the sins of February, and approve another big round of aid to state governments. We don't have to call it a stimulus, but it would be a very effective way to create or save thousands of jobs. And it would, at the same time, be an investment in our future.
 Beyond that, we need to wake up and realize that one of the keys to our nation's historic success is now a wasting asset. Education made America great; neglect of education can reverse the process.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); STATISTICS (65%); LAYOFFS (61%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



226 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Intrepid Shoe Executive Casts Lot With Albania

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: TIRANA, Albania 

 BODY:
Donika Mici has braved decades of dictatorship, the burning down of one of her factories, a near civil war and a mother-in-law who thought she would be better off cooking in the kitchen than running a fashion empire.
 Now, however, Ms. Mici, 47, chief executive of DoniAnna, the largest shoe manufacturing business in Albania, says the time has come for Albania Inc. to shed its outmoded image and overcome the hurdles of the past.
While other shoe exporters produce at least some of their shoes in nearby Italy for the cachet of a Made in Italy label, Ms. Mici makes shoes only in Albania and proudly insists that a Made in Albania label is no longer an impediment to success. 
 DoniAnna has an enviable client list of retailers, from mass-market chains like Macy's and Bata to specialty chains like Aldo and Kenneth Cole. The company had sales of more than 14 million euros, or $20.4 million, in the first half of this year. It employs 1,400 workers and exports to more than a dozen countries, including Italy, the United States and France. 
 ''You have to be very, very tough to succeed in this country, because we started with nothing after Communism fell in 1990,'' said Ms. Mici, a down-to-earth mother of one, whose main concessions to fashion are Versace glasses and a train of Chihuahuas following her on DoniAnna's sprawling factory floor. 
 ''Now, Albania is heading in the right direction to become a modern European country, and there is no turning back,'' she said.
 Yet that transformation will not be easy. While Albania, a poor southern Balkan country of 3.6 million people, joined NATO in April and aspires to join the European Union, its economy is still struggling to heal the scars left by 40 years of brutal authoritarianism under Enver Hoxha, a Stalinist dictator who fostered a crude socialism that demonized Western capitalism as the enemy. 
 It is a sign of Albania's progress that today, Tirana, the capital, overflows with young people loitering at dozens of hip new cafes. Edi Rama, the tall, charismatic former artist who has been mayor for the last eight years, has splashed bright paint on the city's once-squalid facades, removed 90 tons of garbage and invested heavily in education and health care. 
 Yet much of the countryside remains in a third world time warp, and the national economy is so underdeveloped that Albania still imports staples like milk and sugar. Transparency International, the Berlin-based anticorruption monitor, ranked Albania among Europe's 10 most corrupt countries last year. More than 18 percent of the population is estimated to live below the poverty line of $2 a day, according to Amnesty International.
 Whether Albania can build a successful economy will help determine whether it can stabilize the Balkans or remain an impoverished backwater.
 Prime Minister Sali Berisha, a former heart surgeon who has dominated Albanian politics for decades, argued in an interview that the country was on the right course and had weathered the global financial crisis. Gross domestic product grew 6 percent in the first quarter of the year, and, unlike some of its neighbors, Albania has not needed a bailout.
 ''The effects of world financial crisis have influenced the Albanian economy, but there is no economic crisis here,'' Mr. Berisha said.
 Still the governor of Albania's central bank, Ardian Fullani, warned in August that excessive government spending was threatening the country's macroeconomic stability. Albania had a run on its banks last October, when the onset of the global economic downturn prompted thousands of Albanians to withdraw their savings. That aggravated a liquidity shortage that some economists fear could, combined with a spiraling budget deficit, unhinge the economy. 
 Assuming the economy remains relatively stable, Ms. Mici says Albania's potential resides in a low-cost and hardworking work force that, she argues, makes it an attractive manufacturing center. She added that Albania had the potential to become an outsourcing alternative to China and India. 
 ''We have low wages, and we do not skimp on quality,'' she said, rubbing her painted fingernails over a stack of brown cowhide. ''And while it can take six months for a manufacturer in Bangalore to fill an order for a European shoe retailer, Albania's location means it takes only 30 days for my shoes to go from factory floor to a shelf in London or Paris.''
 The daughter of an army officer and a chef, Ms. Mici started DoniAnna in 1992 -- a time, she said, when Albania was so isolated that microwave ovens were unattainable and she was the only woman who drove a car in Tirana. With no credit available because no banking sector existed, she teamed up with an Italian investor. Within a few years, she was producing a million pairs of shoes a year and exporting across the world. 
 The stress was unbearable, she recalled, not least because she was a woman in an abidingly macho society. When she arrived for meetings with male suppliers, she said, they would routinely ask to see the boss.
 ''I'm a pioneer in this country because I was one of the first people, never mind women, to set up a private business after Communism fell,'' she said. ''My husband's family were not happy, but I hired a nanny and someone to cook and clean and iron his clothes. I told my husband, 'The system has changed and these are the new rules.' ''
 Ms. Mici said building an export-oriented company from scratch also proved difficult in a nascent democracy without regulations to govern customs duties and safety, among other things. 
 In March 2008, when a former military ammunition depot exploded in Gerdec, a village northwest of Tirana, killing 26 people, DoniAnna's nearby factory burned to the ground, causing more than 1 million euros worth of damage. 
 ''My company could be five times bigger but all of these hurdles slowed me down,'' she said. ''I have worked day and night. My daughter says: 'You are not like one man, you are like 10 men. You never give up.' ''
 Business executives note that investing in Albania is not for the fainthearted or risk-averse. 
 When Francesco Becchetti, one of Albania's biggest foreign investors, arrived in 1997 from Italy with the idea of exploiting Albania's hydroelectric potential, he was the only foreigner on the plane, he said. At that time, Albania was on the brink of civil war and tens of thousands of citizens were fleeing. ''Everyone was desperate to leave the country,'' he said. ''People told me I was crazy.'' 
 More than a decade later, his company, the Becchetti Energy Group, is investing a large sum in energy projects, including a sprawling hydroelectric plant on the Vjosa River in Kalivac, in southern Albania. At a time when Europe is seeking to offset its dependence on Russian energy, he argued that Albania, blessed by abundant rivers and at the crossroads of major natural gas lines, could become an important regional energy hub. 
 Mr. Becchetti said one of the biggest challenges of undertaking large infrastructure projects in Albania was getting financing because of the country's poor image. Its underdeveloped infrastructure meant he had to finance the construction of a six-mile road in Kalivac to allow him to transport cables, generators and everything else to the hydroelectric site. Because of a brain drain in Albania, the company had to import expensive engineers from Italy, he said. 
 Still, Mr. Becchetti said Albania's potential more than compensated for all the obstacles. ''In the past people would laugh when I said I was investing in Albania,'' he said. ''Now, no one is laughing.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DoniAnna, in Tirana, Albania, is the nation's largest shoemaker, with sales of more than $20.4 million in the first half of 2009.
 Donika Mici started DoniAnna in 1992, teaming up with an Italian investor because no credit was available in Albania. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULI SINA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); RETAILERS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (65%); DOGS (64%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (63%); CORRUPTION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TIRANA, ALBANIA (89%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ALBANIA (97%); EUROPE (93%); ITALY (93%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



227 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Amid Turmoil, L.P.G.A. Makes Cuts

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The L.P.G.A., beset by losses and management turmoil, has laid off eight employees, including its deputy commissioner, Libba Galloway.
 Galloway will stay through the end of the year, while the other seven employees were dismissed immediately. 
 The elimination of Galloway's job was ''due to the changes in our tournament business and other effects of the worldwide recession,'' the acting commissioner, Marty Evans, said in a statement Wednesday.
 The L.P.G.A. has seen its revenue and its tour schedule shrink this year. The L.P.G.A. is hosting 27 tournaments this year with prize money of about $47 million, down from 34 in 2008, when players competed for a record $64 million. Next year, the tour is expected to include between 23 and 25 events, potentially the fewest since 1971, when there were 21.
 The L.P.G.A. receives 6 percent of the purse of each tournament, so the elimination of seven events this year would cost it hundreds of thousands of dollars.
 Last month, Anheuser-Busch said it would not renew its sponsorship of the Michelob Ultra Open at Kingsmill in Williamsburg, Va. The tournament, which the company sponsored for seven years, was considered a favorite by players and fans.
 The L.P.G.A.'s economic difficulties were one reason that Carolyn Bivens resigned as commissioner in July, a year before her contract was to expire. With unusual rancor, Bivens was criticized by players on the tour for her unwillingness to negotiate with sponsors to lower their costs of putting on tournaments. That led some sponsors to leave the tour.
 Bivens, who became commissioner in 2005, also drew criticism for instituting a policy that would have penalized the tour's foreign-born players if they did not speak English. That policy was dropped. 
 The L.P.G.A. has set up a search committee to find a replacement for Evans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (53%) VIRGINIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



228 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (BBC America) FRIDAY NIGHT WITH STREISAND AND ROSS Jonathan Ross devotes the entire episode (even changing the title of his program, ''Friday Night With Jonathan Ross'') to Barbra Streisand, above with Mr. Ross. She offers a few star-studded nuggets, like how she wanted Elvis Presley for ''A Star Is Born''; loves nothing more than staying at home with her husband, James Brolin; injured her thumbs giving Robert De Niro a massage in ''Meet the Fockers''; and will not watch herself on-screen, ever. Yet in spite of her famous aversion to performing before a live audience, she gamely does so here. 
 8 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER After an aspiring musician is found dead behind a trash can, a bag of cash leads to the suspect, who admits killing the victim because his daughter has been kidnapped. But when she shows up at home with her cellphone missing, Detectives Lupo (Jeremy Sisto) and Bernard (Anthony Anderson) suddenly have a terrorist plot on their hands. 
 8 P.M. (CBS) GHOST WHISPERER Eli's father has a heart attack that provokes a disquieting reunion with his wife, who has been unable to cross over since dying 10 years earlier. In ''Medium,'' at 9, Allison (Patricia Arquette) suspects foul play when a friend with cancer (Martha Plimpton) suddenly dies.
 8:30 P.M. (Fox) 'TIL DEATH Joy (Joely Fisher) and Eddie (Brad Garrett) decide to get separate beds.
 8:30 P.M. (13, 49) NOW ON PBS How did discussions between seniors and their doctors about end-of-life options morph into ''death panels'' in the debate on a health-care overhaul? The series travels to the Gundersen Lutheran Hospital in Wisconsin, which has one of the most comprehensive end-of-life planning programs in the nation. It also listens in as two families grapple with life and death and explain their decisions.
 9 P.M. (Fox) DOLLHOUSE Echo (Eliza Dushku) and Victor (Enver Gjokaj) spar after she is imprinted with the personality of a carefree college student and he is given the identity of a psychotic young man. 
 9 P.M. (USA) MONK Monk (Tony Shalhoub) joins a therapy group, but it seems someone wants its members dead.
 9 P.M. (21) KEEPING UP APPEARANCES In this episode from 1995, Hyacinth (Patricia Routledge) ''borrows'' a Rolls-Royce from a dealership to impress the neighbors. It seems to work -- until the car is reported stolen.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) BILL MOYERS JOURNAL Is the recession really coming to an end? Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, and Representative Marcy Kaptur, Democrat of Ohio, report on bailouts, the state of the economy and reform efforts. Later Mr. Moyers remembers his friend Charlie Houston, a physician, climber and altitude researcher who died on Sept. 27.
 9 P.M. (Sundance) THE PLEASURE OF BEING ROBBED (2008) The director Joshua Safdie racked up comparisons in some quarters to the young Godard, Truffaut and Bresson after this, his feature debut, which follows the exploits of Eleonore (played by Eleonore Hendricks, above, who also wrote the film with Mr. Safdie), a happy-go-lucky kleptomaniac on the prowl in Lower Manhattan. Rob Nelson in Variety, however, found it ''sub-mumblecore,'' and Laura Kern, writing in The New York Times, called the film ''a technically deficient bore with little on its agenda.''
 9 P.M. (Animal Planet) I'M ALIVE Survivors of animal attacks tell their grisly stories, starting with a Colorado teenager who was bitten by a black widow spider and a man attacked by a wild elephant in China.
 9 P.M. (National Geographic) DOG WHISPERER In this Season 6 premiere, Cesar Millan goes back to the basics with ''How to Raise the Perfect Dog,'' a primer created to show viewers how to avoid the canine atrocities he has helped cure in more than 100 episodes. His test cases: four tightly wound and exceedingly cute puppies, which will live with Mr. Millan and his pack of new-and-improved dogs for their first eight months. In ''Rescue Ink Unleashed,'' at 10, the tough guys come to the aid of a woman who claims that her neighbor is trapping, torturing and killing animals.
 10 P.M. (Syfy) SANCTUARY Dr. Helen Magnus (Amanda Tapping) resumes her search for her daughter, Ashley (Emilie Ullerup), in this Season 2 opener. Along the way she runs into Kate Freelander (Agam Darshi), a con woman linked to the Cabal who wields vital information. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); DEATH & DYING (71%); TERRORISM (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); CANCER (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



229 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: After Heartening Reports, Shares Rise

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The economy is still a long way from healthy, but on Thursday, a constellation of signals on job losses, company profits and retail sales gave Wall Street a little more reason for optimism.
 First-time unemployment claims fell by 33,000 last week to their lowest levels since early January, brightening hopes about employment. The aluminum maker Alcoa turned a profit over the summer after a year of losses. Mortgage rates fell, making it easier for borrowers to afford a home. And retailers posted their strongest sales of the year. 
 Taken together, the reports provided some evidence that the economy was still on a gradual route to recovery and eased some worries that flared last week amid a flurry of worsening economic figures. 
 ''This is a good day,'' said Stu Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank. ''People who pulled back out of fear are starting to spend more. And we are seeing the evidence now. This confirms that the improvement is likely continuing.''
 Many are expecting a long, plodding recovery hampered by high unemployment and plenty of residual worry, but the figures suggested that the economy was nonetheless heading higher after a drastic contraction.
 And the president of the Richmond Federal Reserve, Jeffrey M. Lacker, who is a voting member of the Fed policy-making board, told reporters Thursday that the risk of a double-dip recession had dwindled.
 On Wall Street, investors rushed to buy energy producers, retailers and basic-materials companies whose businesses would boom as business picks up. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 61.29 points, or 0.63 percent, to 9,786.87, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was 7.90 points, or 0.75 percent, higher, at 1,065.48. The Nasdaq was up 13.60 points, or 0.64 percent, higher at 2,123.93.
 In the energy market, crude oil rose $2.12 to settle at $71.69 a barrel in New York trading, and gold continued to race higher, closing at a record $1,056 an ounce. The dollar fell for another day, to its lowest levels of the year, as investors continued to bet that the American currency would lose its luster as the global economy healed.
 The three major equity exchanges in Europe -- London, Paris and Frankfurt -- all ended the day about 1 percent higher. 
 ''We're up eight months in a row now,'' said Bruce A. Bittles, chief investment strategist at Robert W. Baird & Company. ''We're looking to see if optimism gets excessive, especially after news developments like today.''
 On Thursday, the Labor Department reported that first-time jobless claims fell to a seasonally adjusted 521,000 last week, and that continuing claims for unemployment aid fell by 72,000 to 6 million for the week ending Sept. 26. 
 Few economists expect the job market to snap back after nearly two years of relentless layoffs and firings, but the numbers hint that October could be better than last month. Job losses accelerated in September, dashing hopes that businesses would do any substantial hiring before the end of the year.
 Retailers said sales had improved in September as families went back-to-school shopping, and were 0.6 percent higher than a year ago, when the economy was collapsing.
 Although retail sales are still dreary by historic standards and are likely to be flat during the holiday season, the numbers offered some evidence that consumers were spending at least a little. Consumer spending, which makes up 70 percent of the economy, has edged up over the last four months, and is expected to grow in the third quarter. 
 Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 18/32, to 103 5/32, and the yield rose to 3.25 percent from 3.18 percent late Wednesday.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of 16-day cash management bills and 30-year bonds: 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
Freddie Mac Yields (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 Tax-Exempt Yields (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); CURRENCIES (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (56%)

COMPANY: ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (61%); ALCOA INC (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BRUCE BITTLES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



230 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Growth of Prescription Drug Sales Seen Slowing in 2010 to Lowest Rate in a Decade

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Growth of prescription drug revenue worldwide will probably decline 4 percent to 6 percent next year, the lowest rate in at least a decade, according to a forecast released on Thursday.
 The forecast by IMS Health, which tracks sales of prescription drugs in 220 countries, cited increased sales of generic drugs and the global recession as being among the reasons for the decline.
 In the United States, growth is expected to be about 5 percent, an improvement from last year, according to a five-year forecast from IMS. That is also an increase from the research firm's estimates from several months ago, and the new estimates indicate global sales of prescription drugs could reach $1 trillion a year in 2013. 
 A fifth of all growth in pharmaceutical sales will come from China between now and then, with the pharmaceutical market there growing at more than 20 percent a year, according to IMS. By 2013, China, the world's most populous country, should become its third-biggest prescription drug market -- after the United States and Japan -- with about $80 billion in 2013 sales. China was No. 10 six years ago.
 IMS projects worldwide sales growth of 4 to 7 percent each year through 2013.
 ''We are seeing the economic downturn influencing both patient behavior and payer strategies,'' said Murray Aitken, senior vice president of the company's Healthcare Insight analysis division.
 Mr. Aitken said patient spending was especially constrained in countries like Russia, Mexico and South Korea, where people directly pay for much of their health care. There has been less of an effect on sales in countries with national health care plans, like Germany, Japan and Spain, he said.
 IMS projects anemic growth of prescription drug revenue of 4.5 to 5.5 percent this year in the United States, 3 to 5 percent next year and average growth of 2 to 5 percent a year from 2008 through 2013. That is still better than last year, when American sales edged up 1.5 percent -- one-sixth the growth rate two years before. IMS expects drug sales in the United States to hit $325 billion to $355 billion in 2013, just over a third of the global total.
 Revenue worldwide could be affected by factors like the severity of the swine flu pandemic and what happens with health care reform legislation in Washington, Mr. Aitkin said.
 A major cause of slower worldwide growth is competition from generic drugs. Some blockbuster drugs already have lost patent protection, and their sales have plummeted as generic rivals reach pharmacy shelves. That trend will increase over the next five years.
 ''During that period, we have an unprecedented $137 billion worth of products losing patent protection, particularly in 2011 and 2012,'' Mr. Aitken said.
 New blockbuster products -- those with sales topping $1 billion a year -- will be able to replace only some of the revenue prescription drug companies will lose, he said.
 To compensate, big drug makers increasingly are focusing on emerging markets, countries with big populations and a growing middle class now spending more on health care. 
 As a result, IMS projects average annual sales growth of 13 to 16 percent through 2013 in the top emerging markets: China, Brazil, Russia, Mexico, India, Turkey and South Korea.
 Mr. Aitken noted the American forecast was up by a percentage point from what IMS expected as recently as April.
 ''Near-term growth prospects in the U.S. have strengthened in recent months,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (89%); TRENDS (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); PATENTS (60%); EPIDEMICS (50%); INFLUENZA (50%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (91%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



231 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 MEDIA TAKEOVER SHOWS POWER OF IRAN'S GUARDS
 The Revolutionary Guards Corps has tightened its grip on society, most recently by taking over Iran's telecommunications monopoly, and the guards' interests are increasingly driving Iran's policies. PAGE A4 
 GUILTY PLEA IN CANADIAN CASE 
 Zakaria Amara pleaded guilty to leading a plot to blow up at least three targets in an effort to get Canada to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan. PAGE A4 
 ROMANIA HONORS VICTIMS
 Romania unveiled a monument to the 300,000 Jews and Gypsies killed during the Holocaust in the country, which at times had denied that the genocide occurred. PAGE A6 
 BERLUSCONI REACTS TO RULING
 Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy did not seem his usual cheerful self a day after the Constitutional Court denied him immunity from corruption charges. PAGE A10 
 17 INDIAN COMMANDOS KILLED
 More than 200 Maoist rebels ambushed 45 police commandos in a remote part of western India, killing 17 of them and stealing their weapons, officials announced. PAGE A10 
 CZECH SLOWS LISBON TREATY
 President Vaclav Klaus of the Czech Republic demanded unspecified changes to the European Union pact. PAGE A10 
 French Minister Will Not Resign A8 
 Obituaries
 CHARLES SELIGER, 83
 His small, jewel-like paintings of imaginary natural forms made him the most idiosyncratic of the first Abstract Expressionists. PAGE A20 
 National
 U.S. BLOCKS OIL DRILLING AT 60 OF 77 SITES IN UTAH
 The Department of the Interior has frozen oil and gas development on 60 of 77 government-owned drilling sites in Utah that were leased in the last weeks of the Bush administration, saying the leasing process was rushed and badly flawed. PAGE A12
 HIGH JAIL RATE FOR DROPOUTS
 About one in every 10 of young men who have dropped out of high school are in jail or juvenile detention, compared with one in 33 graduates, according to a new study. PAGE A12 
 SKIPPING FLU INOCULATIONS
 Only about 21 percent of children age 5 to 17 -- the age group most likely to be infected with swine flu -- received seasonal flu shots last year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. PAGE A14 
 RECORD FINE FOR BLACKOUT
 Florida Power & Light has agreed to pay a record $25 million penalty for causing a blackout that left nearly a million customers in the dark in February 2008. PAGE A15 
 VIRUS LINKED TO FATIGUE
 Many people with chronic fatigue syndrome are infected with a little known virus that may cause or at least contribute to their illness, researchers are reporting in the journal Science. PAGE A16 
 'You Lie' Echoed in California A16 
 New York
 HOUSE ETHICS PANEL WIDENS INQUIRY INTO CONGRESSMAN
 The House Ethics Committee announced that it had expanded its investigation into a series of questionable financial deals made by Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York. PAGE A22 
 Business
 STORES SAW SMALL RISE IN SALES IN SEPTEMBER
 Big retail chains collectively managed to eke out a small sales increase in September. The figures were considerably better than analysts had expected and helped spark a rally on Wall Street. PAGE B1 
 BOEING WINS ONE ROUND
 Boeing's lobbying is paying off so far, as the Senate voted to keep a cargo plane program alive. But, because the Obama administration is paring military spending, the contractor is still bracing for cutbacks. PAGE B1 
 HEDGE FUND CHIEF TO RETIRE
 James H. Simons, a titan of the hedge fund industry, has told investors he will step down from the day-to-day management of Renaissance Technologies, the firm he founded more than 30 years ago. PAGE B1 
 INTEREST RATES HELD STEADY
 The European Central Bank and the Bank of England kept their benchmark rates at record lows. PAGE B3 
 NEW JOBLESS CLAIMS FALL
 The Labor Department said first-time claims for jobless benefits fell last week to the lowest level since January, a seasonally adjusted 521,000, from the previous week's revised total of 554,000. PAGE B7 
 Pepsi Reports Revenue Slide B2
 Drug Sales Expected to Slow B2
 Sports
 CONGRESS CALLS FOR REVIEW OF HALTED DRUG SUSPENSIONS
 The chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled a hearing for next month, saying he was concerned a recent court ruling could weaken drug testing in professional sports. PAGE B12 
 Weekend
 BEWARE OF STRANGERS BEARING CHAMPAGNE
 To the bounty of cautionary tales of young women seduced by smooth-talking rakes, add Jenny, in ''An Education.'' Jenny languishes in a London suburb until a snake slithers into the little garden of her life, A. O. Scott writes. A review. PAGE C1 
 ADDED LAYERS IN 'SIEGFRIED'
 The new production of Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle created for the Los Angeles Opera continues to divide audiences and critics. PAGE C2 
 Young and Old Sustain Cabaret C3
 Humor in Chekhov's 'Seagull' C7
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A25 
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); ETHICS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); INFLUENZA (85%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); PRISONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HOLOCAUST (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); GENOCIDE (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); LEASING INDUSTRY (69%); CHILDREN (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); IMMUNITY (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (66%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); CHRONIC DISEASES (61%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (60%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (68%); VACLAV KLAUS (54%); CHARLES B RANGEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); ROMANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); FRANCE (76%); ITALY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



232 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: When Law Obscures The Facts

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
The collapse of the auction-rate securities market is a largely forgotten part of the financial crisis, a disaster that was soon overwhelmed by bigger ones -- except for the investors who were caught up in it. 
 The investors thought they were buying safe short-term securities -- sort of like a money market fund but with an expectation of a slightly higher return. The securities were supposed to be easy to sell for face value.
 Now many of the investors are stuck with securities that pay ridiculously low yields. In some cases, the securities will never mature, so the investors will never get their money back unless they sell them for a fraction of what they paid. Those who thought they were being safe and cautious in fact were taking huge risks.
 The biggest losers so far are corporations that bought the paper but now find they are not covered by settlements some Wall Street firms made to reimburse individual investors. But there are still individuals who are stuck with the securities, either because their brokerage firm refused to settle or because they moved from one firm to another and found that neither firm was willing to reimburse them. 
 Some of those corporate purchasers may recall the old saying, ''Be careful what you ask for. You might get it.'' Those buyers of this paper are finding they cannot successfully sue because of a 1995 law that was strongly backed by corporate America as a way to curb frivolous lawsuits. 
 That law, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, says that a case, when filed, must be very specific about the fraud that is alleged, or it will be immediately dismissed. In many cases, a plaintiff would need access to inside information to make such a claim with enough detail. Such information could be there in company files, but the plaintiff has no way to get at it before the case is thrown out.
 The latest reversal for investors came late last month when a federal judge in Manhattan dismissed a case filed against Raymond James, a brokerage firm that underwrote and sold auction-rate securities and has refused to settle with regulators.
 In that case, a customer claimed that a broker at Raymond James had misled her about the safety of auction-rate securities, and argued that Raymond James, as an underwriter and as a firm that conducted auctions, was involved in a fraud to dump securities before the market for them collapsed.
 Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court said that was not enough. The broker, he said, worked for one Raymond James company. The underwriting was done by a different Raymond James company. ''There is no evidence in the complaint,'' the judge wrote, ''from which the court can infer that the Raymond James entities had even the most basic understanding of the others' business.''
 To a nonlawyer, all this sounds like the corporate veil being used to obscure reality. If the plaintiff could prove that one Raymond James subsidiary lied about the securities while another one profited from selling them, that would sound like enough to me. 
 Proving such a thing might be impossible; Raymond James argues there was no fraud, and that this case relies on ''a classic fraud-by-hindsight theory'': since the market failed, there must have been fraud. But if there is no discovery of evidence allowed, we will never know whether such a claim could be proved.
 Judge Kaplan gave the plaintiff until Oct. 16 to file an amended complaint that can pass muster under the 1995 law. Jonathan K. Levine, a partner in Girard Gibbs, the San Francisco firm representing the Raymond James customer, says a new complaint will be filed.
 Whether or not investors ever get their money back, the auction-rate securities debacle is an example of a good product gone bad.
 This could not have happened in the auction-rate market as originally conceived. In the beginning, back in 1984, the first auction-rate securities were preferred shares issued by major companies whose credit was reasonably easy to evaluate. Virtually the only risk for investors was that the issuing company would be unable to meet its obligations. In that regard, it was similar to commercial paper.
 What made it different was that auction-rate securities offered companies a way to raise money at short-term interest rates, but to treat it on their balance sheets as long-term capital. There was to be an auction every seven weeks at which a holder could sell the paper at par. That auction would determine the interest rate over the next seven weeks. The rate presumably would rise or fall with market interest rates and with the creditworthiness of the company.
 But what if auctions failed? What if there were not enough buyers for the paper?
 Then the current holders were stuck with it until the next auction. But the issuer would have to pay a penalty interest rate that was well above the rate it would normally have to pay. Any issuer that could borrow money -- that is, any issuer whose credit had not vanished -- presumably would redeem the paper instead of paying that punitive rate for more than one or two auction cycles.
 But as the market grew, things changed. The first deals had minimum investments of $500,000. By the end, the standard was $25,000. Differing types of auction-rate securities were issued, often by issuers whose credit was not as easy to evaluate, and auctions came as frequently as weekly.
 Most important, those ''penalty rates'' were set by formulas that became less and less generous to investors. In some cases, involving paper backed by student loans, the penalty rate can fall to zero for a month or two.
 One allegation in the Raymond James suit is that underwriters reduced those rates to attract issuers, and investors did not understand what was happening. The early auction-rate issues required that prospectuses be given to all buyers, including those in subsequent auctions, but that provision was later dropped.
 Providing prospectuses might not have done much good anyway. The documents were confusing when it came to explaining how penalty rates would be set, and sometimes did not even mention as a risk the possibility of an auction failure.
 By the summer of 2007, many people knew that auctions were succeeding only because underwriters were taking paper no one else wanted. What we don't know is how much paper ended up in Wall Street vaults, and how much was sold to corporate investors before the whole market collapsed in February 2008.
 The auction-rate securities that did have good penalty rates have been redeemed. But in some cases investors are stuck with tax-exempt securities that are perpetual and currently pay less than 1 percent a year. Those securities may never be redeemed.
 Ron Gallatin is a retired partner of Lehman Brothers and the man who invented auction-rate securities. He is critical of changes in the product, including the withering of penalty rates.
 ''I cannot comprehend how any broker could have had any client bid at an auction by October 2007,'' he said this week, pointing to the talk of auction problems that had spread around Wall Street and been reported. 
 Actually, he says he thinks he does comprehend what was going on: ''The reason is that the salesmen did not understand it. They thought it was a cash equivalent that paid them a fee. And in most cases, firms did not do anything to educate them.''
 If there ever is a wide-ranging trial, we might get to see which issues of auction-rate securities were owned by Wall Street firms in the summer and fall of 2007, and how much they sold before the collapse. We might learn if the firms understood risks they did not mention to customers.
 But that will not happen if judges continue to prevent such cases from proceeding even to the discovery process. Corporations that cheered the 1995 law may discover it keeps them from having a chance to recover their own losses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); JUDGES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



233 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Fall to 8-Month Low

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The number of new claims for jobless benefits fell last week to the lowest level since early January.
 The Labor Department said on Thursday that first-time claims for unemployment insurance dropped last week to a seasonally adjusted 521,000, from the previous week's upwardly revised total of 554,000. 
 That was better than the 540,000 that Wall Street economists had expected, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. 
 The drop was the fourth in five weeks. The four-week average, which smoothes fluctuations, fell to 539,750, the lowest since Jan. 17.
 Thursday's total was the second-lowest this year. Claims have been slowly declining since the spring, but remain well above the 325,000 that economists say is consistent with a healthy economy.
 The number of people continuing to claim benefits declined by 72,000, to 6.04 million. Analysts expected continuing claims to rise slightly. 
 When federal emergency programs are included, the total number of jobless benefit recipients dropped by about 90,000, to 8.9 million, in the week that ended Sept. 19, the latest data available showed. Congress has added up to 53 extra weeks of benefits on top of the 26 typically provided by the states, and is considering adding another 13 weeks.
 In another report, the Commerce Department said Thursday that wholesale inventories fell 1.3 percent in August, worse than the 1 percent drop economists had expected. That followed a 1.6 percent drop in July initially reported as a 1.4 percent decrease.
 Businesses reduced inventories at the wholesale level for a record 12th consecutive month in August, evidence that companies continue to trim orders to factories. But in an encouraging sign, sales at the wholesale level rose a better-than-expected 1 percent, the fifth consecutive gain and the largest increase since June 2008.
 Economists say they hope the rising sales will encourage businesses to begin restocking their depleted shelves, a switch that would raise factory production and help bolster broad economic growth in coming months.
 As businesses start restocking shelves, analysts said that would provide support for rising factory production and translate into faster economic growth. The concern is that consumer spending, which accounts for 70 percent of economic activity, could falter as the impact of various government stimulus programs begins to wane.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A class on jobless benefits in Arcadia, Calif. Almost nine million Americans are receiving aid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (89%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (65%); FACTORY ORDERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



234 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds That About 10 Percent of Young Male Dropouts Are in Jail or Detention

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
On any given day, about one in every 10 young male high school dropouts is in jail or juvenile detention, compared with one in 35 young male high school graduates, according to a new study of the effects of dropping out of school in an America where demand for low-skill workers is plunging.
 The picture is even bleaker for African-Americans, with nearly one in four young black male dropouts incarcerated or otherwise institutionalized on an average day, the study said. That compares with about one in 14 young, male, white, Asian or Hispanic dropouts. 
 Researchers at Northeastern University used census and other government data to carry out the study, which tracks the employment, workplace, parenting and criminal justice experiences of young high school dropouts. 
 ''We're trying to show what it means to be a dropout in the 21st century United States,'' said Andrew Sum, director of the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern, who headed a team of researchers that prepared the report. ''It's one of the country's costliest problems. The unemployment, the incarceration rates -- it's scary.''
 A coalition of civil rights and public education advocacy groups and a network of alternative schools in Chicago commissioned the report as part of a push for new educational opportunities for the nation's 6.2 million high school dropouts. 
 ''The dropout rate is driving the nation's increasing prison population, and it's a drag on America's economic competitiveness,'' said Marc H. Morial, the former New Orleans mayor who is president of the National Urban League, one of the groups in the coalition that commissioned the report. ''This report makes it clear that every American pays a cost when a young person leaves school without a diploma.''
 The report puts the collective cost to the nation over the working life of each high school dropout at $292,000. Mr. Sum said that figure took into account lost tax revenues, since dropouts earn less and therefore pay less in taxes than high school graduates. It also includes the costs of providing food stamps and other aid to dropouts and of incarcerating those who turn to crime.
 Daniel J. Losen, a senior associate at the Civil Rights Project at the University of California, Los Angeles, said the study was consistent with other economic studies of the dropout crisis, though he said the methodology of its cost-benefit analysis ''lacked transparency.''
 ''The report's strength is that it reveals in clear terms that there's a real crisis with the high numbers of young, especially minority males, who drop out of school and wind up incarcerated,'' Mr. Losen said.
 Previous studies have come up with estimates of the same order of magnitude on the social cost of low graduation rates. A 2007 study by Teachers College, Princeton and City University of New York researchers, for instance, estimated that society could save $209,000 in prison and other costs for every potential dropout who could be helped to complete high school. 
 The new report, in its analysis of 2008 unemployment rates, found that 54 percent of dropouts ages 16 to 24 were jobless, compared with 32 percent for high school graduates of the same age, and 13 percent for those with a college degree.
 Again, the statistics were worse for young African-American dropouts, whose unemployment rate last year was 69 percent, compared with 54 percent for whites and 47 percent for Hispanics. The unemployment rate among young Hispanics was lower, the report said, because included in that category were many illegal immigrants, who compete successfully for jobs with native-born youths. 
 The unemployment rates cited for all groups have climbed several points in 2009 because of the recession, Mr. Sum said.
 Young female dropouts were nine times more likely to have become single mothers than young women who went on to earn college degrees, the report said, citing census data for 2006 and 2007.
 The number of unmarried young women having children has increased sharply in some communities in part, Mr. Sum said, because large numbers of young men have dropped out of school and are jobless year round. As a result, young women do not view them as having the wherewithal to support a family.
 ''None of these guys can afford to own a home, they just don't have any money,'' he said. ''And as a result, any time they father a child it's out of wedlock. It wasn't like this 30 years ago.'' 
 He cited his hometown, Gary, Ind., as an example. ''Back in the 1970s, my friends in Gary would quit school in senior year and go to work at U.S. Steel and make a good living, and young guys in Michigan would go to work in an auto plant,'' he said. ''You just can't do that anymore. Today, you have a lot of dropouts who are jobless year round.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Dropouts in Jail or Detention: Male high school dropouts were 47 times more likely than college graduates to be jailed. And black men who dropped out had a much higher chance of incarceration than men in other groups, according to a study by Northeastern University in Boston.
Men ages 16 to 24 who were incarcerated in 2006-7
 Male high school dropouts ages 16 to 24 who were incarcerated in 2006-7 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (94%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); FOOD STAMPS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



235 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Another Kind of Foreclosure Crisis

 BODY:
The foreclosure crisis is being made substantially worse by a shortage of lawyers for people whose homes are at risk. 
 According to a new study, an overwhelming number of homeowners who face foreclosure do not have legal help in protecting their rights. As a result, people are losing their homes who do not need to. 
 In 2008, more than three million foreclosures were filed, and the number keeps growing. By one estimate, more than eight million families may lose their homes in the next four years. Having a home taken away is devastating for the families involved. This churning of people out of their houses, and in some cases into homeless shelters or out on the streets, is also expensive and disruptive for the nation as a whole.
 The Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law found that 86 percent of people facing property foreclosure last year in economically challenged Stark County, Ohio, lacked counsel. In Queens County, New York, 84 percent of defendants lacked full legal representation in proceedings involving foreclosures on ''subprime,'' ''high cost'' or ''non-traditional'' mortgages -- ones disproportionately targeted to low-income and minority populations.
 The law of mortgages and foreclosures is complicated even for many lawyers. It is hard to imagine what it must be like for a poor person with little legal knowledge to have to fight on his or her own to keep a home.
 Homeowners often have legal defenses, but laypeople are unlikely to know what they are or how to use them. A lawyer can also persuade lenders to slow down foreclosure proceedings, or to renegotiate terms, by invoking the appropriate federal, state and local laws.
 Foreclosures should not be allowed to go forward until, as the Brennan Center recommends, homeowners are at least given enough counseling to know whether they have viable legal claims. 
 Although budgets are tight these days, Congress and the states need to come up with more money for foreclosure legal assistance. 
 Class actions can be a powerful tool in challenging practices, like predatory lending, that affected large numbers of homeowners. Right now the Legal Services Corporation, which provides essential civil legal services to low income Americans, is barred by law from representing clients in class action suits. Congress should lift that and other unwarranted restrictions on legal service providers. Too many Americans urgently need help. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGAL AID (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (88%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); FAMILY (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (72%); FAIR LENDING (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



236 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Ailing Stores See a Hint Of Buoyancy

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
It was a small step toward economic recovery, but a giant step toward lifting the spirits of the nation's retailers. 
 Big retail chains collectively managed to eke out a small sales increase in September, they reported on Thursday. It was the first year-over-year sales increase since July 2008. 
 The figures were considerably better than analysts expected and helped generate a rally on Wall Street that sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 61 points, or 0.63 percent, to 9,786.87. 
 Shares of American Eagle Outfitters jumped nearly 9 percent, while Macy's shares rose 5 percent. Nordstrom and Limited Brands rose 4 percent each.
 For stores open at least a year, retailers posted a 0.6 percent increase in sales, compared with September of last year, according to Thomson Reuters. Analysts had been expecting about a 1 percent decline for September. 
 The result underscored the apparent stabilization of the economy, and gave several chains the confidence to increase their earnings projections. 
 ''Let the retail recovery begin!'' the International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry trade group, said in a report. 
 That may be a pervasive sentiment across a retail industry that has been battered in the last year, but the numbers suggest that retailers are not out of the woods yet.
 The improvement in September sales came largely because the stores had easier year-over-year comparisons. For the first time this year, retailers were comparing their sales with the abysmal numbers they began posting last fall, when the markets virtually collapsed. Stores also benefited from a calendar shift that pushed Labor Day, as well as the usual back-to-school shopping rush, later in September.
 ''You want to be careful how much you're reading into the improved numbers,'' said Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis at SpendingPulse, an information service by MasterCard Advisors that estimates sales for all forms of payment, including cash, checks and credit cards. 
 In an interview, Mr. McNamara explained that in a sector like jewelry, for instance, sales increased 1.2 percent in September from September 2008. But the dollar volume of sales ''is still about 5 percent lower than we were in September 2007 and about 10 percent lower than the sector was in September 2006,'' he said. 
 Stores are gearing up for the critical Christmas shopping season, but most industry consultants and economists are predicting flat sales at best. The National Retail Federation, an industry group, is forecasting a 1 percent decrease in sales for November and December.
 The general belief among industry professionals is that until the job market improves, consumers will continue to pinch pennies. In September, the unemployment rate reached 9.8 percent, up from 9.7 percent in August.
 September is considered the heart of the back-to-school shopping period, yet teenage clothing was the worst-performing category, with several major retailers turning in weak numbers. Sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health known as same-store sales, fell at Abercrombie & Fitch (down 18 percent), American Apparel (down 15 percent), Wet Seal (down 4.5 percent), Hot Topic (down 4 percent) and Zumiez (down 0.8 percent). 
 Sales at Gap were down 1 percent, though the company's value-priced Old Navy division posted a 13 percent increase, its best monthly figure in five years. 
 Same-store sales at Limited Brands, which owns Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works, rose 1 percent. 
 In general, the top teenage chains were those that have been faring well for the last few months, including Aeropostale, where sales climbed 19 percent, and Buckle, where sales rose 5.1 percent. 
 Department stores, by and large, are still hurting. Sales declined at Dillard's (down 6 percent), Stein Mart (down 5.4 percent), Bon-Ton (down 4.8 percent), J. C. Penney (down 1.4 percent), and Macy's (down 2.3 percent). 
 Nordstrom posted a 2.4 percent decline, though that was better than its upscale peers, Neiman Marcus and Saks, which again posted double-digit declines. At the specialty retail segment of Neiman Marcus, which includes Neiman Marcus stores and Bergdorf Goodman, sales fell 17.6 percent. 
 As expected, discount chains outperformed the rest of the industry. Sales at Costco were up 4 percent, not including gasoline and excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates. At BJ's Wholesale Club, sales were up 5.5 percent, not including gasoline. Target, the most upscale of the nation's big-box discounters, fell 1.7 percent. 
 Clothing retailers that offer upscale brands at a discount also stood out. At TJX Companies, which owns T. J. Maxx and Marshalls, sales increased 7 percent. A TJX competitor, Ross Stores, posted an 8 percent increase.
 Michael Balmuth, the president and chief executive of Ross Stores, suggested he might get what every retailer wants for Christmas: ''For the important holiday period,'' he said in a news release, ''we continue to project a comparable-store sales gain of 5 to 6 percent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shopping at a jewelry counter in Macy's store in Herald Square in Manhattan. Jewelry sales rose 1.2 percent last month. Analysts say that until the job market improves, shopping will be weak. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) (B4) CHARTS: Retail Sales in September. Goldman Sachs Retail Composite Index
Sales.(Source: company reports
 Goldman Sachs) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); US LABOR DAY (72%); CREDIT CARDS (67%); CHRISTMAS (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (55%)

TICKER: AEO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



237 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Firm Says Chief Will Retire

BYLINE: By ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
James H. Simons, one of the most respected money managers in the hedge fund industry, told investors Thursday he planned to step down from day-to-day management of Renaissance Technologies, the firm he founded over 30 years ago.
 Mr. Simons, 71, plans to become the nonexecutive chairman of Renaissance on Jan. 1 but will remain the firm's majority shareholder and participate in all major corporate decisions, he said in a letter to investors. 
 Peter Brown and Robert Mercer, who have been co-presidents of the firm, will be elevated to co-chief executives and have responsibility for the firm's 300 employees. 
 ''I have led the organization and its predecessor for 31 years, and it is definitely time to pass the torch,'' Mr. Simons said in the letter.
 A prize-winning mathematician and a former code breaker as a consultant to the Defense Department, Mr. Simons has slowly handed more control of the firm's operations to Mr. Brown and Mr. Mercer over the last six years to prepare for his eventual departure. Like many hedge funds, Renaissance had performance problems last year in its largest fund, the Renaissance Institutional Equities Fund.
 When the fund was started in 2005, Mr. Simons hoped to eventually raise $100 billion from outside investors, which would have been the industry's largest on record. Assets in the Institutional Equities Fund peaked at $27 billion in 2007, but have fallen more than 80 percent this year as investors raced to pull their money out. While it lost money last year in the financial crisis, the fund has not been able to pull out of its slump this year, despite the broad rally in the markets. It posted losses of 9.49 percent through Sept. 30, according to investors.
 That stands in stark contrast to Renaissance's oldest fund, Medallion, which skyrocketed 80 percent last year and has never had a losing year since it was started in 1988. Instead of M.B.A.'s, the firm employs dozens of computer programmers and Ph.D.'s, who create highly complex models to exploit subtle mispricing in stock, bond and commodities markets. Medallion was closed to outside investors in 1993 and contains money only from the firm's 300 employees, including Mr. Simons.
 Mr. Simons is secretive, preferring to speak at mathematics forums rather than attend Wall Street functions. He once told a group of potential investors that ''luck is largely responsible for my reputation for genius,'' according to an article in Institutional Investor Magazine in 2000. But, even with the Institutional Equities Fund's losses, many on Wall Street still say they believe that Mr. Simons has an almost supernatural talent for making money.
 The son of a shoe factory worker from the suburbs of Boston, Mr. Simons was awarded the Veblen Prize, the geometry world's highest honor, from the American Mathematics Society when he was 38. By 1976, he was trading currencies with his own money and working part time as professor at the State University of New York, Stony Brook. In 1978, he started a private investment fund called Limroy, investing in things like commodities and venture capital.
 He opened Medallion in 1988 with Henry Laufer, a former Princeton mathematics professor who is still Renaissance's chief researcher. Mr. Simons's success has made him a billionaire several times over. Forbes Magazine estimated that he took home $2.8 billion last year. He has put much of that wealth into his family foundation, which supports basic research and graduate education in mathematics and science among other things.
 After stepping away from running Renaissance, Mr. Simons plan to spend more time overseeing a major project to understand the causes of autism and building a center at Stony Brook University for the research of mathematics and physics. His foundation has also established Math for America, a program to attract and retain knowledgeable math teachers in the nation's public high schools, with chapters in several cities.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James H. Simons (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 James H. Simons, who founded Renaissance more than 30 years ago, will remain the hedge firm's majority shareholder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); COMMODITIES TRADING (63%)

PERSON: PETER C BROWN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



238 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'GOOD HAIR'; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Look but Don't Touch: It's All About the Hair

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
When one of Chris Rock's young daughters asked, ''Daddy, how come I don't have good hair?,'' the comedian decided to investigate the complex, often troubled relationship between African-American women and their crowning glory. He had no idea what he was in for.
 Embarking on a journey that would take him from beauty shops in the United States to a Hindu temple in India, from a hair show in Georgia to a product-manufacturing plant in North Carolina, Mr. Rock unearthed a world of physical, financial and psychological hurt. But though ''Good Hair'' embraces the pain, digging gingerly into wounds both political and personal, the film feels more like a celebration than a lament. Spirited, probing and frequently hilarious, it coasts on the fearless charm of its front man and the eye-opening candor of its interviewees, most of them women -- including the actress Nia Long and the hip-hop stars Salt-n-Pepa -- and all of them ready to dish. 
 In fact, one of the happy consequences of ''Good Hair'' should be a radical increase in white-woman empathy for their black sisters. Whether in thrall to ''creamy crack,'' a scary, aluminum-dissolving chemical otherwise known as relaxer (what it's really relaxing, observes Mr. Rock astutely, is white people), or the staggeringly expensive and time-consuming weave (often available on layaway plan), the women in the film bare heads and hearts with humor and without complaint.
 For the Rev. Al Sharpton, though, that's part of the problem. ''We wear our economic oppression on our heads,'' he says, wryly bemoaning the migration of the multibillion-dollar, black hair-products business from African-American to predominantly Asian manufacturers. Oppression takes on a darker hue, however, when the film travels to India to unearth the unwitting -- and unremunerated -- suppliers of all that weave- and wig-ready hair: poor, devout women who offer it to their priests in a religious ceremony known as tonsure. 
 Competently directed by Jeff Stilson, ''Good Hair'' employs humor as a medium for insightful and often uncomfortable observations on race and conformity. The film's only misstep is its fixation on the competitors in a flamboyant Atlanta hair show. Far more entertaining are the barbershop conversations in which ordinary men jovially gripe about their honeys' hairdos; they're a brotherhood joined in financial commitment and -- thanks to hands-off-the-head decrees at home -- emotional frustration.
 On a recent ''Oprah Winfrey Show,'' Mr. Rock ran his fingers excitedly through his host's luxuriant, natural tresses, unloosed in honor of the visit. ''I've never done that to a black woman!'' he marveled, while Ms. Winfrey, who used to threaten to shave her head when she reached her 50th birthday, giggled delightedly: at that moment, she was just happy not to have followed through with her threat.
 ''Good Hair'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Chemical treatments and revolutionary sentiments. 
 Good Hair
 Opens on Friday nationwide. Directed by Jeff Stilson; written by Chris Rock, Mr. Stilson, Lance Crouther and Chuck Sklar; director of photography, Cliff Charles; edited by Paul Marchand and Greg Nash; music by Marcus Miller; produced by Nelson George, Mr. Rock and Kevin O'Donnell; released by Roadside Attractions. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Rock in ''Good Hair,'' his investigation into the relationship between black women and their hair, which opens on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB MAHONEY/ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (71%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); HIP HOP CULTURE (67%); RAP MUSIC (67%)

PERSON: CHRIS ROCK (90%); OPRAH WINFREY (55%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%)

TITLE: Good Hair (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



239 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: In House, a Bid to Hasten a Credit Card Law

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Recent actions by credit card issuers prove that lawmakers should move up the date of new restrictions on interest rates and fees, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Thursday. 
 Mr. Frank said that financial companies had taken advantage of a delay in putting the credit card changes in place by raising customers' rates.
 ''This is not the type of protection that should wait, and we should move forward,'' Mr. Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said Thursday during a hearing on credit card restructuring.
 He said his committee would also take a more serious look at another credit card issue -- interchange fees.
 Interchange fees are the fees that retailers like supermarkets and convenience stores pay to banks every time a customer uses a credit card.
 Mr. Frank, along with another Democrat, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, have introduced legislation that would move up the date for the new credit card rules to Dec. 1, from Feb. 22, 2010.
 The regulations were approved by Congress and signed into law this year by President Obama.
 The rules will sharply restrict credit card issuers' powers to raise interest rates on existing card balances, charge some types of fees, and burden cardholders with unreasonable penalties.
 Legislation has also been introduced to give merchants greater access to negotiations with banks to establish interchange fees, but those bills are not close to becoming law.
 Merchants contend the fees unfairly cut into their margins and drive up prices for consumers. Banks argue that the 50-year-old electronic payments system is efficient and based on a pricing system that benefits businesses and their customers.
 The American Bankers Association told lawmakers that merchants paid a penny or two on each dollar of payment card transactions and that ''this is a very small price to pay for all of these benefits.''
 A recent study by the Merchants Payments Coalition -- which represents retailers like supermarkets and convenience stores -- said that rate was up to six times greater than fees in other countries.
 Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, said Congress must be careful not to crack down too hard. He said the bill to increase the speed of credit card reforms and pending legislation to crack down on interchange fees could further restrict lending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House Financial Services Committee heard testimony on Thursday concerning the fees that merchants pay to banks on credit card transactions, which some stores say are too high. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (92%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); PRODUCT PRICING (74%); CONVENIENCE STORES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (53%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (93%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



240 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Fed Is Split Over Timing Of Rate Rise

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Fissures are developing among policy makers at the Federal Reserve as they debate how and when to start raising the benchmark interest rate from its current level just above zero.
 With Fed officials forecasting that unemployment will average 9.8 percent in 2010, nobody appears to be arguing that monetary policy should be tightened anytime soon. The central bank's official mantra continues to be that the overnight federal funds rate will remain ''exceptionally low'' for ''an extended period.'' 
 But Fed officials have hinted at new disagreement in recent weeks. The arguments go beyond the traditional split between hawks, who worry that easy money will stoke inflation, and doves, who contend that unemployment is the top problem. 
 The more devilish debates are about how fast to act once the decision has been made, and how to carry it out. Beyond raising the overnight federal funds rate, the Fed also has to unwind $2 trillion in special programs that prop up paralyzed banks and credit markets. 
 Where Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, stands in the emerging argument is a question mark. At a conference held by the Fed on Thursday evening, he assured economists that the central bank had a detailed list of tools to reverse course but offered no new hint of when he planned to begin his exit strategy.
 ''When the economic outlook has improved sufficiently, we will be prepared to tighten the stance of monetary policy and eventually return our balance sheet to a more normal configuration,'' Mr. Bernanke promised. 
 Any move to tighten monetary policy over the next year or so could set the stage for a clash between the Fed and the White House. The Obama administration has been outspoken in saying it does not want a quick end to stimulus policies, whether fiscal or monetary.
 Policy makers are haunted by the results of previous miscalculations. Mr. Bernanke and others have warned that the central bank should not repeat its error in 1937, when it raised interest rates too early and helped extend the Depression for several years.
 At the same time, officials at the Fed are acutely aware that it has been widely blamed for contributing to the housing bubble and the financial collapse by keeping the cost of borrowing too low for too long after the recession of 2001. 
 One hint of the discord came Tuesday, in a speech by Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.
 Though he stopped short of calling for immediate rate increases, Mr. Hoenig made it clear that he was getting impatient. 
 ''My experience tells me that we will need to remove our very accommodative policy sooner rather than later,'' he told an audience of business executives. ''Even if we were to start immediately, much time would pass before incremental increases could be considered tight or even neutral policy.''
 Mr. Hoenig is not currently a voting member of the Fed's policy committee, on which the regional Fed presidents hold rotating seats, but he presents his views at all meetings.
 And he is not alone.
 Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, sent a similar message in a speech on Sept. 29. ''That wind-down process needs to begin as soon as there are convincing signs that economic growth is gaining traction,'' he told a business group.
 Other Fed officials with similar views include Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond; Charles I. Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed; and Kevin M. Warsh, an influential Fed governor. 
 By contrast, some top Fed officials in Washington and New York have repeatedly emphasized that the economy is still extremely weak and that unemployment, already at its highest level since the early 1980s, will probably climb above 10 percent and remain high for several years.
 ''The turnaround is certainly welcome, but it shouldn't be overstated,'' Daniel K. Tarullo, a Fed governor, said on Thursday in an address to a civic group in Phoenix. ''The employment situation continues to be dismal.''
 William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, presented a detailed case that seemed aimed at responding to those calling for a quick end to low rates.
 ''Some observers are concerned that this expansion will ultimately prove to be inflationary,'' he told an audience at the Corporate Law Center at Fordham University. ''This concern is not well founded.''
 Mr. Dudley noted that unemployment among working-age men was 10.3 percent -- higher than in any other downturn since World War II. 
 On top of that, he said consumers were reeling from the ''wealth shock'' caused by the collapse in home prices and by losses to their stock portfolios. That could cause people to increase their saving rate, meaning less consumer spending in the short run. 
 Finally, Mr. Dudley cautioned that banks faced another wave of losses from loans tied to commercial real estate.
 Beyond the disagreements about the relative dangers of rising prices versus rising joblessness, Fed officials are grappling with how to decide on the need for higher interest rates.
 Mr. Bernanke and other officials want to see evidence that the economic recovery is self-sustaining, strong enough to generate jobs without the crutch of extremely low interest rates.
 But Mr. Warsh, as a Fed governor, has begun arguing that the central bank cannot afford to wait for irrefutable evidence of a solid expansion. Mr. Warsh recently argued that the Fed should take at least some of its cue from stock prices and other financial indicators, which turn around earlier and more quickly than the underlying economy.
 ''If policy makers insist on waiting until the level of real activity has plainly and substantially returned to normal,'' he warned in a speech on Sept. 25, ''they will have almost certainly waited too long.''
 Mr. Warsh and some other Fed officials also argue that when the time does come to change gears, the central bank may have to raise rates almost as fast as it slashed them when the crisis began.
 It remains unclear whether Mr. Bernanke agrees with that idea, though he and other Fed officials have emphasized that they have planned carefully for the Fed's exit strategy and have all the tools in place to reduce the special support programs quickly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told economists in Washington on Thursday night that the central bank had the tools to reverse course on rates but gave no hint when he planned to begin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); RECESSION (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); HOUSING BUBBLE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



241 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: In Trial Phase, Mortgage Bills Fall for 500,000

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
For months, troubled homeowners seeking to lower their mortgage payments under a federal plan have complained about bureaucratic bungling, ceaseless frustration and confusion. On Thursday, the Obama administration declared that the $75 billion program is finally providing broad relief after it pressured mortgage companies to move faster to modify more loans.
 Five hundred thousand troubled homeowners have had their loan payments lowered on a trial basis under the Making Home Affordable Program, said Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner in a morning telephone briefing with reporters. Mortgage payments are now being lowered faster than homes are being sold in foreclosure proceedings, he added, and roughly 40 percent of the 1.2 million homeowners deemed eligible have been helped.
 ''That's an important shift,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''Half a million families are participating in loan modifications that are substantially decreasing their housing costs.'' 
 But economists said the program was still not big enough to prevent many millions of Americans from losing their homes before the books are closed on the Great Recession and its painful aftermath.
 ''It's a help on the margin,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''But it's not going to end the foreclosure crisis.''
 By Mr. Zandi's reckoning, from this year to next, more than four million households will surrender homes to foreclosure or through so-called short sales, where the property is sold for less than the bank is owed.
 The half-million mortgages that have been adjusted to create lower payments for borrowers have been modified only on a trial basis. 
 After three months of successfully making new payments -- no sure thing -- borrowers must then submit additional paperwork to turn the trial terms into a permanent modification, creating more room for bureaucratic stumbles.
 Administration officials shed no light on what experts say is a crucial determinant of the ultimate success of the program: They said they did not know how many of the mortgage modifications had actually lowered the loan principal, as opposed to merely stretching out the life of the loan through lower payments. 
 Experts say homeowners whose principal balances are reduced are much less likely to fall back into delinquency. Reducing the principal is particularly important for those who are underwater, meaning they owe more than their home is worth.
 ''When people are underwater, they have a much higher re-default rate,'' said Diane Thompson, a lawyer for the National Consumer Law Center. ''If some subsequent life event happens, if there's a storm and they need money for repairs, if they lose their job, or they have to move and they need to sell the house, they are absolutely stuck.''
 Even as the Obama administration reports progress, many homeowners continue to express deep frustration with the program.
 In Hampton, Ga., Maxine Yancy and Michael A. Blaino say they were already approved for a loan modification from their mortgage company, GMAC, only to be informed that their agreement was mysteriously canceled, with the lender still threatening to foreclose on their home.
 Far from the free-spending, exuberant borrowers commonly associated with the foreclosure crisis, Ms. Yancy and Mr. Blaino, her son, typify the fastest-growing source of trouble: Those who have fallen into danger because of a lost job.
 Ms. Yancy, 73, is a retired schoolteacher whose income is about $2,200 a month -- roughly half from Social Security, the rest from a part-time job teaching at a community college. She and her son together bought a three-bedroom ranch six years ago, paying just under $123,000. They have a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage at an interest rate of a little more than 8 percent, requiring payments of $1,089 a month.
 The payments were manageable until June 2008, when Mr. Blaino lost his job in the reservations office of a local hotel. When the mother and son heard about the Obama administration's plan for loan modifications in February, they contacted their lender right away.
 When they sent in the paperwork, they were twice told that their file was incomplete. After sending in their paperwork a third time, GMAC responded with a ''temporary workout plan'' and invited them to pay $785 for the next three months.
 Ms. Yancy says she promptly mailed in a check only to have it returned with a letter saying they were delinquent. When she called customer service for an explanation, GMAC explained that a certified check was required, though this condition had not been disclosed. 
 She sent in a money order for her July payment, then more for August and September. But when Ms. Yancy called GMAC last month to see about the status of their application for a permanent loan modification, she was told that the workout plan had been canceled and their house would soon be sold in foreclosure, she recalled. 
 Horrified and confused, she pressed for an explanation, and was told that they had failed to pay the agreed-upon lower payment of $1,088.
 ''That totally doesn't make sense, because that was our original loan payment,'' Ms. Yancy said. ''It's crazy.''
 In the last two weeks, she and her son say they have left repeated messages with GMAC seeking a supervisor who can get to the bottom of the matter. ''This morning I woke up with hard pain in my chest right where my heart is,'' Ms. Yancy said. ''I know that this is probably from the stress of dealing with GMAC.''
 A GMAC spokeswoman declined to discuss the case, citing its privacy policy, but said generally that the lender has been eagerly processing loan modifications. The office that handles loan modifications has expanded its staff by 30 percent since January, and servicing teams have been working extra hours and on weekends, she said.
 According to a report released by Treasury on Thursday, GMAC had modified 26 percent of eligible loans that were at least two months' delinquent in September, making it one of the better performers. Bank of America, by contrast, had modified only 11 percent of such loans, according to the report.
 Some mortgage companies tell customers they cannot modify loans because they merely send out the monthly bills, while the mortgages are actually owned by investors. Yet industry insiders say many mortgage companies can profit by delaying the process and keeping homeowners in long-term delinquency, extracting myriad fees.
 Administration officials said they would continue to press mortgage companies for improvements in their handling of applications. On Thursday afternoon, Treasury and the Department of Housing and Urban Development summoned representatives from major mortgage companies to Washington for further discussions.
 ''We've put significant pressure on the servicers to ramp up production,'' said Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, in Thursday's briefing. ''We are keeping that pressure on.''
 Treasury first announced its foreclosure relief program in February. Under the plan, the government pays mortgage companies $1,000 for each loan they modify, and $1,000 a year for up to three years. The plan was advanced with the promise that it would eventually spare up to four million households from foreclosure. At the end of June, only 143,000 trial modifications had been begun, the Treasury Department now estimates.
 In July, frustrated by the slow pace and irritated by homeowner complaints, the Treasury Department summoned major mortgage companies to Washington for what was subsequently described by officials as a dressing down. The mortgage companies promised to improve their staffing and training. The administration soon set a target of 500,000 trial loan modifications by the end of this month, reaching that goal three weeks early.
 Still, officials said much work remained. ''Unacceptably large numbers of families across the country are still at risk of losing homes,'' said Mr. Geithner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maxine Yancy and her son, Michael A. Blaino, thought they had loan relief for their home in Hampton, Ga., but it fell through. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: More home loans are being renegotiated under the Home Affordable Modification Prorgam, though the participation rates vary among large lenders. Mortgages past due 60 days or more that have been modified. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); LAWYERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CONSUMER LAW (60%)

COMPANY: CONSUMER LAW CENTER (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (61%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



242 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Blocks Oil Drilling At 60 Sites In Utah

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Department of the Interior has frozen oil and gas development on 60 of 77 contested drilling sites in Utah, saying the process of leasing the land was rushed and badly flawed. 
 The 77 government-owned parcels, covering some 100,000 acres in eastern and southern Utah, were leased in the last weeks of the Bush administration. But the leases were immediately challenged by conservation groups, and in January a federal judge blocked drilling on the ground that the Interior Department had failed to follow its own procedures for reviewing the appropriateness of lands designated for oil and gas extraction.
 An Interior Department review team then presented Secretary Ken Salazar with a recommendation that drilling be allowed to proceed on 17 of the 77 parcels. But it also said that the leases on eight parcels should be withdrawn and that 52 should be subjected to further study because of potential threats to wildlife and air and water quality.
 In announcing Thursday that he had accepted those recommendations, Mr. Salazar said there was a ''headlong rush'' at the end of the Bush administration to lease the sites, without proper attention to environmental and aesthetic concerns. Some of the parcels are near Arches National Park, Canyonlands National Park and Dinosaur National Monument.
 The report of the review team ''helps clear off the cloud that has hung over these 77 parcels since they were first proposed,'' Mr. Salazar said, ''and includes site-specific decisions on which should be leased and which -- such as those near national parks -- are simply not appropriate for development.''
 In recommending lease withdrawal or further study for 60 of the parcels, the review team gave a variety of reasons, including possible damage to the habitat of sage grouse, which is being considered for endangered species protection, and to avoid the dust and noise pollution associated with drilling operations.
 Conservation groups that had sued to block the leases applauded Mr. Salazar for weighing environmental effects in reconsidering the actions of the Bush administration. They expressed relief that most of the potential drilling sites would receive further scrutiny, and said they hoped that the leases on those sites would ultimately be withdrawn as well.
 ''Stopping the leasing of these treasured lands to protect them from devastation by oil and gas companies was the right thing to do,'' said Amy Mall of the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''The Department of Interior should move forward with clean energy solutions that will protect our pristine wild lands and vital wildlife areas and cut carbon pollution.''
 Jack N. Gerard, president of the American Petroleum Institute, the chief trade group for the industry, criticized the action, saying it was one of a series by the Obama administration to thwart oil and gas development.
 ''This troubling trend means less revenue to federal, state and local governments at a time when our nation is running a record deficit,'' Mr. Gerard said. ''It also means fewer jobs at a time our nation is headed toward 10 percent unemployment, and it means less domestic energy available when our economy recovers and demand rebounds.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); WILDERNESS (76%); PARTICULATE MATTER (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); NOISE POLLUTION (62%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



243 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: The Baucus Conundrum

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The longer the health care debate goes on, the more I become convinced that the American system needs fundamental reform. We need to transition away from a fee-for-service system to one that directs incentives toward better care, not more procedures. We need to move away from the employer-based system, which is eroding year by year. We need to move toward a more transparent system, in which people see the consequences of their choices. 
 I've also become convinced that the approach championed by Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, is the best vehicle for this sort of change. The Wyden approach -- first introduced in a bill with Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, and now pared down to an amendment to the current bills--would combine choice with universal coverage. 
 People with insurance could stay with their existing health plans. But if they didn't like the plans their employer offered, they could take the money their employer spends, add whatever they wanted to throw in, and shop for a better option on a regulated exchange. People without insurance would get subsidies to shop at the exchanges.
 Americans would have real choices. The vigorous exchanges would reward providers and insurers that are efficient, creative and innovative.
 But barring a legislative miracle, the Wyden approach was effectively killed in committee last week. The business and union lobbies worked furiously against it. They want to control their employees' and members' benefit packages. Many politicians support it in principle but oppose it in practice. They fear that if they try to fundamentally reform the system, voters will revolt.
 So what we are going to get is health insurance reform, not health care reform. We'll be adjusting and expanding the current system, not essentially changing it.
 At this point people like me could throw up our hands and oppose everything. But that's not what adulthood is about. In the real world, you often don't get to choose what your options will be. You have to choose from a few bad options. The real health care choice now is between the status quo and the bill primarily authored by Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, that is emerging from the Senate Finance Committee.
 The Baucus bill centralizes power, in contrast to the free choice approach, which decentralizes it. The Baucus approach aims to reduce costs, expand coverage and improve efficiency by empowering regulators to write a better set of rules. It aims to rationalize the current system from the top down.
 This approach has many weaknesses. It entrenches a flawed system. It creates greater uniformity and rigidity. It redistributes income from the politically disorganized young to the politically organized old. It squeezes people into a Rube Goldberg complex of bureaucracies based on their income level. It will impose huge costs on people as they rise up the income ladder, distorting the whole economy.
 The biggest problem is that it will retard innovation. Top-down systems just don't innovate well, no matter how many Innovation Centers you put in the Department of Health and Human Services. The bill will retard innovation by using monopoly power to squeeze costs. It will also retard innovation by directing resources toward current care (and current voters) and away from future technologies and future beneficiaries.
 But the Baucus bill has some advantages over the status quo as well. It would insure an additional 29 million people, a social benefit critics never grapple with.
 It is also more fiscally responsible than any other committee bill. It courageously cuts Medicare benefits by hundreds of billions. It raises taxes on the upper and middle classes in many necessary (and covert) ways. The bill will not really be budget neutral, but the authors have taken fiscal responsibility seriously. They've earned that good score from the Congressional Budget Office.
 Most impressively, the Baucus bill includes many provisions to make government-run health care more rational. It would bundle payments to hospitals and encourage doctors to work in efficient teams. It would punish hospitals that have to readmit patients. It would create a commission to perpetually squeeze costs. It would improve information technology. It would measure the comparative effectiveness of different treatments. No one knows how much savings would be produced by these changes in payment method, but they could be significant.
 If you asked me to compare the Baucus approach with the Wyden approach, the answer is easy. But if you asked me to compare it with the status quo, the answer is hard. The Baucus bill contains hidden bombs that could lead to a rigid bureaucratic system that still doesn't address the fundamental problems. On the other hand, it contains hidden experiments that could lead to new models that might spread across the system.
 If I were in Congress, I'd figure there's an 80 percent chance of something like this passing anyway. I might as well get engaged as a provisional supporter to fight to make it better, or at least to fight off the coming onslaught to make it worse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); INSURANCE (88%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); INSURANCE LAW (73%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (79%); RON WYDEN (74%); ROBERT BENNETT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



244 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: A Clearer Picture of Bank's Health

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
This year's calm summer in financial markets could give bank investors just what they need: a hint of the true earnings power of financial institutions. The third-quarter results of American banks, which start rolling in next week, should be cleaner than for some time. 
 For starters, while banks will continue to add provisions against souring loans, the era of widespread multibillion-dollar write-downs seems to be over. In fact, asset prices rose in the three months to September. That could herald some write-ups for the handful of firms, like Goldman Sachs, that mark all their holdings to market. And the better prices may encourage others finally to consider selling their unwanted dross. 
 There are even a few positive signs on consumer loans. Summer data on credit card losses weren't as bad as some expected. The Marshall & Ilsley Corporation, a small Milwaukee-based bank, indicated Tuesday that the percentage of its loans that were nonperforming dropped from the previous quarter for the first time in four years, though Marshall & Ilsley has been more aggressive in dealing with its problem loans than many of its peers. 
 What's more, there should be fewer one-time items. They won't completely disappear: the likes of Bank of America and Citigroup will have to take losses because the market value of their own debt has risen; others, including Capital One, JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and U.S. Bancorp, will take hits from buying back warrants issued to the government. Morgan Stanley's earnings will be weighed down by both.
 But far fewer banks sold businesses or investments to raise capital, meaning last quarter's headline results should be smoother and easier to compare than in earlier periods. 
 Meanwhile, some recent froth has dissipated. Mortgage lending, for example, was running at a decent clip in the third quarter, but not as frenzied as in the first half. And lower trading volumes and smaller gaps between bid and offer prices should mean investment banks' fixed income and equities trading divisions found it harder to rake in record revenue. 
 That's not to say banks are out of the woods. Trouble in commercial real estate portfolios could still pack a punch, and a double-dip recession remains a possibility. But last quarter's earnings may give the best indication in a while of what really lies under each bank's hood.
 Bonds Eclipse Loans
 Giant bank loans were a hallmark of the credit boom. Banks wanted to lend, and bankers loved the idea of splitting up big loans. Risk could be diversified and there was money to be made trading. But the loan business is a casualty of the bust. And bond investors are moving in.
 Globally, nonfinancial companies have raised more money in bond markets than through syndicated loans so far in 2009, the first time on record this has happened, according to data provider Dealogic.
 Global syndicated loan volume for these companies has shrunk from $4.2 trillion in the peak year 2007 to $1.1 trillion in the first nine months of this year. Bond issuance, by contrast, has increased to $1.3 trillion, hardly replacing all the lost loans, but still turning on its head the pattern of a few years ago.
 From 2003 to 2007, the worldwide volume of new syndicated loans for nonfinancial companies grew at a 28 percent annual clip. Over the same period, bond issuance expanded at only a 6 percent annual rate. By 2007, loan issuance was nearly five times as large as bond issuance. 
 Then the bubble burst, loans went bad, and banks ran short of capital. Meanwhile collateralized loan obligations, vehicles that were meant to repackage sometimes risky loans and provided a big chunk of boom-time loan demand, also withdrew to lick their wounds.
 Other kinds of investors didn't suffer quite so badly. With bond yields attractive, it makes sense that they've stepped up. In the nine months to September, global bond issuance was 47 percent higher than for the whole of 2008. Bonds can be expensive and inflexible for borrowers. But when they need cash and banks are out of action, these disadvantages pale. 
 Once banks are more strongly capitalized, the syndicated loan business will grow again. But as with so many practices a few years ago, chaff got mixed in with wheat. The credit crisis has provided a useful sort of winnowing. ANTONY CURRIE and EDWARD HADAS 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vacant offices may create problems in real estate portfolios for banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SYNDICATED LOANS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); U S BANCORP (66%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (84%); USB (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (71%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



245 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Weak Pepsi Sales in U.S. Faulted for Revenue Slide

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
PepsiCo reported weaker-than-expected quarterly revenue Thursday, hurt by falling North American soft drink sales, and cautioned it did not expect a major revival of consumer spending next year. 
 ''Our consumer research shows that the age of thrift that we're seeing in consumers in the U.S. and Western Europe will continue in 2010, and that consumers will continue to remain very careful about their spending,'' the chief executive, Indra Nooyi, said in a conference call.
 In emerging markets of Asia and South America, Ms. Nooyi said consumer spending should grow, but not at a rate that entirely offsets the slow growth in the West.
 The company, which is buying the Pepsi Bottling Group and PepsiAmericas for $7.8 billion, also affirmed its 2009 earnings target and set a 2010 goal ahead of analysts' expectations.
 Net income rose to $1.72 billion, or $1.09 a share, from $1.58 billion, or 99 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Excluding one-time items, PepsiCo earned $1.08 a share, topping analysts' average estimate of $1.03. The profit surprise was mainly driven by a lower-than-expected tax rate, according to a JPMorgan analyst, John Faucher.
 Revenue in the period, which ended Sept. 5 and was the third quarter of PepsiCo's fiscal year, fell 1.5 percent to $11.08 billion, missing analysts' average expectation for $11.25 billion.
 Stock in PepsiCo, which is based in Purchase, N.Y., fell 78 cents, to $60.39 a share.
 A Morningstar analyst, Philip Gorham, said the lower-than-expected revenue probably prompted investor concern over the company's ability to increase its sales.
 Sales by volume rose 2 percent in PepsiCo's snacks business, both in the Americas and internationally. In the drinks business, volume was up 0.5 percent, with a decline of 6 percent in the Americas and a rise of 9 percent internationally.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pepsi expects North America and Western Europe to remain tepid into 2010. Asia and South America are expected to grow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); INCOME TAX (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (90%); PEPSI-COLA METROPOLITAN BOTTLING CO (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: INDRA K NOOYI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (88%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



246 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: The Kingdom and the Power, All Self-Made

BYLINE: By JACOB WEISBERG. 
Jacob Weisberg is chairman of the Slate Group and the author of ''The Bush Tragedy'' (2008).

 BODY:
MIKE BLOOMBERG 
 Money, Power, Politics 
 By Joyce Purnick 
 Illustrated. 252 pages. PublicAffairs. $26.95. 
 When Michael R. Bloomberg became mayor of New York City on Jan. 1, 2002, there was every reason to expect him to fail. A cosseted tycoon with no political experience, he had essentially purchased the office with a $74 million check. He had no place in the city's ethnic stew, no gift for relating to ordinary people, and little news media presence. His clumsy, often arrogant comments were shot through with the Ross Perot fallacy that political problems are easy compared with the really tough ones businessmen have to deal with. 
 How the former chief executive overcame these liabilities to become a popular and effective mayor has the makings of a wonderful metropolitan fable, a reverse Cinderella tale in which the princess throws away her glass slippers and gets serious about sweeping the floor. Part of his success would seem to derive from a well-concealed modesty. Mr. Bloomberg knew what he didn't know and learned from his mistakes, even if he seldom acknowledged them. 
 He brought in high-quality people, listened to them and looked after them. Another aspect of Mr. Bloomberg's success, surely, has been the substantive core of his amateurism -- his naive view that politics is a problem on the way to policy and not the other way around. Because he wasn't trying to get anywhere else, he didn't shrink from making sound, unpopular decisions like raising property taxes or banning smoking in bars. Nor did he avoid clashes with entrenched constituencies like the teachers' unions, transportation workers or the antediluvian overlords in Albany. 
 Joyce Purnick, a former columnist and metropolitan editor for The New York Times, gives us the basics of this story in a straightforward, biographical chronicle, ''Mike Bloomberg: Money, Power, Politics.''
 Her account begins with Mr. Bloomberg's unexceptional middle-class childhood in Medford, Mass., glances over his formative years as a salesman at Salomon Brothers, charts the rise of his eponymous company after he was cut loose from Salomon with a $10 million parachute, and offers a few mildly salacious tidbits from his years as a divorced man about town in the 1990s. 
 Her narrative grows more animated when she arrives at the 2001 and 2005 mayoral campaigns, which she covered as a reporter and columnist. It becomes more excited still when she tries to establish, not very convincingly, that Mr. Bloomberg nearly ran for president as a third-party candidate in 2008 and, more persuasively, that he held off declaring his decision to run for a third term until it was too late to put New York's term-limits law to a public referendum, which he probably would have lost. 
 While Ms. Purnick's recounting of Mr. Bloomberg's early gaffes and fumbles may interest political trivia buffs, she underplays the far more interesting issues his mayoralty raises about New York City and about urban governing in general. How did Mayor Bloomberg achieve further reductions in crime, which many people assumed couldn't happen after the large gains of the Giuliani years? Has he improved the city's fundamental fiscal position or just postponed crisis for a few years? On such policy questions, she has little to say. 
 To a large extent, this is a book undermined by the principle of journalistic neutrality. Because she is not willing to grant the premise that Mr. Bloomberg has done a good job as mayor -- or to challenge it either -- Ms. Purnick pre-empts any deeper inquiry into the reasons for his successes and failures. Too often, she resorts to the ''critics complain'' formulation or takes the reporter's dodge of casting decisions in terms of political perceptions. 
 Too often as well, Ms. Purnick levels pallid accusations of personal hypocrisy. ''His stubborn insistence on banning the use of cellphones in public schools mystified and angered New Yorkers, more convinced than ever that the mayor, personally BlackBerry-addicted, was out of touch with day-to-day concerns of students,'' she writes. This hardly counts as a critique of the policy. When it comes to Mr. Bloomberg's most important education initiative -- mayoral control of the schools -- she falls back on the conclusion that he and Schools Chancellor Joel Klein have exaggerated their successes. Well, who in politics hasn't? 
 Lukewarm about her subject, she faults him for being dull. The result is a lifeless portrait. ''He is not warm, beloved, or glib in a profession that demands all three,'' she concludes, adding, ''And that is okay with him.'' We finish knowing a bit more about Mr. Bloomberg, but not knowing him any better. 
 I suspect that an author who managed to penetrate deeper inside the mayor's head would find it a far more interesting place. So too would a writer more attuned to the social comedy of a city ruled by its richest resident. 
 Like most liberal billionaires, Mr. Bloomberg is a hypocrite for pushing social equality while using his cash to buy extraordinary power and privilege. If bottomless wealth frees him from the conventional temptations of politics, it inclines him to buy his way out of tight corners, as in negotiations with the big municipal unions, where he has overpaid relative to what the city can afford. Living so long in a coddled bubble has left Mr. Bloomberg philanthropically minded but less engaged by the specific problems of the city's poor than by livability issues like traffic, transportation, public safety and clean air. 
 New York's billionaire mayor may be, as Ms. Purnick says, sui generis, but as a rich man seeking fulfillment in public life, he represents a growing trend. Despite the recent catastrophe of American finance, heroes of capitalism, who have presumably graduated from the motive of economic self-interest, hold a priestly allure. Being ordered about by a self-made Bloomberg or Jon Corzine doesn't have the same class implications as being scolded by a Rockefeller or a Bush -- which may be why ungovernable New Yorkers have come to tolerate the mayor's paternalism. He may whine about our diets, our manners, our carbon emissions. But after eight years, many New Yorkers seem to agree that it's nice having a sugar daddy to take care of you. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WRITERS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); SMOKING (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Mike Bloomberg: Money, Power, Politics (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



247 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Pelosi Takes On G.O.P. For 'in Her Place' Gibe

BYLINE: By Bernie Becker

 BODY:
Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Thursday smacked down the notion -- raised by a Republican statement -- that she needed to be put ''in her place'' for her views on Afghanistan. 
 At her weekly briefing, Ms. Pelosi, a California Democrat who has expressed a reluctance to approve sending more troops into the war there, said the National Republican Congressional Committee did not understand ''how inappropriate'' its comments were.
 ''I'm in my place,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ''I'm the speaker of the House, the first woman speaker of the House, and I'm in my place because the House of Representatives voted me there.'' 
 She also hinted that the Republican committee might be a little behind the times when it came to gender, reinforcing the opinions of Democratic women who have come to her defense. ''That language is something I haven't even heard in decades,'' Ms. Pelosi said. 
 The flap started earlier this week, after the committee released a statement calling the speaker ''General Pelosi'' and accusing her of believing ''she is better suited to craft our country's military policy'' than Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the top commander in Afghanistan. 
 The committee drove home its point by asserting that ''if Nancy Pelosi's failed economic policies are any indicator of the effect she may have on Afghanistan, taxpayers can only hope McChrystal is able to put her in her place.''
 The committee stood by its earlier statement on Thursday. 
 ''The last time Americans saw this type of outright contempt directed toward a four-star general is when this same San Francisco liberal attempted to undercut Gen. David Petraeus by declaring his successful surge strategy a 'failure,' '' said Joanna Burgos, a spokeswoman for the group.
 BERNIE BECKER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); WOMEN (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (92%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (57%); DAVID PETRAEUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



248 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Flying Into Headwinds

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Senator John McCain argued recently in a floor debate to strip $2.5 billion worth of cargo planes from a military spending bill, he complained that members of Congress could not ''walk through these hallways without bumping into a lobbyist from Boeing.'' 
 Mr. McCain had President Obama on his side in calling for a halt in production of the cargo plane, the C-17, to save money for other military priorities. But thousands of jobs were also at stake. The giant aerospace company's efforts -- it has 23 lobbyists -- paid off. This week, the Senate voted to keep the program alive, and a House-Senate conference will make the final call soon on how many more of the planes to buy.
 Boeing needs any victory it can get these days. Its biggest potential moneymaker, the Dreamliner commercial jet, is two years late and costing billions of dollars more than expected. Boeing also said this week it would take a $1 billion charge on a commercial freight plane. 
 And while the company had sharply expanded its defense business in recent years, it was clear that the flush times in military spending were coming to an end, and Boeing could be the biggest loser. 
 Since the Obama administration started paring back weapons systems last spring, Boeing has been hit harder than any major contractor. Its efforts to create new Army combat systems and defenses against missile attacks have been cut back. And it has watched tens of billions of dollars of potential business evaporate as the Pentagon canceled or delayed plans for other new systems.
 Boeing has responded by stepping up its lobbying to extend some of its most profitable programs, like the C-17 and the F/A-18 fighter jet. The company, based in Chicago, has expanded its foreign military sales, and it is pushing into new areas, like unmanned spy planes and cybersecurity.
 It is also fighting once again for a $50 billion contract for aerial refueling tankers, the only huge new program on the horizon.
 Despite the pressures on military spending, Boeing executives say they can maintain military revenue at current levels over the next two years, after which they expect it to grow. But military analysts question whether the company will be able to replace all the business it is losing. As Pentagon budgets tighten, Boeing's problems could be an early warning for other military contractors.
 ''The defense industry is grappling with the fact that the big increases of the Bush years are now over,'' said Loren B. Thompson, an analyst at the Lexington Institute, a research group financed partly by military contractors. ''And the spending on weapons is starting to melt down so fast that it will be difficult for most companies to compensate by adding revenue from other sources.''
 In fact, plans for more cuts in advanced systems have been leaking out as the military services prepare new five-year budgets focused more on weapons for basic warfare. 
 Because of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and all the modernization programs, the Pentagon's budget since fiscal 2000 soared by 72 percent, adjusted for inflation, to about $640 billion. Robert M. Gates, the defense secretary, has said he would like to keep overall spending stable.
 But rising costs for military personnel, and a shift to simpler systems like remote-controlled planes, are cutting into funds for more advanced weapons. And executives at Boeing and other companies recognize that the government's fiscal crisis probably will mean more cuts.
 ''There is no doubt there is going to be less spending on defense technology going forward,'' Boeing's chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., said in a recent interview.
 Boeing's military division is expected to bring in $33 billion to $34 billion this year, about half the company's total revenue. That is up from $18 billion in 1997, when Boeing bought McDonnell Douglas and other military contractors to cushion the boom-and-bust cycles of the commercial side.
 After the terrorist attacks in 2001, the surge in Pentagon spending offset a steep drop in commercial plane sales. But Boeing executives say it was clear early in last year's presidential race that military spending was going to be scrutinized more closely, which prompted Mr. McNerney to beef up Boeing's lobbying efforts.
 Mr. McCain had blown the whistle on a corruption scandal involving Boeing's first attempt to land a contract for refueling tankers in 2003. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Obama had also pledged to tighten Pentagon contracting. 
 ''Jim took a long view, that whether Obama or McCain won, there would be change,'' said Timothy Keating, a former legislative director for the Clinton White House who heads Boeing's lobbying team. 
 Mr. McNerney hired Mr. Keating as a senior vice president in May 2008, and Mr. Keating has added former top Congressional aides to Boeing's lobbying staff. 
 Before the C-17 vote, Boeing's lobbyists emphasized that up to 30,000 jobs were on the line, counting workers at its plant in California and among its suppliers in 44 states. 
 The House approved three more of the $250 million planes, and the Senate approved 10, and Congressional aides said the conference negotiators were likely to go for all 10, or close to it. 
 Both chambers also agreed to buy nine more Boeing F/A-18 fighters, worth about $500 million in total, than the Pentagon requested.
 But while Boeing will get a short-term lift from the extra planes, the cuts in its Army modernization and missile defense programs have left ''a monstrous hole'' in its broader lineup, said James McAleese, a military consultant in McLean, Va. 
 Mr. McAleese said Boeing had won those contracts by conjuring up grand visions of what it could do and by promising to manage dozens of subcontractors. But the Army and the missile defense programs were delayed by technological difficulties, and the Pentagon has decided to save money by taking back some of the oversight work. 
 Pentagon leaders have also pushed off other contracts that Boeing was pursuing. They include a $15 billion program to build search-and-rescue helicopters and an effort to develop a new stealth bomber.
 By contrast, Lockheed Martin, the largest contractor, has the Pentagon's biggest program, the $300 billion effort to build the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, which will replace the F/A-18 and other planes. Lockheed Martin is also taking much of the missile defense business in Europe that Boeing is losing. 
 But Boeing's helicopters are in demand in Iraq and Afghanistan, and it is building a new antisubmarine plane, the P-8A. Together, these aircraft could bring in $6 billion to $7 billion in annual revenue over the next decade. 
 Boeing's international arms sales have also surged and now account for 16 percent of its military business, up from 5 percent in 2004. Its support unit, which services planes and handles logistics, is also growing rapidly.
 Like other big contractors, Boeing has bought several small companies to help it shift into new areas like cybersecurity and drones. It also plans to seek work from other agencies, like the Energy Department.
 ''So while we might see flattening or declining revenue from one business, we'll see growth in others, and those will balance out,'' said Dennis A. Muilenburg, the new chief of Boeing's military division.
 But the competition in those areas is likely to be fierce. The biggest wild card for Boeing remains the new contract for the refueling tanker, which will start at $50 billion and could eventually grow to more than $100 billion.
 Northrop Grumman and the French company that makes Airbus planes teamed up to win last year. But government auditors blocked the award after Boeing protested that the evaluations had been unfair. 
 This time, the Air Force has come up with a numerical scoring system to try to cut through the lobbying and turn the competition into a shoot-out for the lowest price.
 ''That's the big program capture we're all focused on this year,'' Mr. McNerney said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An F-18 jet, above, being built in St. Louis. The Senate voted this week to keep the C-17 cargo plane, below, alive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW, IAN HITCHCOCK/GETTY IMAGES) (B1
)Dennis Muilenburg, chief of Boeing's military unit, said Boeing might have flat revenue in one division and growth in another.
 Fighter assembly in St. Louis. Congress agreed to buy more Boeing F/A-18 jets than the Pentagon requested, and Boeing has stepped up its lobbying on some of its most profitable programs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); ARMIES (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (77%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (73%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009



249 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: As Americans Stop Buying, Trade Deficit Declines

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Dire warnings about the need for Americans to save more and spend less didn't work. Nagging China, Japan and Germany to buy more American products didn't work. 
 No matter how much economists and political leaders warned about huge global trade imbalances and the astronomical foreign debt of the United States, American consumers kept buying more and borrowing more from the rest of the world.
 Until the financial crisis, that is. 
 In a striking case of shock therapy, global trade imbalances have declined by almost half since the financial system nearly collapsed one year ago.
 On Friday, the Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit of the United States shrank by another $1.2 billion in August, to $30.7 billion. American exports edged up to $128.2 billion and imports declined slightly to $158.9 billion. 
 But the real news is the change from one year ago. 
 For the first eight months of the year, the United States trade deficit with China is down by about 14 percent or $20 billion, compared with one year ago. The nation's trade deficit with Japan has shrunk by almost 20 percent, and its deficits with Mexico, Canada and the European Union are down more than 40 percent. 
 The huge shift stems mainly from the staggering collapse in trade. With credit markets frozen and Americans facing the highest unemployment in more than 30 years, the United States suddenly stopped shopping overseas at anywhere near the volumes that had become normal.
 And even though the economy is beginning to recover, economists say the global trade shift still has some distance to go. The value of the dollar, which has been falling sharply, will make imports more expensive and restrain American appetites for at least the next year.
 All of which raises a question: is the free market suddenly imposing the kind of brutal rebalancing that global political leaders, for all their pronouncements and handwringing, never came close to achieving?
 Last month, President Obama and leaders from the Group of 20 large economies agreed to cooperate on reducing global imbalances. The United States would try to increase saving and get its fiscal house in order. China and other export-dependent countries would try to save less and spend more at home. The leaders even agreed to submit to evaluation of each other's policies, with help from the International Monetary Fund.
 At least for the moment, the financial crisis has delivered swifter and more sweeping change than policy makers could hope to accomplish.
 It isn't just in the United States, either. China's trade surplus with the rest of the world has plummeted to less than 6 percent of its gross domestic product, from 11 percent. 
 But economists say the change could prove fleeting. 
 ''Officials cannot just sit there and do nothing, and expect the rebalancing to continue,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
 Indeed, American consumers are already showing hints of their old fondness for shopping rather than saving. The household saving rate shot up from less than 1 percent before the crisis to more than 5 percent this spring, but it has since slipped back to less than 4 percent. In the early 1990s, American families were saving about 7 percent of their income -- and even that was less than in much of Asia and Europe.
 Simon Johnson, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said it was normal for a country's trade balance to improve during an economic downturn. ''The adjustment we're seeing right now could be the harbinger of a real adjustment in saving and spending, but we don't know yet,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''People in emerging markets want to run big surpluses, because they want to build up reserves.'' 
 But the increased prudence of American consumers may be less important than whether the United States comes to grips with its enormous government budget deficits. The federal budget deficit is expected to hit $1.4 trillion this year, and to remain above $1 trillion for at least the next several years. Making matters worse, the nation's baby boomers are expected to drive up spending on Medicare and Social Security, causing government deficits to balloon for decades unless the programs are changed.
 Mr. Bergsten, in a forthcoming paper in Foreign Affairs magazine, warned that the budget deficits were likely to create a vicious circle that aggravated the nation's trade deficits and foreign indebtedness. Huge deficits, Mr. Bergsten said, would actually drive up the value of the dollar because the government would be forced to offer higher interest rates to keep foreign investors buying Treasury securities. Higher interest rates would cause the value of the dollar to climb, which would make American products more expensive in world markets.
 Kenneth S. Rogoff, an economist at Harvard University and co-author with Carmen M. Reinhart of ''This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,'' said he had fully expected the dollar to plunge in value, at least initially, and to at least temporarily stifle American appetites. But he said the effect might be only temporary.
 ''Countries typically see a big rise in net exports after a crisis, much as the U.S. has,'' he said. ''However, it is very unclear if the U.S. can sustain the improvement as markets normalize.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China is still sending cargo from the port of Dalian to the United States, but the nation's trade deficit with China is down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH DALZIEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIAONING, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



250 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: New Way to Tap Gas May Expand Global Supplies

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: OKLAHOMA CITY 

 BODY:
A new technique that tapped previously inaccessible supplies of natural gas in the United States is spreading to the rest of the world, raising hopes of a huge expansion in global reserves of the cleanest fossil fuel.
 Italian and Norwegian oil engineers and geologists have arrived in Texas, Oklahoma and Pennsylvania to learn how to extract gas from layers of a black rock called shale. Companies are leasing huge tracts of land across Europe for exploration. And oil executives are gathering rocks and scrutinizing Asian and North African geological maps in search of other fields.
 The global drilling rush is still in its early stages. But energy analysts are already predicting that shale could reduce Europe's dependence on Russian natural gas. They said they believed that gas reserves in many countries could increase over the next two decades, comparable with the 40 percent increase in the United States in recent years. 
 ''It's a breakout play that is going to identify gigantic resources around the world,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, an energy expert at Rice University. ''That will change the geopolitics of natural gas.''
 More extensive use of natural gas could aid in reducing global warming, because gas produces fewer emissions of greenhouse gases than either oil or coal. China and India, which have growing economies that rely heavily on coal for electricity, appear to have large potential for production of shale gas. Larger gas reserves would encourage developing countries to convert more of their transportation fleets to use natural gas rather than gasoline.
 Shale is a sedimentary rock rich in organic material that is found in many parts of the world. It was of little use as a source of gas until about a decade ago, when American companies developed new techniques to fracture the rock and drill horizontally. 
 Because so little drilling has been done in shale fields outside of the United States and Canada, gas analysts have made a wide array of estimates for how much shale gas could be tapped globally. Even the most conservative estimates are enormous, projecting at least a 20 percent increase in the world's known reserves of natural gas.
 One recent study by IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting group, calculated that the recoverable shale gas outside of North America could turn out to be equivalent to 211 years' worth of natural gas consumption in the United States at the present level of demand, and maybe as much as 690 years. The low figure would represent a 50 percent increase in the world's known gas reserves, and the high figure, a 160 percent increase. 
 The projections suggest that the new method of producing gas ''is the biggest energy innovation of the decade,'' said Daniel Yergin, chairman of the Cambridge consulting group. ''And the amazing thing is there was no grand opening ceremony for it. It just snuck up.''
 Over the last five years, production of gas from shale has spread across wide swaths of Texas, Louisiana and Pennsylvania. All the new production has produced a glut of gas in the United States, helping to drive down gas prices and utility costs.
 Now American companies are looking abroad for lucrative shale fields in countries hungry for more energy. They are focusing particularly on Europe, where gas prices are sometimes twice what they are in the United States, and large shale beds are located close to some cities.
 Exxon Mobil has drilled a few exploratory wells in Germany in recent months. Devon Energy is teaming up with Total, the French oil company, seeking approval to drill in France. ConocoPhillips announced recently that it had signed an agreement with a subsidiary of a small British firm to explore a million acres in the Baltic Basin of Poland.
 Early estimates of recoverable European shale gas resources range up to 400 trillion cubic feet, less than half the industry's estimates of what is recoverable in the United States. But European energy executives say they are excited about the prospects because the Continent's conventional gas reserves are too small to meet demand. 
 ''It is obvious to everybody that it has huge potential,'' said Oivind Reinertsen, president of StatoilHydro USA and Mexico, a Norwegian company with growing shale interests. ''You see a lot of land-grabbing by different companies in Europe, potentially spreading to the Far East, China and India.'' 
 Donald I. Hertzmark, a consultant who advises multinational oil companies on gas projects, said that in a decade or so, the new shale gas resources would improve Europe's ability to withstand any future reduction in Russian pipeline shipments. In 2006 and again last winter, Russia cut off natural gas deliveries shipped through Ukraine because of disputes between the two countries, causing shortages around Europe. 
 European companies are buying large interests in shale fields in the United States, partly to supply the American market, but also to learn the specialized mapping and drilling techniques required for shale gas.
 Several of the European companies have entered into partnerships with smaller American companies. ENI of Italy paid $280 million in May for a stake in a 13,000-acre gas field north of Fort Worth operated by Quicksilver Resources. ENI has a crew of four engineers, a geologist and a geophysicist in Texas to learn from Quicksilver personnel.
 One of the biggest marriages is between Chesapeake Energy of Oklahoma City and its strategic partner StatoilHydro. 
 Seeking cash, Chesapeake agreed to sell Statoil a large stake in its Marcellus shale holdings, centered in Pennsylvania, for $3.9 billion last November. The two companies are looking at shale fields in China, India, Australia and other countries. Seven Statoil employees are working in Oklahoma and Pennsylvania learning to map and fracture shale, and calculate shale gas pressures, and more are coming.
 ''We know the shale is out there,'' said Lars Erik Oino, a Statoil geologist working at Chesapeake headquarters here, as he rubbed hydrochloric acid on a shale sample to test its mineral makeup. ''This could have a huge impact on the European energy situation.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas Johansen, left, Lars Erik Oino and Elvind Vamraak tested shale samples at Chesapeake Energy in Oklahoma City.
 Engineers are learning how to extract natural gas from shale, a rock rich in organic material. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GRAIN RESERVES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%)

COMPANY: IHS INC (63%); CAMBRIDGE CONSULTING GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NORWAY (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



251 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2184 words

HEADLINE: Abortion Foes Tell of Their Journey to the Streets

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: OWOSSO, Mich. 

 BODY:
Action means many things to abortion opponents. Lobbyists and fund-raisers fight for the cause in marble hallways; volunteers at crisis pregnancy centers try to dissuade the pregnant on cozy sofas. 
 Then there are the protesters like James Pouillon, who was shot dead here last month while holding an anti-abortion sign outside a high school. A martyr to some, an irritant to others, Mr. Pouillon in death has become a blessing of sorts for the loosely acquainted activists who knew him as a friend: proof that abortion doctors are not the only ones under duress, proof that protests matter, and a spark for more action.
''Jim suffered the persecution for us,'' said Dan Brewer, who recalls swearing at Mr. Pouillon during one of his one-man protests in the '90s, only to join him later after becoming a born-again Christian. ''Now we just have to go out and do it.'' 
 A national tribute is already planned. Anti-abortion groups are calling on protesters to stand outside schools with signs that depict abortion on Nov. 24 in 40 to 50 cities nationwide. 
 Some who plan to take part, like Chet Gallagher, a former Las Vegas police officer, have been answering such calls for decades; he first got involved in the '80s, when every month seemed to bring a new ''rescue,'' another chance to lock arms with fellow Christians and block access to an abortion clinic. 
 Others have arrived at the cause after experiencing personal traumas -- in the case of Deborah Anderson, an abusive childhood and then an unwanted pregnancy -- while still more fell into it through personal connections. 
 Together, these street activists make up an assertive minority of a few thousand people within the larger anti-abortion movement. Neither the best financed nor largest element in the mix, they are nonetheless the only face of anti-abortion that many Americans see. Indeed, persistent provocation is their defining attribute: day after day on street corners from California to Massachusetts, they stand like town criers, calling to women walking into abortion clinics, or waving graphic signs as disturbing as they are impossible to ignore. 
 Their ranks are more infused with emotion -- they would say commitment -- than top-down discipline.
 Ziad Munson, a sociologist at Lehigh University who has interviewed hundreds of abortion opponents, said street protesters rarely moved into other areas of the movement and tended to work alone or in smaller groups. Even in cases when they form large and influential organizations, it is sometimes difficult to get beyond the culture of passionate dispute. 
 To critics, like Nancy Keenan, president of Naral Pro-Choice America, these protesters look like bullies bent on harassment. Among those who share their views but not their tactics, street activists have been marginalized as attention hogs who prefer to attract outrage rather than inspiring compassion. 
 In the case of Mr. Pouillon, that outrage may have led to death. The police said the man charged in the killing, Harlan J. Drake, a local truck driver, was bothered by the signs Mr. Pouillon showed children as they came to school. The day he was shot, Mr. Pouillon was showing a mangled fetus, part of an almost daily effort to put abortion into the minds of his neighbors. ''It's all about the eyes,'' he used to say to fellow demonstrators. ''It's all about the eyes.'' 
 But as the personal stories of Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Brewer and Ms. Anderson suggest, the motivations of many protesters are more complicated. They see themselves as righteous curbside critics, prophets warning the world with what they describe as the horrific truth no one wants to see. They have endured insults, threats and even estrangement from their families because they have found what nearly every activist craves: conviction, camaraderie and conflict.
 The Police Officer: From Civil Law to Biblical
 Chet Gallagher did not plan to join the blockade at the abortion clinic in Atlanta when he traveled there 21 years ago. But when he saw the passion of so many Christians outside the clinic, he said, he could not resist: he ended up in jail for 11 days, with James Pouillon and 700 others. 
 Three months later, Operation Rescue, the umbrella anti-abortion group, arrived in Las Vegas, where Mr. Gallagher was a police officer. He refused to arrest protesters, and when his sergeant suspended him, he joined the ''rescuers.'' 
 ''I learned something that changed my life,'' Mr. Gallagher said. ''It wasn't civil disobedience; it was biblical obedience.'' 
 Christian fervor nourishes anti-abortion activism like little else. Church groups nationwide regularly ask Mr. Gallagher to speak because he chose his spiritual beliefs over the law. Bible quotations appear on posters and on motor homes that have become traveling billboards, and in conversation they serve as evidentiary support, like statistics. 
 This is a particularly American brand of faith: confrontational and action oriented. The most cited verses come not from the Gospels detailing the life of Jesus Christ but from the Old Testament prophets. Mr. Gallagher said he was inspired by Jeremiah 7, where the Lord says Israel's ''people, animals, trees, and crops will be consumed by the unquenchable fire of my anger.''
 Nancy Keenan, president of Naral Pro-Choice America, said she worried that the emphasis on judgment provides tacit approval for violence, like the recent killing of Dr. George R. Tiller, an abortion provider in Kansas. 
 But Mr. Gallagher, 60, a white-bearded father of six, disagreed. He said Christianity must be emphasized because churches are the only institutions with the power to put abortion clinics out of business. Like Mr. Pouillon, who often protested outside congregations on Sunday mornings, Mr. Gallagher said far too many Christians nodded, but did not act. 
 ''It really can end,'' he said of abortion, ''if all the Christians just went out there for seven days in a row to tell the truth peacefully.''
 As for the more aggressive tactics he employs, like bringing protests to the neighborhoods where abortion doctors live, he said they were a product of faith, economics and politics.
 Faith, because he said he believed abortion doctors deserve to be shamed; economics because that shame might motivate them to do other work; and politics because the era of rescues ended in 1994, after President Bill Clinton signed the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act. 
 The law made it a felony to use ''force, threat of force or physical obstruction'' to prevent someone from providing or receiving reproductive health services. ''That required us to use some other strategies,'' said Mr. Gallagher, who left the police force shortly after and is now director of operations for Operation Save America in Las Vegas. 
 Among other things, the clinic law led to the proliferation of large anti-abortion signs with graphic pictures of mutilated fetuses. Mr. Gallagher said he believed that everyone, including children, should see them. ''I know I offend a lot of people,'' he said. ''But I've talked to mothers who said, 'Because you were there with those signs I decided to have that baby.' '' 
 Even in protesters' families, not everyone agrees with the approach. Mr. Gallagher said his wife divorced him in 1989 after revealing she had three abortions before they met. They remarried in 1991, but Mr. Gallagher said some of their six children had gone years without speaking to him. 
 ''We know this is a real war and we have to fight it,'' he said. ''Some of our families suffered as a result. I wish I could say it was different but it's not.''
 The Survivor: An Early Gusto for a Fight
 Deborah Anderson, 62, a professional test-driver for Ford with the style of a no-nonsense grandmother, introduced herself as ''someone who should have been dead.'' 
 ''I'm an unwanted child,'' she said, standing at a vigil for James Pouillon with an anti-abortion poster peeling from overuse. ''My mother couldn't find a back-alley abortionist, so she gave me up for adoption.''
 She was 18 months old. Her sister was 4, and their adoptive mother, Ms. Anderson and her sister said in interviews, turned out to be abusive. 
 Childhood in their suburb of Detroit was defined by broken bones beneath frilly dresses, she said. The girls ran away when they could, but when friends or the local priest visited, Ms. Anderson said, their mother chained them to poles in the basement. 
 ''I learned to bite and kick and scream,'' she said. 
 That gusto for the fight is a highly valued trait in protester circles. Mr. Pouillon earned kudos for standing with anti-abortion signs even while attached to an oxygen tank. Ms. Anderson also told stories of long, cold protests, insults and jail (after being arrested at Notre Dame in May when President Obama spoke). 
 Her son, Jason Anderson, 35, an automobile engineer, said that as a teenager, he learned to take pride in his mother's passion when he saw her enduring abuse for holding a graphic sign. ''She's really trying to open up people's minds to the horrific nature of this,'' he said.
 The most repeated anecdotes involve abortions averted. Ms. Anderson recalled what she said was her first triumph. It was the early '80s. After becoming pregnant with a boyfriend while separated from her husband -- and deciding to have the baby despite friends' advice to abort, she said -- she was a single mother with a bumper sticker on her Chrysler Fifth Avenue that said ''the heart beats at 24 days for an unborn child.'' 
 One day in a parking lot near her home, Ms. Anderson said, a woman came up to her and said she had been on her way to get an abortion when she saw that simple statement and changed her mind. ''There was a 2-year-old in the back seat,'' Ms. Anderson said. 
 At her home in Memphis, Mich., other examples followed: of two girls from Ohio who left an abortion clinic and, she said, told Ms. Anderson that her presence had persuaded them had not gone through with it; of a young man who knocked on her door in the dead of night, after seeing anti-abortion signs in her window. 
 Then Ms. Anderson pulled out a black cassette recorder. Sitting on a red couch a few feet from two abortion posters, she replayed what she said was a voicemail message from several years ago. An older woman, sounding unsure and emotional, said she wanted to thank her because ''you was at the clinic, and really helped my daughter.'' 
 Ms. Anderson smiled. ''I can't tell you how many babies have been saved because of abortion protesters outside the abortion mills,'' she said. ''That's what it's all about.''
 The Friend: Drawn to the Cause
 Within months of becoming a born-again Christian, Dan Brewer says, he knew he had to make things right. When he saw James Pouillon on a corner in Owosso one day, he stopped his car, walked over and asked forgiveness for having accosted him. 
 ''I put my head on his shoulder and cried,'' he said. 
 It was the beginning of what would become an alliance. Ziad Munson interviewed abortion opponents for a book, ''The Making of Pro-Life Activists,'' and said most people entered the movement through social connections and only later developed an ideological commitment. 
 Mr. Brewer exemplifies the process. He did not have much passion for the cause early on, he said, but the resistance and support he experienced alongside Mr. Pouillon led him to more research and activism.
 He said there was something rebellious, something American, about standing up against abortion. In the past, he had occasionally held signs with bible verses emphasizing love, but they did not lead to as many conversations. 
 Or conflicts -- like the time a man drove up on the sidewalk, running over Mr. Brewer's sign and forcing him to jump out of the way, he said. 
 ''I don't want to say the conflict is fun, because it isn't,'' said Mr. Brewer, 40, an easygoing state pool champion with an earring high in his left ear. ''But the interaction is fun, to be able to talk to people who take the time to listen to what you have to say.''
 A layoff last year from his job at a boat factory pushed him further. He joined Mr. Pouillon about three times a week, he said, partly for the camaraderie and partly -- like other anti-abortion protesters -- because he had come to see attention and opposition as proof of impact. 
 He just never thought it could turn deadly. Nor did his son Cameron. 
 Now 16, the second oldest of Mr. Brewer's five children, including a foster child, Cameron was at school when the shooting happened at a nearby corner. He ran there, fearing for his father, instead finding a bloodied friend. ''I got down next to him,'' Cameron said. ''I counted four bullet holes.'' 
 The Brewers said they did not expect more violence. And like hundreds of others, they said they planned to keep Mr. Pouillon's efforts alive. Mr. Brewer may not be there as often, because he is taking nursing classes, but Cameron said he was eager to fill the void. 
 ''I thought it was cool that he did what he did,'' he said. ''Now that he's dead, it makes you want to do it more.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MCGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); RELIGION (76%); SOCIOLOGY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



252 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Igniting The Growth Of Jobs

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: San Francisco 

 BODY:
 Think of this recession as a monstrous hurricane that swept through the job market and is still wreaking havoc. The latest unemployment rate for California is a knee-buckling 12.2 percent, the highest since World War II.
 The job market nationwide is the worst it has been in 70 years, noted Robert Reich, the former labor secretary, during one of several conversations that I had with him over the past week. He dismissed the upbeat talk of ''green shoots'' sprouting in the devastated economic landscape and the dreamy notion that recovery is no longer just around the corner, it's here.
 The economy may have recovered technically, he said, ''but this is not a real recovery.'' 
 The Obama administration's stimulus package has mitigated the damage, but it was not big enough or targeted enough toward job creation to halt the continued hemorrhaging in employment. (Incredibly, some 40,000 teachers have lost their jobs over the past year, according to the Center for Economic and Policy Research.)
 Without jobs, you don't have a genuine recovery. And with consumers tapped out and business investment hamstrung, it's up to the government to develop creative approaches and make the investments necessary to start putting people back to work in large numbers.
 There are plenty of serious proposals available that are both doable and affordable.
 Mr. Reich, who teaches at the University of California, Berkeley, is among those who favor a tax credit for small businesses that create jobs. This is tricky. Policy makers have to make sure that the credit is given only for net new hires, as companies will attempt to get a tax break for hires they would have made anyway.
 ''Under normal circumstances,'' said Mr. Reich, ''I would never recommend this. It's a very blunt instrument. But these are not normal circumstances.''
 A virtue of the tax credit, which reportedly is being considered by the administration, is that it could get significant Republican support.
 Another promising approach is substantially increased federal aid to state and local governments, above and beyond what is already occurring. Local governments from one coast to the other are facing budget meltdowns and are slashing services and personnel. 
 ''When states cut programs or raise taxes, that slows the economy down,'' said Lawrence Mishel, president of the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''You can prevent that if you give them aid, and that means state employees, and employees of local governments that depend on state assistance, don't get laid off.''
 That's the beginning of an important ripple effect that spreads to the private sector jobs in firms that do business with state and local governments. The federal aid can help keep these folks on the job and contributing to the economy until a real turnaround occurs.
 ''We estimate that half the jobs that are created by fiscal relief to the states are private-sector jobs,'' said Mr. Mishel. ''No one thinks about that.''
 More controversial but increasingly important is the idea of direct government job creation. The recession has absolutely crushed employment opportunities for unskilled, undereducated young people -- not just in big cities and rural areas, but in suburban communities as well. Without direct government intervention, the recession is never going to end for them.
 During the first half of this year in Illinois, to take one wretched example, just one in four black men in the age group of 20 through 24 had a job.
 Nationally during that period, according to the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston, ''the employment rate of males 16-19, 20-24, and 25-29 were at their lowest values over the past 61 years for which national employment data are available.'' That's for men of all ethnic groups. 
 ''The past,'' as William Faulkner told us, ''is not dead. It's not even past.'' The lessons of the Works Progress Administration and the Civilian Conservation Corps of the 1930s are right in front of us, ready to be studied, analyzed, updated and applied to the present-day needs of the country.
 If we're serious about getting the U.S. back on track economically, we will have to take our heads out of the sand at some point with regard to the nation's infrastructure. America has to be rebuilt, modernized and re-energized -- from its water and sewer systems to its schools to the smart grid and the alternative energy sources that so many are talking about and beyond. That's where the jobs are for the long term, and that's the only route to a truly flourishing future.
 These investments would be costly and require vision. Seeing them through would take an enormous collective effort by politicians and the public alike. But some variation on these themes is absolutely essential if the U.S. is to pull itself out of the economic quicksand and its long-term, potentially very tragic consequences. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



253 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: It's Time for the Annual Task of Choosing Your Insurance Plan

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
IT'S that time of year again. In a few weeks, if you have health benefits through work, you will probably receive e-mail messages and brochures from your employer about your benefit options for 2010. 
 Once again you will have to decide whether you want to switch to a new health plan. Or finally enroll in a flexible spending account. Or take that biometric test your company has been urging you toward. (More on that below.) 
 If, like many people, you typically default to your current options, I have one word of advice: Don't. Health insurance costs will be higher, and doing nothing could potentially cost you hundreds of dollars. 
 My job today is to highlight the main trends this year in employee health benefits. Over the next few weeks, my colleague Walecia Konrad and I plan to delve into more specific elements of open enrollment, including the pros and cons of high-deductible health plans and how to select a new health insurer. 
 This year, as you face higher prices on insurance premiums, brand-name prescriptions and more, your employer will be nudging you to take more interest in managing your health and your health insurance. Sometimes those nudges might feel more like shoves.
 What you probably won't see are many major changes to your health plan's overall design. That is mainly because employers are waiting to see what shakes out from the health care debate in Washington before they take any big cost-saving steps, says Mike Miele, president of the benefits consulting firm, GBS Healthcare Analytics in Princeton, N.J. 
 But here's a rundown on the changes you probably can expect. 
 YOU'LL PAY MORE -- AGAIN Health care costs keep going up and up, and the slow economy and rocky job market have not helped. 
 Last year, the recession jolted many employees into get-well-quick frenzies. Fearing layoffs -- and the loss of health coverage -- employees got check-ups, teeth cleanings and various long-deferred procedures at a higher-than-normal pace. 
 That use-or-lose stampede translated into a spike in medical costs for employers -- which they are now passing on to those still fortunate enough to have jobs, according to Joan Smyth, a principal with Mercer, a health and benefits consulting firm. 
 If you are in an H.M.O. -- a health maintenance organization -- or P.P.O., a preferred-provider organization, your out-of-pocket costs, including premiums and co-payments, will probably rise by about 10 percent in the coming year. 
 In addition, many companies will raise deductibles by $50 to $100 -- some even more.
 DEPENDENTS? DEPENDS ... Even if your spouse or other dependents have been on your health plan, be sure to look for changes in the coverage rules. Some companies are raising premiums for working spouses -- or even eliminating coverage for spouses and dependents. 
 FEWER CHOICES Many large companies with employees in a number of states are consolidating their health plans into one or two national carriers, rather than various regional ones. 
 In the same vein, some companies will jettison inefficient H.M.O.'s and either replace them with more efficient ones or get rid of them altogether, replacing them with lower-cost plans, either P.P.O.'s or high-deductible plans. 
 PUSHING HIGH-DEDUCTIBLES More employers will be nudging workers toward high-deductible health plans because they cost less -- about 20 percent less than a P.P.O. or an H.M.O. -- and they force employees to take more responsibility for their health care. 
 Here's a mini-refresher on how high-deductible plans work: Typically, they have a high annual deductible, of $2,500 to as much as $5,000. Many employers may put $500 to $1,000 into a health savings account for you to offset that high limit. 
 If you spend all the money in the health savings account, you then have to dip into your own pocket to pay your medical bills until you exhaust the deductible. But if you don't spend the money, it stays in the account for next year's expenses. 
 To push workers toward high-deductible plans, employers may raise the premiums on P.P.O.'s and H.M.O.'s even more than the underlying cost increase might warrant.
 GOING GENERIC In another move to steer employees toward lower-cost health care, many employers will increase the co-payment on brand-name medications, while making generics more affordable. Some plans, in lieu of co-payments, may even require that you pay a percentage of the cost of brand-name drugs. 
 Let's say you now make a $30 co-payment when filling a Nexium or Lipitor prescription. Next year, your co-payment could rise to $40 -- or even higher if your plan requires you to pay a percentage of the actual cost. 
 At the same time, though, some plans may lower the cost of maintenance drugs (say, for asthma) that have been proved to reduce overall health costs, according to Tom Billet, a senior consultant at Watson Wyatt, a benefits consulting firm.
 WELLNESS AND MORE Prepare to be doctored. Employers are determined to make you healthier and, thereby, less expensive to insure. 
 ''Employers are not backing away from wellness programs,'' Mr. Billet said. ''They are a core component of their long-term strategy to control costs and improve productivity of their work force.'' 
 Your employer will probably suggest that you (and your spouse if she or he is covered on your plan) fill out a detailed health risk questionnaire, including your height and weight and your family history for several diseases. The company might even reward you with cash or some other incentive for doing so.
 Many employers are also strongly urging their workers to get biometric tests -- blood work-ups that identify whether a person is at risk for diseases like diabetes or atherosclerosis. 
 The results of these tests and exams are sent to your insurer or a third-party administrator, and your employer is not supposed to have access to the information. 
 BEWARE THE AUDIT As another cost-saving strategy, more companies are conducting audits to ensure that only eligible dependents are covered by their health plans. 
 You may get an e-mail message or letter that asks you to verify the ages of your children or the marital status of you and your covered spouse. Completing the audit may be as simple as calling an 800 number and answering some prompts, or it may be as complicated (and annoying) as sending in copies of birth and marriage certificates to your insurer. 
 Remember, most policies cover your children only until age 19, or 23 if they are in college. 
 Why are companies going to all this trouble? Audits routinely reveal that 5 to 8 percent of covered individuals are actually ineligible, according to Mr. Miele, who expects his audit business to double in 2010.
 Typically, the issue is one of confusion rather than fraud. ''Employers have not done a great job of explaining who is covered,'' says Mr. Miele, who adds that most of the people who get ''kicked out'' are college grads still living at home. You can also expect to see much more specific coverage guidelines in 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benefits personnel at Biogen Idec checking a brochure outlining options for this year's open-enrollment period. As costs rise, employees need to evaluate their health plan choices carefully. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TRENDS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BIOMETRICS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



254 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Terror Suspect Is Said to Have Gone to Pakistan With 2 From New York

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM and DAVID JOHNSTON; Majeed Babar, Alison Leigh Cowan and Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Najibullah Zazi, the airport shuttle bus driver charged in a Qaeda-connected bomb plot, traveled to Pakistan last year with two men he knew from the streets of New York City, a yellow-cab driver who took the test to become a city firefighter and a Queens College student majoring in economics, according to people briefed on the case.
 The two men, one of whom attended Flushing High School with Mr. Zazi, 24, have denied that they were involved with Al Qaeda or had any role in what prosecutors have said was a plot to build bombs using homemade explosives. Neither has been charged with a crime. 
 But the investigation into the alleged plot, which is being conducted by the Joint Terrorism Task Force and federal prosecutors in Brooklyn, has in some measure focused on the two men, Zarein Ahmedzay, 24, the cabdriver, and Adis Medunjanin, 25, who played high school football and graduated from Queens College in June.
 F.B.I. agents and police detectives assigned to the task force have searched their homes, questioned them at length in voluntary interviews and taken fingerprints from them, people briefed on the case have said. During the searches, investigators took cellphones and laptop computers, which family members said were later returned, and other items.
 Both men have also been kept under surveillance. 
 Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who in a briefing with reporters on Tuesday called the alleged plot ''one of the most serious terrorist threats to our country since Sept. 11, 2001,'' suggested that more arrests would soon be made in the case. 
 ''The investigation is pretty far along, and I think we've got a pretty good handle on who was involved,'' Mr. Holder said.
 The government has contended that Mr. Zazi traveled to Pakistan in August 2008 to participate in weapons and explosives training. It is unclear whether investigators have evidence that suggests his traveling companions joined him for that part of his trip.
 Mr. Medunjanin's lawyer, Robert C. Gottlieb, acknowledged that his client had undergone 14 hours of questioning by the F.B.I. before he was retained to represent him. Mr. Gottlieb would not discuss the questions the agents asked about Mr. Zazi.
 Mr. Ahmedzay could not be reached for comment, and it could not be determined whether he was being represented by a lawyer. However, a young woman who identified herself as one of his sisters but asked that her name not be used acknowledged that he went to Pakistan about the same time as Mr. Zazi did. But she said her brother traveled separately. ''We know we're innocent,'' she added.
 Another measure of investigators' interest in the two men could be found in an incident that some investigators have said forced them to begin executing search warrants and take their investigation public before they were ready.
 Police detectives assigned to the Intelligence Division showed photographs of the two men, along with a picture of Mr. Zazi and an unidentified man, to a Queens imam who had helped the police in the past, according to the cleric's lawyer, Ronald L. Kuby. The imam, Ahmad Wais Afzali, was later arrested on charges of making false statements and accused of warning Mr. Zazi that he was being sought by the authorities.
 Mr. Zazi, who was born in Afghanistan, was raised in Pakistan and lived in Queens for 10 years before moving to Denver in January, was ordered held without bail last month after he pleaded not guilty to a bombing conspiracy indictment of a single count. A detention memorandum filed in federal court detailed what prosecutors said was his effort to make homemade explosives and his drive from Colorado to New York.
 ''Zazi and others flew from Newark Liberty International Airport to Peshawar, Pakistan,'' the memo said, referring to the 2008 trip, without naming the others.
 While the details of Mr. Zazi's trip, and the training prosecutors say he admitted receiving, remain murky, the identity of the men who journeyed with him, and the fact that they are now under such intense scrutiny, begins to provide some outline of his activities and the scope of the inquiry, which stretches from Flushing to the Rockies to Pakistan.
 Much like Mr. Zazi, the two young men, at first glance, seem unlikely terror suspects. Mr. Ahmedzay took the civil service test to become a New York City firefighter in 2007, and while he is far down on the list, he remains an eligible candidate.
 Mr. Medunjanin played running back and wide receiver for the Flushing High School Red Devils, according to his coach for two years, Joseph Kaso, and graduated from Queens College in June with a major in economics.
 Mr. Kaso, who no longer coaches the team, seemed stunned to learn that his former player had come under scrutiny in a terrorism inquiry. 
 ''This pretty much is a shock, what I'm hearing here,'' he said Friday night. ''He was just like your average regular kid -- he was a really nice kid, pretty much a student, too.''
 Two young men at the Queens College Muslim Student Association said on Friday that he was a well-known and respected figure in the group's prayer room, where he came to worship two or three times a week.
 Wearing a long beard, Mr. Medunjanin was humble, quiet and highly regarded for his knowledge of Islam, said Umer Hassan, 20, a biology major.
 ''He would always be in here, never in the lounge,'' he said, indicating the prayer room. ''He was very religious.''
 At the same time, the two men said they found his religious devotion a bit intimidating.
 ''He was a good guy, but if he was here I would just come in and walk out,'' Mr. Hassan said. ''When you see someone that is so religious, you kind of feel bad and guilty that you're not.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); SEARCH WARRANTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (74%); FINGERPRINTING (74%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (71%); AL-QAEDA (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



255 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Author's Personal Forecast: Not Always Sunny, but Pleasantly Skeptical

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Barbara Ehrenreich wants to make clear that she is not a spoilsport.
 ''No one can call me a sourpuss,'' she declared. ''I have a big foot in the joy camp.''
 She is the author of ''Dancing in the Streets,'' a history of ''collective joy,'' she notes, and a lot of fun at parties. So her new book, ''Bright-sided: How the Relentless Promotion of Positive Thinking Has Undermined America,'' should not be mistaken for a curmudgeonly rant. It is serious social history.
 Many of the 17 books that Ms. Ehrenreich has written during the past three and half decades have taken her into alien worlds. In her fantastically successful 2001 book, ''Nickel and Dimed,'' for example, she details her experience of trying to get by on the salary of an unskilled, minimum-wage worker. By contrast, this newest volume is based on her stay in a world that she became intimately familiar with: the smiley-faced, pink-ribboned, positive-thinking culture that surrounds breast cancer patients. 
 Ms. Ehrenreich found out she had the disease in 2000, and the news left her dazed, fearful and, most of all, angry. What she found when she sought information and support, however, was cheerfulness, and that shocked her. 
 ''There were exhortations to be positive,'' Ms. Ehrenreich said. She had stopped for lunch recently in Manhattan's theater district after meeting with her publisher at Metropolitan Books, and before returning to Alexandria, Va., where she moved two years ago to be close to her daughter and grandchildren. Smartly dressed in pants and a sweater with black rectangular glasses that frame her blue eyes, Ms. Ehrenreich, 68, looks like someone who is content to be fashionable rather than fashion forward.
 The unrelenting message was ''that you had to be cheerful and accepting and that you would not recover unless you were,'' said Ms. Ehrenreich, who also writes frequently for The New York Times. Most infuriating, she added, was the advice to ''consider your cancer a gift.'' 
 Every rosy affirmation -- the advertisements for breast cancer teddy bears and other tchotchkes, the inspirational slogans (''When life hands out lemons, squeeze out a smile''), and the politically correct language (''victim'' and ''patient'' are avoided because they suggest passivity) -- sharpened her keen sense of outrage. 
 ''I have to say I took it personally,'' she said. At one point she wrote a rant on Komen.org, a Web site that focuses on breast cancer education and research, about her anger over environmental carcinogens, endless battles with insurance agencies, toxic treatments and ''sappy pink ribbons.'' She recalled a typical response to her post: ''You need to run, not walk, to get therapy. You can't get better without poisoning your system.''
 Her eyes widened at the memory. ''If I don't get better, it's my fault,'' she continued. ''It's a clever blame-the-victim sort of thing.''
 Ms. Ehrenreich underwent a mastectomy and chemotherapy and wore a wig to cover her hair loss during her book tour for ''Nickel and Dimed.'' 
 Over the next few years, however, she kept encountering the same smiling insistence elsewhere that a positive outlook itself was the solution to problems. It had infiltrated the large career-counseling industry that serves the unemployed; the Ivy League, where ''positive psychology'' has nested in the curriculum; the best-seller list, where ''The Secret'' has taken up residence; mega-churches run by evangelists; and conferences for motivational speakers. 
 Then the financial crisis hit. ''Wham,'' she said. ''It was so clear to me that it was connected.'' The relentlessly optimistic forecasts about subprime mortgages and endless increases in real estate values were the product of the positive-thinking culture. One of the fundamental tenets of the literature, Ms. Ehrenreich said, is to surround yourself with other positive thinkers and ''get rid of negative people.''
 ''We've been weeding out anybody capable of rational thinking, of realism,'' said Ms. Ehrenreich, a longtime activist in leftist politics. ''That was, for me, 'Wow!' ''
 Meanwhile, a background in science -- she has a Ph.D. in biology -- made Ms. Ehrenreich especially skeptical of pseudoscientific claims that positive thinkers often cite.
 In ''Bright-sided,'' she traces the roots of the nation's blithe sunniness to a reaction against Calvinist gloom and the limits of medical science in the first half of the 19th century. Starting with Phineas Parkhurst Quimby, perhaps one of the first American New Age faith healers, she draws a line to Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of Christian Science; the psychologist William James; Ralph Waldo Emerson; Norman Vincent Peale, who published ''The Power of Positive Thinking'' in 1952; and the toothy television minister Joel Osteen, who preaches the gospel of prosperity.
 To Ms. Ehrenreich, the reliance on one's personal disposition shifts attention from the larger social, political and economic forces behind poverty, unemployment and poor health care. ''It can't all be fixed by assertiveness training,'' she said wryly. 
 Ms. Ehrenreich found that the more she listened, the surlier she became. All that shiny optimism, she said, was ''like sitting in a warm bubble bath for too long.'' Luckily she found other churlish comrades, scholars and doctors who were similarly skeptical of undimmed positivity. 
 ''We began to call ourselves the Negatives,'' said Micki McGee, a sociologist at Fordham University and the author of ''Self-Help, Inc.: Makeover Culture in American Life.'' The group would meet on occasion and discuss their research and the news of the day. The thread of positive thinking that runs through self-help culture says, ''If you dream it and believe it, it becomes reality,'' Professor McGee explained. ''That kind of thinking contributes to the economic bubble that we just saw explode in enormous ways. Barbara's take on it is very important.'' 
 Richard Sloan, a professor of behavioral psychology at Columbia, is a more recent member of the Negatives. He has written at length about the absence of scientific evidence showing links between prayer and healing in his book ''Blind Faith: The Unholy Alliance Between Religion and Medicine.'' 
 ''There is some relatively recent evidence of the benefits of positive affect, but not the simplistic approach that is advocated by coaches that all you need to do is be happy,'' he said. ''There is no evidence that trying to put on a happy face makes a difference.'' Rather, those who are characteristically more optimistic may have an advantage over those who aren't, but, he said, ''you just can't change who you are very easily.'' 
 The Negatives are quick to note that they are positive about some things. Despair is not the only alternative to positive thinking, Ms. Ehrenreich maintains; a spiral of negativism can be just as bad as a positive one. She is, as Mr. Osteen would say, living her ''best life.''
 Still, if people insist on seeing her as a ''messenger of doom,'' she gracefully accepts the role: ''I will see what I can do to awaken us to this mass delusion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barbara Ehrenreich, at home in Virginia, examines the smiley-faced culture that surrounds breast cancer patients in her latest book, ''Bright-sided.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANA RAAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CANCER (89%); BREAST CANCER (88%); HISTORY (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); CARCINOGENS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (86%)

TITLE: Bright-sided: How the Relentless Promotion of Positive Thinking Has Undermined America (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



256 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: The Divided States of Health Care

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
Where do those without health insurance live?
 The Census Bureau sought to find that out, for the first time, in a survey taken last year and released in September. Over all, it found that 9.9 percent of children lack any health insurance, half the rate for adults under 65.
 But there was widespread variation in coverage. Children in Texas, the state with the least health insurance, are more than eight times as likely not to have it than children in Massachusetts, the state with the broadest coverage. 
 Those who lack health insurance now are far more likely to live in states that usually vote Republican -- the states whose senators and representatives are least likely to support a law to extend coverage.
 That would seem to indicate that Republican constituents are the ones who would most benefit from passage of universal health insurance coverage. But an analysis of Congressional districts within those states indicates that those without health insurance are much more likely to live in strongly Democratic Congressional districts. Many of those contain large minority populations with relatively low incomes.
 In the Congressional debate now going on, Democrats have generally supported plans aimed at assuring that all Americans have some sort of insurance, while nearly all Republicans have opposed the Democratic bills, raising concerns ranging from cost to worries that providing better health coverage for those who now lack it would diminish coverage for those who have it.
 The accompanying graphic divides the states into red states -- states that both voted for Senator John McCain in the last presidential election and are represented by two Republican senators -- and blue states, which have two Democratic senators and voted for President Obama. The purple states are the ones that split their ballots in the presidential and Senate elections.
 The figures show that residents of blue states are far more likely to have health insurance than are residents of red states, with residents of purple states in the middle.
 The figures on insurance cover both private insurance and public insurance, including Medicaid, which is available to poor people. Since nearly all people over 65 years of age have Medicare insurance, those over 65 are excluded from the statistics shown.
 Another way of looking at the figures is to imagine two Senates -- one chosen by the 25 states where residents are more likely to have health insurance, and the other chosen by the 25 states where there is less insurance.
 The Senate from the states with less insurance would have 30 Republicans and 20 Democrats. But the one from the states with more health insurance would have a 40-to-10 Democratic majority. 
 The District of Columbia, although not a state and unable to elect senators, is listed as a blue state because it generally votes for Democrats. The two independent senators -- Bernard Sanders of Vermont and Joe Lieberman of Connecticut -- caucus with the Democrats and are counted as Democrats.
 There are a number of reasons for a greater amount of health insurance in blue states. Some of those states have relatively generous child insurance programs, most notably Massachusetts, which has nine of the 10 Congressional districts with the most health insurance. (The 10th is in Hawaii, another blue state.) Some Democratic states have also been more generous in setting Medicaid coverage standards, thus providing more coverage for people with low-paying jobs that do not provide insurance.
 Of the 10 Congressional districts with the least health insurance, seven are in Texas, two in California and one in Florida. Nine of those districts are largely black or Hispanic, and are represented by Democrats who faced little if any Republican opposition in the last election.
 While heavily Democratic districts often have less insurance, the red states tend to have less insurance than other states even without including those districts. Of the 150 Congressional districts with the most health insurance, only three are in red states -- one each in Alabama, Tennessee and Kansas. Another 25 are in purple states, with the rest in states that consistently vote Democratic.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Who Lacks Insurance? Percentage uninsured in each age group. (Sources: Census Department, Almanac of American Politics) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CENSUS (78%); CAUCUSES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); MEDICARE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (54%); BERNIE SANDERS (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); JOE LIEBERMAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



257 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 SCIENTIST AT NUCLEAR CENTER ARRESTED FOR TERRORIST TIES
 The French authorities have arrested a physicist who worked for years at CERN, the nuclear research center in Switzerland, on suspicion of links to al Qaeda's affiliate in North Africa, the center said. PAGE A4 
 ECUADOR CASE GROWS FOGGIER 
 The multibillion-dollar legal case between Amazon peasants and Chevron over oil spillage in Ecuador's rain forest keeps unfolding more like a mystery thriller than a battle of briefs. PAGE A4 
 LANDSLIDES IN PHILIPPINES
 More than 160 people have died after landslides caused by Typhoon Parma buried dozens of houses in the northern Philippines, officials said. PAGE A5 
 PLANE CRASH IN HAITI KILLS 11
 Eleven United Nations peacekeepers were killed when their surveillance plane crashed into a mountainside in Haiti during a routine patrol, United Nations officials said. PAGE A6 
 JAPAN AND S. KOREA MEET
 The leaders of South Korea and Japan added a new demand to their proposal for North Korea to halt its nuclear program, and vowed to enforce sanctions. PAGE A7 
 GENERAL SUBMITS REQUEST
 Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the top commander in Afghanistan, presented his request for more troops directly to President Obama via a video feed from Kabul beamed into the Situation Room in the White House. PAGE A10 
 Obituaries
 JOHN DAIDO LOORI, 78
 A photographer whose realization that taking a picture mirrored the instant of spiritual enlightenment inspired him to start an influential Zen monastery in the Catskills. PAGE A21 
 National
 TRIAL NEARS FOR STUDENT WHO DISRUPTED OIL BIDS
 A broad debate with legal, political and environmental threads is unfolding about Tim DeChristopher, 27, who made bids at a federal auction of oil and gas leases hoping to disrupt the process. PAGE A11 
 SOTOMAYOR IS NEW, NOT SHY
 Justice Sonia Sotomayor quickly established herself this week as a significant force in Supreme Court arguments, asking clipped, pointed questions. Supreme Court Memo by Adam Liptak. PAGE A11 
 PENNSYLVANIA ENDS IMPASSE
 Ending a 101-day stalemate, Pennsylvania lawmakers sent a $27.8 billion state budget to Gov. Ed Rendell. PAGE A12 
 WHAT WILL OLYMPIA DO?
 The Senate Finance Committee's coming vote on a bill to overhaul the health care system and the unknown stance of Senator Olympia J. Snowe have set off a new round of ''What Will Olympia Do?'' PAGE A13 
 SPLIT OVER GAY RIGHTS MARCH
 A march planned for Sunday in Washington is exposing divisions among gay rights activists as they consider whether to continue advocating for gains state by state, or push for federal action. PAGE A14 
 2 DIE AT SPA IN ARIZONA
 Two people died and at least 16 more were hospitalized after they fell ill for unknown reasons while sitting in a sweat lodge at a New Age retreat center in Arizona, the authorities said. PAGE A14 
 New York
 2 REPUBLICANS ON THE TRAIL, RUN THE OLD-FASHIONED WAY
 The Republican candidates for public advocate and city comptroller are given no chance. Still, they go it alone, giving speeches and shaking hands, one by one. PAGE A17
 Business
 EUROPE EXITS FINANCIAL CRISIS IN SLOW LANE ON REFORMS
 Europe is emerging from the global financial crisis without the political will to tackle longstanding economic challenges, according to many experts. PAGE B1 
 HEALTH CARE VARIES BY STATE
 A Census Bureau survey found that people who lack health insurance are far more likely to live in states that usually vote for Republicans, who are least likely to support a law to extend coverage. PAGE B1 
 PANEL SAYS PLAN FALLS SHORT
 An oversight panel criticized the Obama administration's program to combat home foreclosures, saying it would, ''in the best case,'' prevent ''fewer than half of the predicted foreclosures.'' PAGE B1 
 HAVE BANKS NO SHAME?
 Banks are lobbying furiously to kill a proposal for a consumer protection agency. And even if the agency is set up, the industry is hoping to pervert its purpose, Joe Nocera writes. Talking Business. PAGE B1 
 Arts
 THE NEWEST OLDEST ANCESTOR HAS ARRIVED
 Ardi, at 4.4 million years old, was introduced to the world as the oldest hominid on the block. She makes her popular-culture debut in ''Discovering Ardi'' on the Discovery Channel. A review by Mike Hale. PAGE C1
 FRAMING A THIRST FOR ENERGY
 The photographer Mitch Epstein's six-year exploration of the production of electrical power -- ''American Power'' -- will be published in book form later this month. PAGE C1 BROADWAY'S NEW FINALE
 Post-performance talk-backs between audiences and the actors are increasingly common on Broadway, and some producers are experimenting with the format. PAGE C1
 Sports
 KEY PLAYER FOR U.S. TEAM IS A SPECTATOR IN ENGLAND
 Jozy Altidore, 19, remains a vital part of the United States team, but his sporadic appearances for his English Premier League club, Hull City, could affect his preparations for next year's World Cup. PAGE D5 
 PHILLIES PICK MARTINEZ
 Philadelphia has picked Pedro Martinez to start Game 3 of their National League division series against the Colorado Rockies. PAGE D5 
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A19 
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR PHYSICS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LANDSLIDES (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); OIL & GAS LEASES (76%); TYPHOONS (76%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); OIL SPILLS (71%); RAIN FORESTS (71%); MOUNTAINS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); BUDGETS (61%); HEALTH CARE (60%); LGBT RIGHTS (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); EUROPEAN LABORATORY FOR PARTICLE PHYSICS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (67%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (51%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (50%); ED RENDELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ECUADOR (94%); HAITI (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (91%); FRANCE (88%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



258 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Narrowed in August

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit shrank in August as oil imports fell and American businesses sent more automobiles and industrial goods to foreign markets, the government reported on Friday. 
 The trade deficit, which measures the gap between the value of American imports and exports, dropped to $30.7 billion. The Commerce Department's report on trade provided another hint that global markets were waking up after a sharp downturn, and that export growth could add to the country's total economic output in the final months of the year. 
 Economists had expected the trade deficit to widen to $33 billion in August, after growing to $31.9 billion in July.
 Over all, the total volume of goods and services imported and exported showed no dramatic change from a month earlier. Exports rose by $200 million to $128.2 billion, and imports fell by $900 million, to $159.8 billion.
 The level of trade between the United States and the rest of the world has been picking up since the spring, as oil prices have rebounded from their winter lows of $33 a barrel and demand for consumer products and big industrial goods slowly returns.
 ''The beneficial effect of lower imports ought to quickly fade from that seen recently,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, said in a research note. ''At the same time, exports will receive a boost from better economic conditions abroad.'' 
 It remains to be seen how the falling value of the dollar will affect trade as the economy recovers. While the administration -- most recently, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner -- has voiced support of a strong dollar, a less-valuable currency could help give American manufacturers a competitive edge by making their products cheaper overseas.
 This week, the value of the dollar has fallen to its lowest point in a year as investors look for higher returns in other markets and worry about rising government debt in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



259 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Getting Hired, Never a Picnic, Is Increasingly a Trial

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT has happened to so many job seekers I know. They've sent out their dozens -- maybe hundreds -- of resumes and finally get the call to come in for an interview. They're asked back for a second round. Sometimes there's even a third call. They've met practically everyone in the company. They don't have just a foot in the door, they have their whole body.
 Or so it seems. Suddenly all goes quiet. In a week or two, or a month or two, they get a message, if they're lucky, telling them that someone else was picked for the job. If not, it's just deadly silence. 
 ''I am currently waiting to hear back from two positions,'' said Katie Murphy, who has been looking for a job in public relations in New York for almost a year. ''One I've now interviewed with four times, they've offered me a contracted three-month position, but I've yet to receive an official offer. And they've just asked to do another interview.'' 
 While there is no hard data, recruiters and academics who follow such trends agree that more people are being asked to do more interviews before being offered a position. They also say it has become ever more common to ask prospective employees to work temporarily for a few months, with the possibility of a permanent job at the end.
 ''Hiring managers are increasingly prone to shopping,'' said Todd Safferstone, managing director of the Corporate Executive Board, a research company. ''The perception is that there's lot of great talent out there, and even if the person across the table is great, there might be someone else even better.''
 While the current recession may have intensified the trend, the hiring process had already become more protracted over the last few decades for a number of reasons, said Lawrence Katz, a professor of economics at Harvard University.
 Human resource departments have become more professional, he said, and employers now need to diversify and justify their hiring processes to meet affirmative action and civil rights laws. Technology has also made it easier and less expensive for companies to conduct background checks and personality tests, Professor Katz said.
 But there is little doubt that the current gloomy economic climate -- with job seekers outnumbering openings six to one -- makes it more likely that companies will think long and hard before hiring.
 ''We're definitely putting people through more paces than ever before,'' said Michelle Robinovitz, a recruiter for AGH, a midsize accounting firm in Atlanta. ''In better times, we did one or two interviews. Now we really want to make sure someone will fit and we do a minimum of four interviews.'' 
 I hear stories all the time. A friend of mine in publishing was one of 100 people interviewed for a position. She got the job about five months after her first interview. I ran into an acquaintance recently who told me that he had had eight interviews for a position and was still waiting to hear. 
 Erin Slattery, for instance, is looking for a position as an account executive after leaving her job in Kansas City to move to Arlington, Va., to be with her boyfriend. She said she had been searching for almost a year and interviewed with a public relations firm twice in July. She was waiting to be called back for Round 3 when she heard the post had been filled. She is still hoping another position may open up at the company.
 ''The hardest part is that it never leaves your mind,'' she said of the endless waiting. ''Every single morning and every single night, I think: 'Will I hear from them? Should I call them? Should I wait?' You don't want to come off as desperate, but you want to make sure that you're still on their mind. It's like dating -- do I follow the rules, or am I scaring them away?''
 While she looked for something permanent, she decided to do some temporary work, and even that had a more extensive screening process than she expected.
 ''I had to do two phone interviews and one in-person interview to land my current temp position,'' she said. 
 From the outside, the hiring process can seem arbitrary and even cruel. But it's important to see where companies are coming from, said Alec Levenson, a research scientist with the Center for Effective Organizations at the University of Southern California.
 ''In an up market, say the late 1990s, the cost of making a bad hiring decision was low,'' he said. ''The company could be a lot more cavalier about hiring, because if the worker doesn't fit, the chances are that he'll move on soon.'' But with jobs scarce, an employee is more likely to cling to a job, even if it isn't the best. So the employer has to take the steps to fire that person, which usually involves a lengthy documentation process, warnings and meetings. It consumes a lot of time and energy, Professor Levenson said.
 Ms. Robinovitz said her company, like most nowadays, was very lean and no longer had the capacity to absorb a new employee who turned out to be mediocre.
 In addition, fear of wrongful termination lawsuits makes firms more leery of hiring someone who may not seem perfect. 
 ''There's been gradual erosion over the past 30 years of pure employment-at-will as more and more people have come under employment protection laws,'' Professor Levenson said. ''It's become more and more difficult for companies to cavalierly hire and fire. Even if 100 people are eligible to sue, only one or two might, but that's all it takes'' to scare a company.
 That's one of the reasons hiring people on a three-month trial basis -- usually without benefits -- has become increasingly popular, he said. It's a way for both employee and employer to see how things work before committing. Think of it as moving in together rather than marrying.
 But more interviews don't necessarily mean better people are being hired, Mr. Safferstone said. In 2003, his company asked 28,000 new hires across all fields how many interviews they had to get their current job. The researchers then used performance management data and interviews with managers to evaluate the performance of those 28,000 hires. Controlling for all other factors, it turned out that those who were interviewed four to five times were considered the best workers -- better than those who had been interviewed one to three times or six or more times.
 That may be because as a company does more and more interviews, the best people drop out, Mr. Safferstone said. ''Another theory is that if an organization needs to do six, seven or eight interviews, there might be a large question about that person or about the position.''
 Even though economic times have changed since the information was collected, Mr. Safferstone said he believed that the findings would be similar today.
 There are other reasons the hiring process may drag on and on. Human resource departments have often been downsized, so there are fewer people available to do all the work involved in getting someone new on board, said Karen Danziger, managing partner at the Howard-Sloan-Koller Group, an executive recruiting company. 
 Also, the concept of fit -- not only must the person be able to do the job but her personality, priorities and work style must complement the workplace -- has become more and more important, Ms. Danziger said. Having a potential employee meet as many people in as many departments as possible is a way to try to ensure that the fit is good. 
 But even if there are substantive reasons for companies to take so long to decide, many job hunters ask why so many employers interview them once, twice or more -- and then never get back in touch. And for that question, no one had a good answer. 
 Rejection, whatever form it comes in, is always hard to take. But those who have successfully navigated the process say that as difficult as it is, you should try not to take it personally. And more important, don't stop looking for a job until you have that signed contract in hand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katie Murphy, who is looking for a public relations job, has been interviewed four times for one position, with no official offer yet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%)

COMPANY: CORPORATE EXECUTIVE BOARD CO (53%)

TICKER: CEB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



260 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Is to Sell Hummer To a Chinese Company

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors said Friday that it would sell its Hummer brand, once a crucial part of its strategy to expand its lineup of sport utility vehicles, to a Chinese heavy equipment maker and a private investor.
 The sale, to Sichuan Tengzhong Heavy Industrial Machinery, is another step in G.M.'s rapid downsizing after emerging from a government-financed bankruptcy.
 G.M.'s talks with Sichuan Tengzhong were disclosed in June, and the agreement is still subject to regulatory approvals by the Chinese government. No terms were announced, but people with knowledge of the deal estimated the price at $150 million. 
 Shedding the Hummer brand was a welcome development for G.M., which was disappointed last week when a deal collapsed to sell its Saturn brand to the Penske Automotive Group.
 ''This is one more enabler to General Motors getting down to its core brands and having a business that's better able to support the marketplace,'' a G.M. spokesman, John McDonald, said.
 The automaker, which is 60 percent owned by the government, is now in the process of shutting down Saturn as well as Pontiac. G.M. is also trying to complete the sale of Saab to a Swedish company, and has agreed to sell a majority stake in its European brand, Opel.
 Reducing the number of brands was among the conditions to which G.M. agreed in exchange for receiving $50 billion in loans from the government.
 Once the brands are gone, G.M. will be left with four vehicle divisions -- Chevrolet, Cadillac, GMC and Buick -- in the American market.
 Hummer sales have dwindled in the last two years, as consumers shunned big, gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s in favor of smaller, more fuel-efficient cars.
 Sales of the brand peaked in 2006, when Hummer sold 71,000 vehicles in the United States. This year, through September, it has sold less than 9,000.
 Sichaun Tengzhong plans to acquire Hummer through an investment entity in which it will hold an 80 percent stake, with 20 percent held by the Chinese entrepreneur Suolang Duoji.
 Under terms of the agreement, G.M. will continue to make Hummers for the new owners for at least two years, at a Louisiana assembly plant. An additional Hummer model will be built at an Indiana plant operated by AM General, which sold the license for the brand to G.M. in 1999.
 Sichuan Tengzhong will take over agreements with Hummer's 153 American dealers and 231 dealers in international markets.
 The companies said in a statement that the current management team, including the chief executive, James Taylor, would remain. About 3,000 sales, manufacturing and corporate jobs will be preserved by the deal.
 Mr. Taylor said in a statement that the new owners planned to offer alternative-fuel engines in Hummer's three models, as well as a diesel version to be sold outside North America.
 ''Backed by a privately owned and well-capitalized company, we are going to be able to focus on providing customers with more efficient models that deliver Hummer's promise of authentic, purpose-built design and engineering,'' Mr. Taylor said.
 The Michigan Economic Growth Authority recently approved a tax credit for Hummer valued at $20 million over 10 years as an incentive to base the brand in the state. 
 A representative of the new owners said Friday that they were ''evaluating locations in southeast Michigan for our U.S. headquarters and various locations in the U.S. for a long-term manufacturing base.''
 The Hummer deal is considered an important expansion for the Chinese auto industry outside of its home market. It also is the first foray into passenger cars by Sichuan Tengzhong. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yang Yi, left, head of Sichuan Tengzhong Heavy Industrial Machinery, and James Taylor, who is to remain the chief of Hummer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN F. MARTIN FOR GENERAL MOTORS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); APPROVALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); PAG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (56%); NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (56%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (56%)

PERSON: ROGER S PENSKE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SICHUAN, CHINA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



261 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Designer Yamamoto Files For Bankruptcy Protection

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Yohji Yamamoto, the Japanese designer whose ascetic look defied the overexuberance of the 1980s, fell prey to the global economic crisis on Friday when the company bearing his name filed for bankruptcy protection. 
 Yohji Yamamoto follows a string of fashion houses into insolvency amid a slump in luxury sales worldwide. The Italian luxury company Gianfranco Ferre filed for bankruptcy in February, while Christian Lacroix, the French couturier, sought bankruptcy protection in May. 
 The outlook for the fashion industry is especially bleak in Japan. Women here, once the world's most avid luxury shoppers, are turning to cheaper, more casual fashion in the middle of a prolonged downturn.
 Low-cost brands like Uniqlo and the Swedish casual fashion retailer Hennes & Mauritz have become the labels of choice for many Japanese.
 Just this week, Gianni Versace, the Italian fashion brand, announced it would close its Japanese stores as demand for luxury goods continued to decline. Versace Japan had sales of 1.6 billion yen in 2008 (about $18 million at today's exchange rates) compared with 4.1 billion yen four years ago.
 In December, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton said it had abandoned plans to open a 12-story store in Ginza, one of Tokyo's prime shopping districts.
 Japan's market for imported luxury clothes and bags fell 10 percent between 2007 and 2008, to 1.06 trillion yen, according to a study by the Yano Research Institute. The market would shrink to 992.7 billion yen this year, less than half its peak of 1.9 trillion yen in 1996, the study said.
 With luxury sales also slowing in the traditional markets of the United States and Europe, fashion houses are shifting their attention to emerging countries like China and India.
 Yohji Yamamoto's debt totaled about 6 billion yen ($67 million) at the end of August, exceeding its assets, according to the Japanese credit research firm Teikoku Databank.
 The design house, founded in 1979, will continue to operate under Japan's corporate rehabilitation law, and Mr. Yamamoto, 66, will continue his work as a designer, according to The Associated Press.
 Along with compatriots like Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garcons, Mr. Yamamoto countered the bubbly '80s with black and white minimalist clothing, a look that attracted a strong following.
 But ill-timed store openings from 2007 in Antwerp, New York and Paris weighed on the company's bottom line before the global economic crisis, as well as a strengthening yen, dealt a blow to the company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yohji Yamamoto at a show in New York last month. His fashion house has been hurt by customers turning to low-cost clothing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEMAL COUNTESS/GETTY IMAGES FOR Y-3)
 A model presented a Yohji Yamamoto creation in Paris. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENOIT TESSIER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); LUXURY GOODS (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (75%); JAPANESE YEN (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (67%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (95%); H&M HENNES & MAURITZ AB (90%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (95%); LVMH (BIT) (95%); HM.B (STO) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (95%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (95%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (90%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



262 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Obama Urges Congress Not to Scale Back Financial Reform

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Congress prepares to overhaul the way Washington regulates the financial system, President Obama urged lawmakers on Friday to resist the lobbying forces working to crush a cornerstone of the administration's plan. 
 Meeting at the White House with Congressional members, federal and state officials and consumers who were victims of lending abuses, Mr. Obama said that to avoid a repetition of the financial crisis, Capitol Hill must resist efforts to water down a plan to create an agency to protect consumers from misleading or predatory mortgages and credit cards. 
 He singled out the United States Chamber of Commerce, in particular, for creating ads that he said were misleading in asserting that small businesses would be hurt by the proposal. 
 ''You might have seen some of these ads -- the ones that claim that local butchers and other small businesses somehow will be harmed by this agency,'' the president said. ''This is, of course, completely false -- and we've made clear that only businesses that offer financial services would be affected by this agency.''
 Deviating from his prepared remarks, he added, ''I don't know how many of your butchers are offering financial services.''
 Mr. Obama said that the Chamber's latest effort, part of a campaign by businesses to seek loopholes and exemptions from important rules that could protect consumers, reflected how ''business has been done in Washington for a very long time.'' He noted that over the last decade, the Chamber had spent nearly half a billion dollars in lobbying expenses.
 ''Contrary to what some have argued, this agency would not restrict consumer choice and innovation,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Nothing could be further from the truth. In the past, a lack of clear rules led to innovation of the wrong kind: the firms that did best were the ones that did the best job of hiding the real costs to consumers.''
 In response to the president's remarks, Thomas J. Collamore, a spokesman at the Chamber, said, ''The U.S. Chamber is focused on job creation and economic growth. It is our constitutional right to petition our government on behalf of our members, the millions of businesses trying to make their way out of this recession.''
 And David Hirschmann, president of the Chamber's Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, issued a statement that the group disagreed that a ''massive new federal agency with unprecedented powers over vast segments of the business community will be good for consumers, for America's job creators or for the economy.'' 
 While the public debate has focused on the plan to create the consumer protection agency, a huge and related behind-the-scenes lobbying battle has erupted over the issue of whether the new law would set a floor or a ceiling for regulation of lenders. Specifically, industry lobbyists have sought to kill the administration's proposal to enable states to set higher standards for banks. The industry has sought lower federal standards, and the pre-emption of any state regulations that would go further. 
 The outcome of that fight will help determine whether the legislation fundamentally alters the way banks and other less regulated lenders are supervised. The Bush administration largely succeeded in a series of court fights in blocking more aggressive state regulators and prosecutors from imposing tougher standards on lenders, including those that issued what are now seen as predatory loans. 
 Mr. Obama signaled his intention to continue to push for a prominent role for local supervision of lenders, introducing four state attorneys generals at the meeting: Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, Lisa Madigan of Illinois, Martha Coakley of Massachusetts and Roy Cooper of North Carolina.
 Senior Treasury officials, in interviews this week, repeated their commitment to preserving a major role for state regulators and prosecutors in policing financial companies, and said that those states that had more aggressive local regulation often have had fewer problems with their lenders. But industry lobbyists disagree -- and to the extent some bank lobbyists and executives support a federal financial consumer protection agency, they see it as a possible way to set lower federal standards that could pre-empt more restrictive action by the states.
 The White House meeting comes days before the House Financial Services Committee begins to mark up the administration's plan. Next week the committee will draft legislation overhauling the regulation of derivatives and creating the new agency. What remains to be seen is whether the new regulatory framework will have more teeth than the current system, which according to most experts was so lax that it was a major contributor to the crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and some Congressional allies at the White House on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); JOB CREATION (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PREDATORY LENDING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); MEAT STORES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); PETITIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



263 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Surprise Nobel for Obama Stirs Praise and Doubts

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Steven Erlanger reported from Paris, and Sheryl Gay Stolberg from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Walter Gibbs from Oslo, Alan Cowell from London, Nicholas Kulish from Berlin, Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem, and Taghreed El-Khodary from Gaza.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The choice of Barack Obama on Friday as the recipient of the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize, less than nine months into his eventful presidency, was an unexpected honor that elicited praise and puzzlement around the globe.
 Normally the prize has been presented, even controversially, for accomplishment. This prize, to a 48-year-old freshman president, for ''extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples,'' seemed a kind of prayer and encouragement by the Nobel committee for future endeavor and more consensual American leadership.
 But the prize quickly loomed as a potential political liability -- perhaps more burden than glory -- for Mr. Obama. Republicans contended that he had won more for his star power and oratorical skills than for his actual achievements, and even some Democrats privately questioned whether he deserved it. 
 The Nobel committee's embrace of Mr. Obama was viewed as a rejection of the unpopular tenure, in Europe especially, of his predecessor, George W. Bush. 
 But the committee, based in Norway, stressed that it made its decision based on Mr. Obama's actual efforts toward nuclear disarmament as well as American engagement with the world relying more on diplomacy and dialogue. 
 ''The question we have to ask is who has done the most in the previous year to enhance peace in the world,'' the Nobel committee chairman, Thorbjorn Jagland, said in Oslo after the announcement. ''And who has done more than Barack Obama?''
 Still, Mr. Obama, who was described as ''very surprised'' when he received the news, said he himself was not quite convinced, adding that the award ''deeply humbled'' him. 
 ''To be honest,'' the president said in the Rose Garden, ''I do not feel that I deserve to be in the company of so many of the transformative figures who have been honored by this prize, men and women who've inspired me and inspired the entire world through their courageous pursuit of peace.''
 He said, though, that he would ''accept this award as a call to action, a call for all nations to confront the challenges of the 21st century.'' Mr. Obama plans to travel to Oslo to accept the award on Dec. 10. He will donate the prize money of $1.4 million to charity, the White House said.
 Mr. Obama, only the third sitting American president to win the award, is suddenly put in the company of world leaders like Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who won for helping end the cold war, and Nelson Mandela, who sought an end to apartheid. 
 But less prominent figures have also won the award. 
 The reaction inside the administration was one of restraint, perhaps reflecting the awkwardness of winning a major prize amid a worldwide debate about whether it was deserved. 
 Republicans in Washington, reacting in disbelief, sought to portray Mr. Obama as unworthy. In an official statement, Michael Steele, chairman of the Republican National Committee, said, ''The real question Americans are asking is, 'What has President Obama actually accomplished?' ''
 But there was much praise as well, even if Mr. Obama's allies worried that the prize might be a liability and even if much of the praise came from Europe, giving ammunition to conservatives who say Mr. Obama cares too much about opinion there.
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France said the award marked ''America's return to the hearts of the world's peoples,'' while Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said it was an ''incentive to the president and to us all'' to do more for peace. 
 ''In a short time he has been able to set a new tone throughout the world and to create a readiness for dialogue,'' she said.
 For a world that at times felt pushed around by a more unilateralist Bush administration, the prize for Mr. Obama seemed wrapped in gratitude for his willingness to listen and negotiate, as well as for his positions on climate change and nuclear disarmament. 
 Last year's laureate, former President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland, saw the award as an endorsement of Mr. Obama's goal of achieving Middle East peace. 
 ''Of course, this puts pressure on Obama,'' he said. ''The world expects that he will also achieve something.''
 The prize, announced as official Washington -- including the president -- was asleep, caught the White House off guard. 
 The first word of it came in the form of an e-mail message to the White House staff from the White House Situation Room, which monitors events worldwide around the clock, at 5:09 a.m. It carried the subject line ''item of interest.'' 
 Shortly before 6 a.m., the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, telephoned Mr. Obama, awakening him to share the news. 
 ''There has been no discussion, nothing at all,'' said the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel.
 The award comes at a time of considerable challenges for the president, with few sweeping achievements so far. 
 On the domestic front, he is pressing Congress to overhaul the nation's health care system. In foreign affairs, he is wrestling with his advisers over how to chart a new course in Afghanistan and has been working, with little movement, to restart peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians.
 The Rose Garden appearance was an example of Mr. Obama's heavy workload; it was squeezed into a day that already included his regular intelligence and economic briefings, a private meeting with a senator, lunch with the vice president, a major speech outlining plans for a new consumer protection agency and a strategy session on Afghanistan with his national security team.
 Announcing the award, the Nobel committee cited Mr. Obama ''for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples'' and said that he had ''created a new climate in international politics.'' 
 In a four-paragraph statement, it praised Mr. Obama for his tone, his preference for negotiation and multilateral diplomacy and his vision of a cooperative world of shared values, shorn of nuclear weapons.
 ''Only very rarely has a person to the same extent as Obama captured the world's attention and given its people hope for a better future,'' the committee said. ''His diplomacy is founded in the concept that those who are to lead the world must do so on the basis of values and attitudes that are shared by the majority of the world's population.''
 The other sitting American presidents to be given the award were Theodore Roosevelt in 1906, for negotiating an end to a war between Russia and Japan, and Woodrow Wilson in 1919, for the Treaty of Versailles.
 Former President Jimmy Carter won in 2002 for his efforts over decades to spread peace and development. Mr. Carter called the award to Mr. Obama ''a bold statement of international support for his vision and commitment.''
 Former Vice President Al Gore won in 2007, sharing the prize with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, for his work on climate change. Mr. Gore called Mr. Obama's award ''well deserved'' on Friday. 
 Mr. Obama has generated considerable goodwill overseas, with polls showing him hugely popular, and he has made a series of speeches with arching ambition. He has vowed to pursue a world without nuclear weapons; reached out to the Muslim world, delivering a major speech in Cairo in June; and sought to restart peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, at the expense of offending some of his Jewish supporters.
 But he has had to devote a great deal of his time to the economic crisis and other domestic issues, and many of his policy efforts are only beginning. 
 In addition to the challenges in Afghanistan and Pakistan, the situation in Iraq is extremely fragile; North Korea has staged missile tests; Iran continues to enrich uranium in defiance of United Nations Security Council resolutions, though it recently agreed to restart nuclear talks; Israel has resisted a settlement freeze; and Saudi Arabia has refused to make new gestures toward the Israelis.
 Ahmed Youssef, a Hamas spokesman, congratulated Mr. Obama but said the prize was based only on good intentions. Muhammad al-Sharif, a politically independent Gazan, was incredulous. ''Has Israel stopped building the settlements?'' he asked. ''Has Obama achieved a Palestinian state yet?''
 The Nobel committee did not tell Mr. Obama in advance of the announcement, said its chairman, Mr. Jagland. ''Waking up a president in the middle of the night,'' he said, ''this isn't really something you do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama in the Oval Office on Friday. He got news of the award when his press secretary awakened him with a call.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) CHART: American Nobel Peace Laureates 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (94%); NOBEL PRIZES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NORWAY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



264 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Panel Says Obama Plan Won't Slow Foreclosures

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
A day after the Obama administration proclaimed significant progress in its effort to spare troubled homeowners from foreclosure, an oversight panel on Friday sharply criticized the program and declared it would leave millions of Americans vulnerable to losing their homes.
 In a report mild in language but pointed in substance, the Congressional Oversight Panel -- a watchdog created last year to keep tabs on taxpayer bailout funds -- said the administration's program would, ''in the best case,'' prevent ''fewer than half of the predicted foreclosures.''
 The report rebuked the administration for failing to shape a program that addressed the most significant engines of the foreclosure crisis -- soaring joblessness and exotic mortgages with low introductory interest rates that give way to sharply higher payments over the next three years. Many of those mortgages are too large to qualify for modification under the administration's plan. People who lose their jobs often lack enough income to qualify for relief. 
 The administration's plan appears ''targeted at the housing crisis as it existed six months ago, rather than as it exists now,'' asserted the oversight panel in its report. ''The panel urges Treasury to reconsider the scope, scalability and permanence of the programs designed to minimize the economic impact of foreclosures and consider whether new programs or program enhancements could be adopted.''
 In a telephone briefing with reporters, the oversight panel's chairwoman, Elizabeth Warren, said the administration's housing program was so limited that it was unlikely to keep pace with the growing wave of foreclosures. 
 ''Even when Treasury's programs are running at full speed, foreclosures are estimated to outpace modifications by about two to one,'' Ms. Warren said. ''It simply isn't clear that the programs in place will do enough to tame the crisis and have a significant impact on the broader economy.''
 The Treasury acknowledged that its anti-foreclosure program was limited, with the effect of rising unemployment not fully checked. But the department said other relief efforts, like extended jobless benefits and continued health insurance for people who lose work, were better suited to alleviating economic distress than the housing program. 
 ''In developing this program, it was critical that we address challenges that could be solved quickly with the tools available to us to ensure the most effective use of taxpayer money,'' said Meg Reilly, a Treasury spokeswoman.
 The administration's decision to limit the cost of its one program aimed at helping homeowners could become more contentious as the foreclosure crisis grinds on. Populist anger has flashed over the rescues of major institutions including Citigroup and the American International Group -- the most prominent components of a $700 billion taxpayer-financed bailout -- while homeowners struggle.
 ''These Treasury people are all from Wall Street, and they're not doing anything but protecting Wall Street,'' said Melissa A. Huelsman, a Seattle lawyer who represents homeowners fighting foreclosure. ''They don't care in the least about protecting homeowners.''
 When the Obama administration began its $75 billion Making Home Affordable program in March, it said the plan would spare as many as four million households from foreclosure. On Thursday, Treasury announced that 500,000 homeowners had since had their payments lowered on a trial basis, celebrating this as a milestone.
 But the report from the oversight panel directly challenged the administration's characterizations.
 Most prominently, the panel had grave uncertainty about whether large numbers of the trial loan modifications -- which typically run for three months -- would successfully be converted to permanent terms.
 As of the beginning of September, only 1.26 percent of trial modifications that had made it through the three-month trial period had become permanent, the report found. Of course, very few of those trial loans had reached their three-month expiration because the program only recently began processing large numbers of applications. As of Sept. 1, the Obama plan had produced 1,711 permanent loan modifications. 
 Some homeowners complain they have received trial modifications only to have them canceled for what seem dubious reasons -- checks sent but supposedly never received, documents once in the file but suddenly missing.
 ''We're on the phone arguing with mortgage companies every day,'' said Dan Harris, chief executive of Home Retention Group, a company that negotiates with mortgage companies for loan modifications on behalf of homeowners, adding that trial modifications for four of his clients had been canceled over the last month. ''It's incredible.''
 Major mortgage companies say they have significantly increased staffing to better manage the flow of paperwork, while notifying customers of the need to send in fresh documents to make their trial modifications permanent. But the companies offer no assurances that a large number of trial modifications will indeed become permanent.
 ''The process is too new,'' said Dan Frahm, a spokesman for Bank of America. ''We don't know the number.'' He estimated that 15 percent to half of all trial modifications would fail to become permanent.
 The Treasury expressed hopes that a newly streamlined process that allowed borrowers to submit documents to mortgage companies more easily would help make large numbers of trial modifications permanent.
 ''We are intent on working with servicers to ensure that eligible borrowers receive permanent modifications,'' said the department spokesperson, Ms. Reilly. 
 The oversight panel's report expressed chagrin that the vast majority of loan modifications did not lower loan balances, leaving many homeowners still ''under water,'' or owing more than their homes were worth. 
 This tends to lower all property values, the report noted, because underwater borrowers have less incentive to care for their homes, and greater reason to stop making payments and default.
 An Obama administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity, citing a lack of authorization to speak publicly, said the Treasury would have preferred that the program focused more on writing down principal balances but ultimately opted against it because ''that would make it significantly more expensive to the taxpayer.''
 In Wauwatosa, Wis., Theresa Lutz, 47, has been seeking to lower the payments on her home for several months. She is a graphic designer whose working hours were cut last summer. In September, her employer cut her salary by 6 percent. That has made it difficult for her to pay her monthly mortgage of $1,307.
 As Ms. Lutz described it, her mortgage company, Wells Fargo, initially agreed to lower her payments. But then, last week, the bank informed her that she would have to come up with a fresh $3,000 to compensate the investor who owned her loan.
 A Wells Fargo spokesman, Kevin Waetke, said that information had been conveyed ''in error'' and ''the customer has been notified that payment does not need to be made.''
 As Ms. Lutz struggled to clarify her agreement with Wells Fargo, she expressed dismay at news of the oversight panel's report, and its finding that not enough help seemed to be on the way.
 ''It looks to me like Wall Street is too invested in our government,'' she said. ''Big business is winning out over the average person.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Homeowners seeking to renegotiate their mortgages met with bank representatives at an event last month in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBYN BECK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



265 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania Lawmakers End the Budget Stalemate

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
Ending a 101-day stalemate, the longest of any state this year, Pennsylvania lawmakers passed a $27.8 billion state budget and Gov. Edward G. Rendell signed it on Friday. 
 The measure cuts overall spending by more than 1 percent and relies on nearly $500 million in new taxes on sales of cigarettes, little cigars and businesses that pay the capital stock and franchise tax.
 A 42-to-7 Senate vote followed House approval on Wednesday.
 The bill also legalizes and taxes table games at the state's slot-machine casinos and leases more state forest land to natural gas exploration companies, a move that drew strong criticism from environmental groups. 
 Despite the cuts, Mr. Rendell, a Democrat, succeeded in raising spending on operations and instruction in public schools by $300 million, or 5.7 percent.
 The bill does not raise sales or income taxes, the state's two biggest sources of revenue.
 The legislature rejected the governor's proposal to raise the state income tax by 16 percent.
 There were ''no winners or losers'' in the budget fight, Dominic F. Pileggi, the Senate majority leader and a Republican from Chester, said after the vote.
 ''We started out with the governor strongly insisting that we need an additional $1 billion in revenue and a $1.5 billion increase in the personal income tax,'' Mr. Pileggi said. ''It took a while to bring those down.'' 
 The $3.2 billion deficit, which stemmed partly from the recession and a sharp drop in state revenue, drove the impasse.
 Pennsylvania has relied on an interim $11 billion budget since August to pay many of its bondholders and to finance operations. 
 But the budget impasse left others in a bind as some school districts had to turn to short-term borrowing because subsidy checks from the state did not arrive and organizations that serve children and low-income families and depend on state subsidies could not pay their staffs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); CHILDREN (73%); FAMILY (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BONDS (63%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (55%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (55%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (55%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



266 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: Have Banks No Shame?

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
A few months ago, I asked Simon Johnson, the former International Monetary Fund economist, now a prominent critic of the banking industry, what he thought the banks owed the country after all the government bailouts. 
 ''They can't pay what they owe!'' he began angrily. Then he paused, collected his thoughts and started over: ''Tim Geithner saved them on terms extremely favorable to the banks. They should support all of his proposed reforms.''
 Mr. Johnson continued, ''What gets me is that the banks have continued to oppose consumer protection. How can they be opposed to consumer protection as defined by a man who is the most favorable Treasury secretary they have had in a generation? If he has decided that this is what they need, what moral right do they have to oppose it? It is unconscionable.''
 I couldn't have said it better myself. 
 Starting on Wednesday, the House Financial Services Committee will take up a number of reforms proposed by the Obama administration, hoping to push them through the committee so they can be voted on the House floor as part of a larger financial reform package. Among the proposals the committee will tackle is, yes, the establishment of a new consumer financial protection agency. 
 The administration's outline for this new agency -- which would regulate mortgages, credit cards, debit cards, installment loans and any other product issued by a financial institution -- was sent up to Capitol Hill in July. Since then, Barney Frank, the committee chairman, has made a number of substantial changes, none of which, I have to say, have strengthened the proposed legislation. He stripped the bill of the much-promoted ''plain vanilla'' provision, which would have forced, say, mortgage brokers to offer customers a 30-year fixed mortgage alongside any exotic option A.R.M. mortgage they wanted to push.
 He has changed the nature of an oversight panel, so that it would consist of the top bank regulators -- the very same regulators who did such a miserable job looking out for consumers during the housing bubble. He has tinkered with the way the agency will be financed, making it less onerous for the banking industry and more onerous for nonbank financial institutions that will come under the agency's purview. 
 Saddest of all -- at least from where I'm sitting -- he abandoned the so-called reasonableness standard, which would have forced bankers to make sure their customers both understood the products they were buying and could afford them. Mr. Frank has said that such a provision would put bankers in an ''untenable position.'' Yet that is precisely what brokers are required to do when they sell a stock or a bond to their customers. Why shouldn't the same standard apply to a banker making a mortgage loan?
 Part of the reason Mr. Frank made those changes is that he needs the support of conservative Democrats if he hopes to turn this bill into law. But it is also because he felt a need to mollify, at least to some extent, the bank lobby, especially the community bankers who populate every Congressional district in the country. Indeed, in a recent missive to its members, the American Bankers Association trumpeted its success in helping make the bill more palatable to the banking industry.
 Yet even now, despite its success in reining in the proposed agency, the banking industry is still lobbying fiercely against it. Edward L. Yingling, the president of A.B.A., borrowed a line from ''Casablanca'' to describe the impulse behind the proposed consumer agency. ''They're rounding up the usual suspects,'' he complained to me the other day. ''We're the usual suspects.''
 Not long ago, the A.B.A. sent an ''action alert'' to its member banks, pleading with them to call their congressman in a last-ditch effort to stop the bill. (''Passing more laws that will overly complicate and restrict the products our customers need is detrimental to our banks,'' the note read in part.) And even if the bill does pass, the industry is hoping to pervert its purpose, so that it will become a means to stifle competition from nonbank financial institutions. 
 To which one can only ask: Have they no shame?
 ''There needs to be more focus on consumers,'' Mr. Yingling insisted. ''We agree with that.''
 Whenever you talk to bankers or their lobbyists about the proposed agency, you hear some variation of what I've come to think of as the party line. It's not that they're against consumer protection, they say. (Heaven forbid!) Rather, they say, this new agency -- larded as it will surely be with thousands of newly deputized bureaucrats, each one eager to impose burdensome new regulations -- is simply not the way to go about it. 
 The current bank regulators, they point out correctly, already have consumer protection as part of their portfolios. ''All they need to do is enforce the regulations already on the books,'' one top banker told me recently. (Like all top bankers these days, he would speak only anonymously, fearing the wrath of the Treasury.)
 What's more -- and this is the part that is really unbelievable -- they insist that bankers weren't the cause of the financial crisis. The entities that were peddling all those awful subprime mortgages were the nonbanks -- the mortgage originators and mortgage brokers -- who were almost entirely unregulated. ''We have no objection to them regulating the nonregulated firms,'' said Camden R. Fine, the president of the Independent Community Bankers of America.
 Well, of course, he doesn't. If the bankers can persuade Congress to change this agency's mission so that it only regulates the nonbanks -- something they are trying to do, and which Mr. Frank insists will not be successful -- they will have succeeded in putting sand in the engine of their nonbank competitors.
 In fact, nonbank financial institutions do need to be regulated; they weren't exactly the good guys during the housing bubble. But neither were the bankers, something they've conveniently forgotten. 
 Who do you think was creating all those subprime mortgages that the brokers and originators were peddling? The banks, that's who. I've had mortgage brokers tell me how bank salespeople put enormous pressure on them to ratchet up their sales of, say, option A.R.M., no-doc mortgages --mortgages the banks were offering, through the brokers -- so they could make the loans and then bundle them to Wall Street for a hefty fee. Bankers were every bit as complicit in pushing mortgages on customers who lacked the means to pay them back.
 Even now, banks are engaged in practices that are, at best, dubious, and at worst deceptive. How about, for instance, those rapacious debit card overdraft fees? My colleagues Ron Lieber and Andrew Martin have pointed out in recent articles that a decade ago, such fees barely existed; instead, the card was routinely rejected when a consumer tried to make a purchase with an empty bank account. Now, whether customers want overdraft protection or not, most banks cover the purchase and charge an absurdly high fee for the ''privilege.''
 No one can doubt that these fees hurt the very people who can least afford to pay them. (If you have college-age children, as I do, you know this firsthand.) But none of the regulators who are now supposed to be looking out for consumers were the least bit concerned. Only after the articles exposing these practices ran on the front page of The New York Times did several banks agree to abandon the fees for small overdrafts. But should it really require newspaper exposes to get banks to do the right thing?
 Alas, without a consumer agency, that is pretty much what it takes. The real reason current regulators don't pay more attention to consumer problems is not that they are evil (well, mostly they're not), but that they have another mission that takes priority. They are charged with insuring the safety and soundness of the banking system. And safety and soundness means making sure that banks have enough capital -- and are compensating for loan losses. When a bank decides to raise a customer's credit card interest rate to 35 percent to make up for losses elsewhere in the credit card portfolio, that believe it or not, is a good thing from the perspective of safety and soundness. Even though it is a terrible thing for consumers.
 Which is also why the bankers' line about having their current regulators look out for consumers is so bogus. At the Federal Reserve, consumers will never come first; Alan Greenspan had the power to curb abusive subprime loans, but he just wasn't interested. Nor is it any different over at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the nation's other big bank regulator. Not long ago, John C. Dugan, the comptroller, gave a speech in which he said -- channeling Mr. Yingling -- that the banks had not been responsible for the financial crisis. Regulators who take their talking points from the American Bankers Association don't exactly inspire confidence that they're looking out for consumers.
 A consumer protection agency, on the other hand, wouldn't have that dual mission; its sole goal would be to try to keep bank -- and nonbank -- customers from being gouged, deceived or otherwise taken advantage of. Without question, it would occasionally come into conflict with the safety and soundness regulators. But that is why that oversight panel exists: to hash out such conflicts.
 There are those who believe that Mr. Frank's changes have essentially gutted the bill. John Taylor, the chief executive of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, told me that he now opposed the bill because it had been so watered down. 
 But most others still think it is a strong bill. Michael Calhoun, the president of the Center for Responsible Lending, called it ''a reasonably strong bill,'' despite the changes. And although I was worried at first when I saw provisions like plain vanilla and the reasonableness standard falling by the wayside, I'm now convinced that the new agency, as currently conceived, can still do a lot of good. It will have the authority to outlaw unfair products, and to force financial institutions treat their customers like, well, customers -- and not lambs to be slaughtered.
 Who could possibly be against that? Oh, right. The bankers are against it. And just a few days ago, The Wall Street Journal editorial page, that knee-jerk defender of corporate interests, came out against it as well.
 That clinches it for me. The sooner we can pass the thing, the better. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank, right, with Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (70%); DEBIT CARDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (71%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



267 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Crisis Leaves Europe in Slow Lane

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and MATTHEW SALTMARSH

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Two years ago, Europe was growing more rapidly than the United States, and the Old Continent finally seemed prepared to tackle longstanding economic challenges like rigid labor markets, runaway government spending and a rapidly aging population.
 But as Asia and the United States emerge from the global economic crisis, Europe appears likely to be the world's laggard, threatening a return to the dark days of ''Eurosclerosis.'' Leaders who once spoke optimistically of fundamental changes aimed at enhancing productivity have turned to the more prosaic tasks of protecting jobs and avoiding painful political choices.
 ''It's worse than being back to Square 1,'' said Gilles Moec, a senior economist in London for Deutsche Bank.
 And just when it is needed most, the political will to address Europe's bigger economic problems seems absent, according to many experts across the region and around the world. 
 When he was elected president of France in 2007, Nicolas Sarkozy spoke of the need for a ''rupture,'' including the loosening of a highly regulated labor market to better compete in the global economy.
 But now, ''President Sarkozy has gone, if not 180 degrees, then at least 90 degrees in the opposite direction,'' said Charles Wyplosz, director of the International Center for Monetary and Banking Studies in Geneva. ''The things he talked about then still need to be done if we want to have growth, but the crisis has slowed some of the impetus for change.''
 In Germany, Angela Merkel, who was elected last month to a second term as chancellor, has also avoided taking on the country's powerful unions and its regional banks. She has embraced the ''social market economy'' and has insisted there is no alternative to relying on exports rather than consumers to drive growth.
 In addition, her government has come under withering attack from elsewhere in Europe for providing billions of euros in aid to keep the automaker Opel at the possible expense of workers in Belgium, Britain and Spain.
 With Europe plagued by huge manufacturing overcapacity, other automakers are likely to suffer further losses. After surging this year on cash-for-clunkers incentives in many countries, car sales in Western Europe are expected to drop 5 to 6 percent next year, according to Credit Suisse.
 In Germany, where the automobile industry is as much a symbol as beer at Oktoberfest, Credit Suisse projects that sales to individual buyers will fall 21 percent, in contrast with an expected 18 percent increase in the United States.
 It is not just the auto sector that is threatened: analysts also contend that recent stress tests applied to the Continent's banks were not as effective as those used in the United States.
 Despite losses on both American subprime debt and local loans in boom-to-bust economies in Spain, Ireland and the Baltics, ''the banking system has not really been restructured,'' said Nicolas Veron, a research fellow at Bruegel, a policy center in Brussels. As a result, Europe runs the risk of repeating Japan's ''lost decade'' in the 1990s, when huge losses clogged bank balance sheets and inhibited new lending.
 The slowdown is an abrupt reversal from the period leading up to the crisis. Ireland's economy grew 5 percent a year from 1999 to 2007 and became known as the Celtic Tiger, while unemployment fell during sustained growth in Europe's biggest economies, Germany and France.
 Underscoring the new pessimism, new statistics released Wednesday showed a 0.2 percent contraction in the euro zone in the second quarter, worse than forecast.
 ''The Europeans are losing out,'' said Simon Johnson, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''The Europeans are the biggest losers of the economic crisis, even though the home of subprime madness was the U.S.''
 To be sure, the American economy is not out of the woods yet, either, with unemployment still on the rise, homeowners still burdened by mortgage debts and Washington offering few details about how it will cure its own huge government deficits.
 But the euro's recent surge against the dollar mostly reflects higher interest rates on the Continent rather than optimism about Europe's prospects, and the stronger currency actually makes European exports less competitive globally.
 Already, the euro zone's share of world trade has slipped to 28 percent in 2008 from 31 percent in 2004, according to the World Trade Organization.
 Economies in Spain, Ireland and Greece are all expected to keep shrinking in 2010, while the region's economic powerhouse, Germany, ekes out a 0.3 percent gain, according to a bleak new outlook from the International Monetary Fund.
 And there are signs that Europe's anemic economic performance will translate into less political power. European countries had an outsize voice in the Group of 7, the world's principal economic forum since the mid-1970s. But late last month, world leaders said that elite club would soon be eclipsed by the Group of 20, a much more global assembly that includes emerging economic giants like Brazil, China and India.
 Though symbolic, the shift from the G-7 to the G-20 crystallized fears that the world economy would actually be steered by what C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, calls the G-2 -- the United States and China. ''Ideally, it would be the G-3, but Europe doesn't speak with a single voice and they can't coordinate and function the same way the U.S. and China can,'' Mr. Bergsten said.
 What is more, the economic crisis has also paralyzed European efforts to come to grips with longer-term factors inhibiting growth, like an aging work force and slowing population growth in many countries. 
 Over the next 25 years, Western Europe's population is expected to increase just 0.7 percent, to 189.8 million, from its current 188.5 million, compared with a 20 percent increase in the United States over the same period, according to the United Nations. At the same time, the overall population is getting older across the region, from the Russian border to the Atlantic.
 The best way to compensate for an aging population -- and therefore fewer workers -- is higher productivity. But that indicator, too, has been moving in the wrong direction. After rising smartly in the 1970s and 1980s, productivity in the last decade and a half has inched up 0.9 percent annually in Europe, compared to 1.7 percent in the United States, Mr. Moec said.
 ''Productivity growth in the U.S. has not been spectacular lately, but it's been much better than Europe, and the U.S. doesn't have this massive demographic problem,'' he said. ''Until now, we thought of the demographic issue as theoretical, but it's starting to bite.''
 Over the long term, that is likely to require workers to rethink the generous social benefits, long vacations and early retirement plans they once took for granted.
 Louise Richardson, 65, had planned to retire now as chief executive of the Older Women's Network, a charity based in Dublin. She will now have to delay that at least two years because of the toll the financial crisis has taken on her retirement savings.
 ''I can't retire. I can't afford to,'' said Ms. Richardson, a widow whose savings have dropped to 80,000 euros, or $118,000, from 240,000 euros over the last decade. ''My pension's been completely knocked off its trolley. The money was just swallowed up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has said there is no alternative to relying on exports for growth instead of consumers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL PROBST/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); AGING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (66%); ANGELA MERKEL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); SPAIN (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



268 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Barack Obama, Nobel Peace Laureate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Regarding the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to President Obama on Friday (The New York Times on the Web, Oct. 9):
 I applaud this stunning decision as a much-needed boost to the image of the United States on the world stage and as a vote of confidence in President Obama's diplomatic efforts. 
 But conservatives in this country are going to see it as an effort by the Nobel Committee to unduly influence President Obama's policy review on Afghanistan. Meanwhile, progressives will find succor in what Rahm Emanuel jokingly referred to as an ''Oslo beats Copenhagen'' moment. 
 Nonetheless, congratulations, Mr. President! This award could not have come at a better time for you and America.
 Jack Nargundkar Germantown, Md., Oct. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I love Barack Obama, I voted for him, I approve of his policy initiatives and his leadership. But the Nobel Peace Prize? Isn't it a bit premature?
 George Wolf New York, Oct. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 While the Nobel Peace Prize is a tribute to the mood that President Obama has created around much of the world and what he will do, it is also a strong statement by the Nobel Committee in Oslo against the American presidency of the last eight years.
 Once again many of us here in the United States feel that anything is possible, that everyone has the same chances. Alas, this was not the case during the last administration. Congratulations to President Obama, who has proven once again that ''yes, we can.''
 Jennifer Dorn New York, Oct. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Notwithstanding my respect and admiration for Barack Obama's record, this award seems wrong in too many ways. As many have said, it looks premature. But let me stress other drawbacks:
 It does not seem innocent. As has often been the case with Nobel awards, this one seems geared toward influencing policy (in this case, preventing Mr. Obama from sending additional troops to Afghanistan), rather than recognizing achievements.
 It misstates Mr. Obama's most obvious accomplishments. If the Nobel Committee admires the president for starting a new era of postracial, multicultural, tolerant politics in America and the world (which is worthy enough for the prize), it should have said so explicitly. 
 It eliminates the incentive for Mr. Obama to win the prize in the future. Most world leaders dream of winning the Nobel Peace Prize one day. Holding off on giving him the prize would have given Mr. Obama one more incentive to foster world peace in the years to come. 
 The Nobel Foundation would be protecting its credibility by increasing its transparency and reducing its activism.
 Gilles Serra Oxford, England, Oct. 9, 2009
 The writer is a research fellow in the department of politics and international relations at the University of Oxford.
 To the Editor:
 It is irresponsible and dangerous to award the Nobel Peace Prize to a sitting commander in chief currently overseeing two wars of aggression. The Nobel Committee made vague assertions about President Obama's diplomatic efforts and lofty vision for a nuclear-free world.
 But the truth is that Mr. Obama is not the first president to call for nuclear disarmament, nor is he ready to set the example by destroying our enormous nuclear arsenal.
 It is deeply troubling that Mr. Obama was awarded the Nobel Prize not for what he has achieved, but for what he has said he hopes to achieve.
 Sam Maron Burlington, Vt., Oct. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 While I congratulate President Obama on his Nobel Prize, I fear that this award will only add to conservatives' outrage and malicious characterization of the president. When he ran for office, without a Nobel Prize, he was mocked as ''the anointed one.''
 I suspect that his receipt of an award, granted by a Norwegian committee, will encourage those critics who claim that Mr. Obama is somehow un-American or that he signals a nefarious Europeanization of American politics.
 James Monk Houston, Oct. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Have we returned to George Orwell's ''1984''? Does ''peace'' mean ''war''?
 I believe that President Obama is the first recipient of the Peace Prize to be waging two wars at the very moment of the announcement of the award.
 I voted for Mr. Obama, but the Nobel Committee has in one stroke devalued the moral currency of the prize. I hope that some of the previous laureates who were true seekers of, and workers for, peace will say so -- women and men like, to name a few, Bishop Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo and President Jose Ramos-Horta of East Timor, Nelson Mandela of South Africa, Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams of Northern Ireland, Rigoberta Menchu of Guatemala and Daw Aung San Suu Kyi of Myanmar.
 Judith Mahoney Pasternak New York, Oct. 9, 2009
 The writer is a member of the national board of the War Resisters League.
 To the Editor:
 Regarding the Nobel Peace Prize and comments that President Obama hasn't accomplished much yet, I beg to differ. Mr. Obama has people across the world thinking in new and different ways, enabling them to go forth and make their own contribution to making the planet a better place. What greater accomplishment could there be for world peace than that?
 Susan K. Whoriskey Belmont, Mass., Oct. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 When I awoke to the surprising and welcome news that President Obama had won the Nobel Peace Prize, I could already hear the howls from the Republican Party diminishing the honor and attacking the Nobel Committee. Sure enough, right on cue, the Republican chairman, Michael Steele, pooh-poohed the president's ''star power'' and wished out loud that someone else had taken the award. 
 Here's a helpful note to the Republican Party: it is good news for America when its sitting president wins the Nobel Peace Prize. Just take this one with some grace, please.
 Cody Harris San Francisco, Oct. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I'm a college teacher who voted for President Obama, but I know grade inflation when I see it.
 The president could demonstrate real mettle by telling the Nobel Committee: ''Thanks for the thought, guys, but I know I haven't accomplished anything yet. I hope you can keep me in mind a few years down the road, though.''
 Dan Hall Canandaigua, N.Y., Oct. 9, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THE HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (96%); NOBEL PRIZES (95%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009



269 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Premier Calls for Dialogue Between U.S. and North Korea

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China's prime minister called Saturday for the United States and North Korea to engage in a ''conscientious and constructive dialogue'' aimed at reviving multilateral talks over the North's nuclear weapons program. 
 North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il, suggested in a meeting with China's premier last week that his country would return to multilateral talks if the United States held bilateral talks and if those negotiations went well. The United States has said it would hold talks with North Korea, but only if they quickly lead to the resumption of multilateral deliberations aimed at resolving the nuclear issue. 
 The statement by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao seemed to indicate that China was ready to take a more active role in trying to end the standoff between the United States and North Korea, but it remains unclear if he won concessions from the North that will induce Washington to enter into bilateral talks.
 Kurt M. Campbell, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, is expected to hold follow-up discussions next week in Beijing and Tokyo, the State Department said.
 Since 2003, the multilateral or six-party talks -- which include the two Koreas, the United States, China, Russia and Japan -- have been the main forum where the regional powers have tried to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear ambitions. But North Korea called the talks ''dead'' and insisted on a direct dialogue with Washington after the regional powers joined United Nations sanctions that were imposed on the North in the aftermath of its nuclear test in May.
 Mr. Wen's statement came at a news conference following a high-level meeting here at the Great Hall of the People, in which the leaders of China, Japan and South Korea pledged to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula and forge closer ties with one another.
 The Chinese prime minister, who had just returned from the three-day visit to North Korea, said that its neighbor was eager to improve relations with the United States, Japan and South Korea, and that he had hopes for an early resumption of the six-party talks.
 Standing alongside Japan's new prime minister, Yukio Hatoyama, and the South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak, Mr. Wen pressed for something to be done quickly.
 ''If we miss this opportunity, then we may have to make even more efforts further down the road,'' he said.
 During his visit to North Korea, Mr. Wen agreed to ship economic aid and increase economic exchanges with the North, raising fears in South Korea and Japan that the package rewarded North Korea prematurely and would undermine United Nations sanctions. 
 At a separate meeting between Japan and South Korea last week in Seoul, the leaders of the two countries vowed to enforce United Nations sanctions against North Korea until they had clear evidence North Korea had abandoned its nuclear weapons ambitions. 
 But on Saturday, China, Japan and South Korea did not discuss their apparent differences in approach and emphasized that they would cooperate to resolve the nuclear issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (57%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (79%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%); YUKIO HATOYAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



270 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2453 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Hires Mr. Inside

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
ALL of the nation's major banks have a raft of Washington lobbyists, and with good reason. For people accustomed to dealing with numbers on Wall Street, the nation's capital can seem impossibly complex. 
 The nettle of rules and regulations, the web of agencies and regulators, and, of course, the harsh realities of politics combine to make Washington a confounding place. And with legislators looking to redraw the rules for financial institutions to prevent a repeat of the credit crisis, having an advocate in Washington is a must. 
 Few banks can use advice about navigating the federal government more than Citigroup, a company so hobbled by the crisis that it has essentially become a ward of the state, kept alive through multiple infusions of taxpayer funds.
 Still, people inside and outside the bank say they were stunned when Richard D. Parsons, Citigroup's chairman, enlisted the services last spring of Richard F. Hohlt, a longtime Washington insider with a history of aggressive advocacy for the banking industry. 
 Critics say that as a top lobbyist for the savings and loan industry in the 1980s, Mr. Hohlt blocked regulation of these institutions and played a pivotal role helping to prolong dubious industry practices that cost taxpayers $150 billion to clean up. 
 After that crisis passed, he faded from the public eye but continued advising clients, cementing his contacts in the news media and even surfacing as one among a handful of Washington insiders involved in the public outing of Valerie Wilson as a C.I.A. agent. 
 Five former regulators who encountered Mr. Hohlt during the savings and loan fiasco expressed dismay and surprise that he had been hired by the chairman of a bank that has received tens of billions of dollars of taxpayer assistance, and voiced concerns about what exactly he had been hired to do.
 ''Mr. Hohlt has a track record as a behind-the-scenes, Republican influence peddler who caused severe damage to U.S. citizens by helping to delay and weaken the crackdown on the S.& L. control frauds,'' says William K. Black, a former regulator and a top investigator for the definitive Congressional report on the S.& L. crisis. 
 ''It is singularly obscene that any recipient of taxpayer assistance through the TARP program during the current financial crisis would hire one of the most infamous lobbyists in the world to represent them,'' says Mr. Black, who now is a professor of law at the University of Missouri at Kansas City.
 IN the 1980s, Mr. Hohlt's tactics as a lobbyist for the United States League of Savings Institutions -- which he acknowledges included reneging on a promise to support legislation to recapitalize the industry -- so enraged regulators that two government officials say they banned him from their offices. 
 Mr. Hohlt, 61, says he was simply the messenger for the S.& L.'s in their dealings with regulators. ''Yeah, mistakes were made,'' he said in an interview last week. Of his current client, Citigroup, he says it has retained him as an adviser to provide strategic counsel on Washington matters related to the bank, and not as a lobbyist (meaning that he doesn't communicate with members of Congress, the White House or regulatory agencies regarding Citigroup). 
 ''I would classify myself as the worker bee that knows what I think would be of interest to him,'' he says of his work for Mr. Parsons. ''I feed him through the e-mail system quite a bit and give him my advice and counsel.'' 
 As for Mr. Black and his other critics, Mr. Hohlt says that his work with the league was ''prehistoric'' and that in the years since then he has built a reputation as an honest and experienced resource.
 ''I wish that everyone would comprehend that because of these past experiences, mistakes made, some problems that were created because of those mistakes, I can maybe offer more candid advice,'' he said. ''There has to be something said that a person who's been in the operating room and watched 13 surgeries may be a good person to watch the 14th. That makes me valuable because I can say: 'Don't do it! Don't let these guys come in and say they want to change the accounting.' ''
 Mr. Hohlt says that he has never been investigated by any government agency and that his record, lobbying activities and political dealings are transparent.
 Mr. Parsons says he hired Mr. Hohlt simply as a political adviser who provides information and counsel, and doesn't focus on particular legislation. ''He is an old Washington hand,'' Mr. Parsons said in a interview on Friday. ''I hired him to keep me in touch with what's going on in Washington and what the mood and tenor of the town is.''
 Mr. Hohlt's role is to solve problems and help Mr. Parsons communicate more effectively, but not to lobby on Citigroup's behalf. ''I don't bring him to meetings,'' he said. ''He is a useful source of information.''
 A spokesman said that Citigroup was paying Mr. Hohlt's fees, and that because he hadn't been retained as a lobbyist, his assignment did not need to be publicly disclosed.
 The savings and loan industry hasn't been Mr. Hohlt's only controversial client. He was the longtime lobbyist for Washington Mutual, arranging Capitol Hill meetings for the chief executive, Kerry K. Killinger, and advising the bank on regulatory matters that related to the Federal Home Loan Bank, according to Mr. Hohlt and a former associate. Washington Mutual collapsed in 2008, becoming the biggest bank failure in history. Mr. Hohlt said he wasn't aware of the bank's many problems. 
 ''I thought Kerry Killinger was a guy from Iowa who played in the band,'' said Mr. Hohlt, who said he lost thousands of dollars on WaMu stock when the bank failed. ''Maybe I should have done due diligence on things like that.'' 
 Mr. Hohlt has also represented the mortgage finance giant Fannie Mae, which was taken over by the government in September 2008 because of billions in mortgage losses. Once Fannie Mae went into federal receivership, it was banned from hiring lobbyists, including Mr. Hohlt. 
 Mr. Hohlt , an insider's insider who creates and executes political strategies, said he had known Mr. Parsons since 1989. Back then, Mr. Parsons was running Dime Savings Bank, an institution that, like others in the field, had been hurt by mortgage losses.
 Since then, Mr. Hohlt has lobbied for Time Warner, the media company that Mr. Parsons led from 2002 until 2008. He called Mr. Parsons ''a personal 20-year friend that appreciates that I will be candid and maybe tell him things that others will not and give him safe advice.'' He added that Mr. Parsons reached out to him because he ''didn't want to get in the cocoon.''
 One of his first assignments: At Mr. Parsons's request, Mr. Hohlt spent a Sunday in New York sitting in the back of the company's auditorium watching its executives and directors practice for the annual shareholder meeting on April 21. 
 ''I just sat and listened, and he asked, 'What do you think?' And I sent him a message saying what I thought,'' Mr. Hohlt says.
 But two people briefed on Mr. Hohlt's engagement with Citigroup, who requested anonymity because speaking publicly about the situation would jeopardize their jobs, say Mr. Hohlt was also hired to advise Mr. Parsons on ways to blunt the demands of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, one of the bank's primary regulators. The F.D.I.C. agreed to insure some $300 billion of Citigroup's troubled assets in a loss-sharing arrangement last year and has been at loggerheads with the bank's management over stewardship of the sprawling enterprise.
 Mr. Hohlt said that it was a ''fabrication'' that he was hired to jockey with the F.D.I.C. ''I've never contacted anybody at the F.D.I.C.,'' he said.
 A spokesman for the F.D.I.C. declined to comment on Mr. Hohlt's hiring because the agency does not discuss specific institutions. ''Generally speaking, we expect banks to adhere to high ethical and reputational standards,'' said Andrew Gray, an agency spokesman.
 Citigroup does not show up in lobbying records as a client of Hohlt & Associates, Mr. Hohlt's Washington-based firm. And Mr. Hohlt said that he was ''not really'' advising Mr. Parsons on regulatory matters.
 ''My contract prohibits me from any kind of lobbying, and I'm fired if I do,'' he said of his assignment from Mr. Parsons. 
 A HOOSIER by birth and a former aide to Senator Richard G. Lugar, the Indiana Republican, Mr. Hohlt parlayed his connections and experience into a lucrative lobbying business. He is also a founding member of an informal Washington salon, known as the Off-the-Record Club, where prominent Republicans, including Vin Weber and Karl Rove, gather for dinner to trade strategy. Mr. Hohlt is also a well-known background source for Washington journalists.
 He surfaced in 2007 during the perjury trial of I. Lewis Libby Jr., an aide to former Vice President Dick Cheney. Mr. Hohlt had a cameo role in the leak that identified Valerie Wilson as a Central Intelligence Agency operative. The journalist who broke the story, Robert Novak, testified during the trial that he had given the column to Mr. Hohlt, a longtime source, before it was published. Mr. Hohlt said he gave the column to Mr. Rove, who was the White House's political director at the time.
 For the 2008 election, Mr. Hohlt gave about $108,700 in campaign contributions, nearly all to Republicans. During the 2004 re-election campaign of President George W. Bush, Mr. Hohlt was among the ''Super Rangers'' who raised more than $200,000. 
 Mr. Hohlt began working for Mr. Parsons at a time when Citigroup was increasingly reliant on the public's largess to remain viable. 
 The bank received two injections totaling $45 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program last year. It has also raised $45 billion in debt using the backing of the F.D.I.C. and, through its subsidiaries, had an additional $28 billion in commercial paper and interbank deposits backed by the F.D.I.C. While other banks have weaned themselves from the program, Citi has continued to issue debt under it.
 But the government is also on the hook for future losses at Citi. Late last year, regulators struck a loss-sharing deal with the bank covering a pool of assets that totaled $267 billion in the most recent financial statement. Under the terms of the arrangement, Citi will swallow the first $29.5 billion in losses on this pool; 90 percent of any additional losses will be borne by the government and the other 10 percent by Citi. 
 During the last decade, Mr. Hohlt and his firm also have done work for JPMorgan Chase and Sallie Mae, the student loan financing company. Mr. Hohlt was appointed to Sallie Mae's board by George H. W. Bush in 1991. 
 Beginning in 2007, Fannie Mae hired Mr. Hohlt's firm, even though as a savings and loan lobbyist two decades earlier, he had opposed the agency. ''We fought against Fannie Mae,'' Mr. Hohlt recalled. ''I made sure we got an amendment in a bill that prohibited them from having a PAC,'' or political action committee.
 Hohlt & Associates has been paid more than $7 million in lobbying fees in the last decade, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. From 2000 to 2006, it made $400,000 to $700,000 in lobbying fees each year. In 2007 and 2008, the business took off, exceeding $1 million annually. In 2008, the year the credit crisis began in earnest, more than half of the firm's increased business came from financial services firms. His clients also include Altria, the cigarette maker formerly known as Philip Morris; Bristol-Myers Squibb; Chevron; and the Nuclear Energy Institute.
 WHILE Mr. Hohlt's lobbying business appears vigorous, it is not nearly as high-profile as it was in his heyday as point man for the savings and loan industry and its lobbying group, the United States League of Savings Institutions. He reported to the president of the organization at the time, William O'Connell, and worked with a fellow lobbyist, James Freeman, to make sure that the industry's views were heard on Capitol Hill.
 Mr. Hohlt cultivated a close friendship with M. Danny Wall, a top aide to Jake Garn, the Utah Republican who was chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. 
 For decades, savings and loan associations were sleepy institutions that operated under tight restrictions on the loans they made and the interest rates they paid to depositors. But in 1982, with interest rates rocketing, the industry persuaded Congress to relax these restrictions. The Garn-St. Germain legislation (also named for Fernand J. St. Germain, Democrat of Rhode Island) freed savings and loans to make more-risky loans and eliminated the caps on interest rates that they could pay on deposits.
 Almost immediately, S.& L.'s were bought by high-rolling entrepreneurs who saw the opportunities in taking deposits that were insured by the government and lending them out to real estate developers. 
 Once this mania was under way, lobbyists for the industry worked hard to keep regulators at bay, former officials recall. ''The U.S. League was very active in trying to water down the capital requirements for S.& L.'s,'' recalled Kenneth McLean, former staff director to William Proxmire, the late Wisconsin Democrat who headed the Senate Banking Committee in 1987 and 1988. 
 Two former officials, a banking regulator and an under secretary of the Treasury, said they banned Mr. Hohlt from their offices. ''He wasn't my style,'' said Richard T. Pratt, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board president in the early 1980s. ''He was very aggressive I thought, kind of the caricature of a lobbyist.''
 Mr. Hohlt said his actions should be considered in the context of the times. He said there were fears that ''draconian'' regulatory action could set off a run on banks and even a depression.
 Mr. Hohlt noted the significant parallels between the savings and loan mess and today's financial crisis, only this time he says he is wiser.
 ''The mistake I did was follow the policy of the trade association,'' he said.
 Former regulators said they don't regard Mr. Hohlt's tenure as so benign. 
 ''The fact is, when it came to thrift matters in Congress, the U.S. League and many of its affiliates were the de facto government,'' said Edwin J. Gray, former head of the Federal Home Loan Bank, testifying before Congress in 1989. ''What the league wanted, it got. What it did not want from Congress, it had killed.''
 In an interview last week, Mr. Gray laughed when he heard that Mr. Hohlt continued as a paid advocate for financial institutions. ''He's a creature of Washington special interests and has been since I have known him, so I'm not surprised,'' he said. ''Memories are short when money is involved.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Hohlt, who shielded S.& L's as a lobbyist in the '80s.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIZ LYNCH)(BU1)
 Richard Parsons, Citi's chairman, says of Mr. Hohlt: ''I don't bring him to meetings. He is a useful source of information.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES)(BU6) CHART: Citigroup's Inside Man: A look at the lobbyist Richard F. Hohlt and his long connection to Richard D. Parsons, chairman of Citigroup.(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (77%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



271 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Number of Unclaimed Bodies Increases as Families Can't Afford Burials

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
Coroners and medical examiners across the country are reporting spikes in the number of unclaimed bodies and indigent burials, with states, counties and private funeral homes having to foot the bill when families cannot.
 The increase comes as governments short on cash are cutting other social service programs, with some municipalities dipping into emergency and reserve funds to help cover the costs of burials or cremations.
 Oregon, for example, has seen a 50 percent increase in the number of unclaimed bodies over the past few years, the majority left by families who say they cannot afford services. ''There are more people in our cooler for a longer period of time,'' said Dr. Karen Gunson, the state's medical examiner. ''It's not that we're not finding families, but that the families are having a harder time coming up with funds to cover burial or cremation costs.'' 
 About a dozen states now subsidize the burial or cremation of unclaimed bodies, including Illinois, Massachusetts, West Virginia and Wisconsin. Most of the state programs provide disposition services to people on Medicaid, a cost that has grown along with Medicaid rolls. 
 Financing in Oregon comes from fees paid to register the deaths with the state. The state legislature in June voted to raise the filing fee for death certificates to $20 from $7, to help offset the increased costs of state cremations, which cost $450. 
 ''I've been here for 24 years, and I can't remember something like this happening before,'' Dr. Gunson said. 
 Already in 2009, Wisconsin has paid for 15 percent more cremations than it did last year, as the number of Medicaid recipients grew by more than 95,000 people since the end of January, said Stephanie Smiley, a spokeswoman for the Wisconsin Department of Health Services.
 In Illinois, Gov. Pat Quinn tried to end the state's indigent burial program this year, shifting the financing to counties and funeral homes, but the state eventually found $12 million to continue the program when funeral directors balked. 
 The majority of burials and cremations, however, are handled on the city, county, town or township level, an added economic stress as many places face down wide budget gaps. 
 Boone County, Mo., hit its $3,000 burial budget cap last month, and took $1,500 out of a reserve fund to cover the rest of the year. While the sum is relatively low, it comes as the county is facing a $2 million budget shortfall, tax collections are down 5 percent and the number of residents needing help is expected to grow. 
 ''We've had a significant increase in unemployment, wages are dropping, industrial manufacturing jobs go away and companies scaled back or even closed their doors,'' said Skip Elkin, the county commissioner. ''But we feel an obligation to help families who don't have any assets.'' 
 The medical examiner of Wayne County, Mich., Dr. Carl Schmidt, bought a refrigerated truck after the morgue ran out of space. The truck, which holds 35 bodies, is currently full, Dr. Schmidt said. ''We'll buy another truck if we have to,'' he said. 
 Many places are turning to cremation, which averages a third to half the price of a burial. However, they will accommodate families' requests for burial. 
 Clyde Gibbs, the chief medical examiner in Chapel Hill, N.C., said the office typically averaged 25 to 30 unclaimed bodies each year. At the end of the 2008 fiscal year there were at least 60, Dr. Gibbs said. The office cremates about three-quarters of the remains, and scatters the ashes at sea every few years. 
 In Tennessee, medical examiner and coroners' offices donate unclaimed remains to the Forensic Anthropological Research Center, known as the ''Body Farm,'' where students study decomposition at the University of Tennessee. The facility had to briefly halt donations because it had received so many this year, said its spokesman, Jay Mayfield. 
 The increase in indigent burials and cremations is also taking a toll on funeral homes, which are losing money as more people choose cremation over burial. In 2003, 29.5 percent of remains were cremated; by 2008 the number had grown to 36 percent, according to the Cremation Association of North America, and it is expected to soar to 46 percent by 2015, according to the association's projection of current trends. 
 Don Catchen, owner of Don Catchen & Son Funeral Homes in Elsmere, Ky., who handles cremations of the poor in Kenton County, said the $831 county reimbursement for cremations was ''just enough to cover the cost of what I do -- I donate my time.'' 
 In Florida, where counties switched to cremation a few years ago to save on costs, Prudencio Vallejo, general manager of the Unclaimed Bodies Unit of the Hillsborough County Medical Examiner's Office, said cremations were $425, compared with $1,500 for a burial. They have risen about 10 percent this year, Mr. Vallejo said.
 ''Most people, the first thing that they say is 'We wouldn't be coming to you if we could afford to do it ourselves,' '' he said. 
 Broward County, Fla., paid for the cremation of Renata Richardson's daughter, Jazmyn Rose, who was born stillborn on Sept. 25, 2008. Ms. Richardson, 26, lost her job at an advertising agency in July and could not afford to pay. 
 The county spent about $1,000 on a cremation and pink urn, engraved with the baby's birth and death date, and a Bible passage. It now sits in the bassinette where she was to sleep. 
 ''I was strapped for cash, I was in mourning, and I didn't know what they were going to do with her,'' Ms. Richardson, of Davie, Fla., said. ''I was honored that they went that far to help me.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Forensic Anthropological Research Center trainees in Knoxville, Tenn., working with donated remains. Don Catchen, a funeral director, wiping off a small marker after a recent burial in Kentucky. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE
 MARK LYONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (90%); MEDICAID (90%); DEATHS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CREMATION (90%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); CLOSINGS (62%); FACTORY WORKERS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (59%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (59%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



272 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: The Buck Broke. So How to Retool Money Funds?

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
AFTER a fever of panic raced through the nation's money market mutual funds in September 2008, the industry and its regulators promised quick action on new rules that would restore health and confidence to that $3.6 trillion market.
 Investors are still waiting for new rules -- and the industry is warning that some proposals for a regulatory cure may do more damage than the original disease.
 The loudest debates have been over a proposal that would force money funds to allow their share prices to fluctuate.
 For decades, investors have come to expect money fund prices to remain fixed at $1 a share -- and with good reason. Although fund sponsors have repeatedly warned that they do not guarantee that price, they have also repeatedly bailed out any fund that seemed in danger of ''breaking the buck'' -- reporting a share price below a dollar. As a result, most investors consider money funds almost as safe as bank accounts. 
 A floating share price ''would ultimately destroy the industry'' by undermining that confidence, predicted Michael R. Rosella, who specializes in investment management law at Paul Hastings in New York.
 ''Folks use their money funds as checking accounts -- and without certainty about their principal value, they can't do that,'' Mr. Rosella said.
 Almost none of more than 150 letters filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission supported the idea of a floating share price, although the White House nevertheless wants regulators to take a look at it. Still, that lopsided debate has obscured other regulatory proposals that could have sweeping and unpredictable consequences for the industry and its investors.
 These proposals would create two categories of money funds, one for institutional investors and one for retail customers, and establish liquidity requirements that would inevitably allow retail funds to offer higher yields.
 Other ideas under consideration would require funds to upgrade their software to handle share prices below $1, acquire some kind of private insurance to protect them from a run during a panic, and honor giant-sized redemption requests by distributing actual securities, rather than cash.
 Critics of these proposals say they do not address what went so spectacularly wrong in September last year, when the giant Reserve Primary fund -- forced to abruptly write down its Lehman Brothers notes after Lehman's bankruptcy -- broke the buck in an avalanche of disorderly redemptions and touched off a run that spread across the already uneasy money fund industry.
 A temporary government guarantee program calmed the panic within a few days, but that program expired last month, and Reserve Primary fund investors are still waiting for the last of their frozen assets. Under a plan proposed by the S.E.C. and awaiting court approval, they could get as much as 99 cents back for each dollar invested. But the plan is opposed by many institutional investors, and additional litigation could delay the process.
 Obviously, one lesson that could be drawn from that drama is that Reserve Primary could have broken the buck without setting off a panic if money fund shares had routinely fluctuated above and below $1.
 But a floating share price would eliminate the threat of a run on money funds by eliminating money funds, said Mercer Bullard, founder of an advocacy group called Fund Democracy, and Barbara Roper, director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America, in a joint letter to the commission.
 Once the perceived safety of a stable price is gone, investors will simply search for yield, said James J. Angel, a securities law professor at Georgetown University. And that could ''push more investors into short-term bond funds with higher risks.''
 Another lesson from the run on the Reserve funds was that institutional investors, with their warp-speed timing and ''hot money'' habits, can turn a problem into a panic in a big hurry.
 INSTITUTIONAL investors were latecomers to the money fund market -- there were no statistics kept on their role until 1996 -- but they made up for lost time. They currently comprise 67.2 percent of total money fund assets, up from 32.6 percent in 1996.
 They were the first to race for the doors at Reserve, and their billion-dollar demands accelerated the pace at which things went haywire. That pattern was repeated across the marketplace.
 From this experience, the S.E.C. has concluded that money funds primarily serving institutional investors should be required to maintain a much bigger cash cushion than funds serving less-twitchy retail investors. It has proposed that fund boards sort themselves into one category or the other, with bigger cash cushions -- and, therefore, lower yields -- for the institutional funds.
 Paul Schott Stevens, president of the Investment Company Institute, the fund industry trade group, thinks that this is a really, really bad idea.
 Two big things could go wrong, Mr. Stevens said. Fearful of being second-guessed by regulators, every fund could err on the side of caution and label itself an institutional fund, leaving retail investors nowhere else to go. Or institutional investors could try to sneak into retail funds to capture those higher yields, leaving retail customers no safer than they are now.
 ''The real issue is not who the customers are, but how they behave,'' he said. Leaving it to fund managers to make that assessment and adjust their cash levels accordingly would provide greater safety, he added.
 But regulators worry that his approach would burden retail investors with lower yields than they would need to accept if the cash needs of the hot-money guys were not factored into the equation -- or, alternatively, allow funds to keep enough cash for retail redemption habits but too little for institutions.
 Another lesson is that a money fund's computer systems should be able to calculate share prices of less than $1, even if the fund never intends to break the buck. Those at the Reserve fund complex could not, and that greatly delayed the unwinding of those funds. 
 Regulators, obviously a little testy about this, point out that money funds should already have that software in place because there is no legal guarantee that they will never need it. But the industry argues that retrofitting every fund complex would increase fund costs while adding little benefit. 
 The idea of a private-sector source of insurance that fund sponsors could tap in a crisis was specifically raised by the White House, which has directed the President's Working Group on Financial Markets to study the concept. Indeed, some large fund companies are quietly exploring the notion on their own, although Mr. Stevens declined to comment on that effort. 
 The S.E.C. proposals, however, are silent on that option -- which strikes some critics as strange, because liquidity insurance is the one thing that might reliably have prevented the Reserve run.
 But the approach raises a number of questions: Can money funds afford the expense? Would the cost further erode yields? And would it perversely encourage reckless fund managers -- the familiar ''moral hazard'' issue?
 PAYING off large redemption orders with securities rather than cash is already an option, but one that money funds almost never use. The S.E.C. is studying the wisdom of requiring such in-kind redemptions, while industry critics say the current arrangement works fine. 
 If there's one undisputed lesson that regulators and the industry have drawn from the Reserve fund saga, it is that money funds need a better tool kit to deal with systemic panic like the one that followed Lehman's bankruptcy.
 The S.E.C. has proposed rules to allow funds to suspend redemptions more easily, but several critics argue that these proposals do not go far enough to protect the rights of investors caught in a forced liquidation, citing the difficulties that Reserve Primary investors have faced in getting the last of their money.
 Given how controversial these proposals are, it is perhaps a blessing that there's no sign they will be acted on quickly. The industry is still waiting for the report of the president's working group, which was supposed to report on Sept. 15 but has postponed until Dec. 1 to allow it time to review the S.E.C. proposals more fully.
 There are some signs that the market is weathering this continued uncertainty. While the assets in money funds have dropped since last March, trends suggest that investors are reacting more to rock-bottom interest rates than to safety concerns.
 But privately, regulators are clearly still worried that the industry and its investors are missing the larger picture. The goal of these new rules, they say, is not only to protect money fund investors from another economic debacle, but also to protect the economy from another money fund debacle.
 If doing that makes money funds less attractive to fund sponsors and investors, that seems to be a risk some regulators are ready to take.
 Fair enough, said Mr. Rosella, the fund industry lawyer. ''But if you're going to kill money funds, do it directly,'' he said. ''Don't kill them accidentally.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Institutional Takeover: Institutional investors' share of money market fund assets, less than a third in 1996, had grown to more than two-thirds of this $3.6 trillion market by August, prompting regulators to propose that they hold more cash.(Source: Investment Company Institute)(BU29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



273 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: A Path to China, Through Carnegie Hall

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

 BODY:
THE Berlin Philharmonic residency two years ago, the Bernstein festival last season: as elaborate as they were, these were no great surprises coming from Carnegie Hall. A similarly elaborate Chinese festival? This is a surprise.
 ''Good!'' Clive Gillinson, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall, said feistily in a recent interview. Surprise is obviously some of what Mr. Gillinson is after in the current run of Carnegie festivals. In addition to examining ''the roots of American music,'' he said, they are meant to explore ''major international themes.''
 And this one is as international as it gets. Ancient Paths, Modern Voices: Celebrating Chinese Culture is a three-week festival with performances beginning in Zankel Hall on Oct. 21 and shared with the Philharmonic Society of Orange County in California, where performances begin on Thursday and run in more leisurely fashion for six weeks. 
 Mr. Gillinson is quick to acknowledge that Chinese music, in any traditional sense, is almost antithetical to the traditional Carnegie concert format. At least until the mid-20th century, music in China was seldom seen as something to be presented on a proscenium stage and contemplated in isolation by sedentary, silent listeners. It was often a part of daily life, if not integral to the performance of a particular activity or ritual then as background for socialization. And when it did rise to the level of artistic aspiration, it was typically part of a larger catchall form, as in Chinese opera, which includes not only music, drama, dance, costuming and decor but also acrobatics and martial arts.
 But traditions have given way, both in China and at Carnegie Hall. Much note has been taken recently of the newfound hunger for Western classical music in China, though that is not entirely novel. The Shanghai Symphony Orchestra, which closes the Carnegie festival on Nov. 10, was founded in 1879, making it older than any major current American orchestra but the New York Philharmonic.
 Still, there is ample evidence of the latter-day enthusiasm, not to say mania, for Western-style music in the Carnegie programming. It takes many forms.
 There is, for one thing, music by Chinese composers who have brought fresh perspectives to Western idioms, beginning with the vaunted Class of 1978, members of the first class at the Central Conservatory in Beijing after the dark decade of the Cultural Revolution, several of whom have established themselves prominently in America, like Tan Dun, Chen Yi and Zhou Long. A wide range of contemporary Chinese classical music is to be performed by American ensembles including the St. Louis Symphony, the Atlanta Symphony, the Juilliard Orchestra and the Ensemble ACJW. 
 There are also notable Chinese performers of Western music, including the pianists Lang Lang and Yundi Li and the conductor Long Yu, the music director of the Shanghai Symphony. In addition to performing in the festival, many of these composers and performers had a hand in shaping it, as Mr. Gillinson sought their advice in what he called ''a big R & D project.''
 ''There is no one person who knows it all,'' he said. ''The aim was to use all the heads, to get the best ideas on the table.''
 If Chinese music has opened up in recent decades, so has Carnegie Hall, particularly in Mr. Gillinson's festivals, which have been studiedly multidisciplinary and multi-institutional. For Ancient Paths, Modern Voices, Carnegie lists as New York festival partners the Asia Society, the China Institute, the Museum of Chinese in America and others.
 But perhaps the key to making an event like this one possible, Mr. Gillinson said, is the availability of the six-year-old Zankel Hall, a versatile, relatively informal medium-size space that allows for concerts that stray from the traditional model. Zankel will be home to two evenings of the traditional music that would seem so incompatible with Carnegie's mission but goes to the very heart of the festival.
 These will be curated by Wu Man, the brilliant virtuoso on the pipa, a Chinese lute with an assertive voice (if such a thing can be imagined in a lute). Ms. Wu, who was born in Hangzhou and now lives in San Diego, made several trips back to China to find out, ''What is the real Chinese music?'' she said recently in an interview that included a visit to the exhibition ''Silk and Bamboo: Music and Art of China'' at the Metropolitan Museum, an already existing part of the festival.
 Ms. Wu listened to performers in many areas, jamming along at times, but she never did arrive at a singular answer as to what constitutes the ''real'' Chinese music. ''Most of what we have in the West is Chinese city music,'' she said. ''I wanted to find worthy music never heard outside villages, never in cities.''
 And so she will present performances of rural music, ranging from ancient court and ritual melodies to folk tunes. ''I hope the festival can help China realize that this is the identity of Chinese music, the best part of Chinese music,'' she said. ''I'm sure it will change. I hope it won't disappear.'' 
 Ms. Wu fell in love with a richly decorated Ming dynasty pipa in the Met exhibit that she has not yet managed to lay hands on, but she is determined. She is also a principal in a project peripheral to the festival, ''A Chinese Home,'' a meditation on Chinese history developed in collaboration with the Kronos Quartet, as part of its Carnegie Perspectives series, and Chen Shi-Zheng, the director of an epic and well-traveled staging of the 16th-century Chinese opera ''The Peony Pavilion,'' among other things. The production, to take place on Nov. 3 in Zankel Hall, was inspired by a 300-year-old house transported from southeastern China to Salem, Mass., where it was reassembled at the Peabody Essex Museum.
 ''There are so many stories in this home that could have happened to any kind of family,'' Ms. Wu said.
 ''We have no composers,'' she added, seemingly as a point of pride. The creators sifted through Chinese musical history themselves to compile folk songs and other indigenous samples.
 Ambitious as it is, Ancient Paths, Modern Voices is not without disappointments for Mr. Gillinson. He originally hoped to begin it with an example of Beijing opera, which fell victim to the economic downturn, the only such casualty. But he does not count it a serious loss in a series that can only touch the surface of such a vast subject.
 ''We're not trying to write an encyclopedia,'' he said. ''You don't read an encyclopedia for fun. We're trying to write a novel.''
 He points out that the event that will instead begin the festival, a performance by the Quanzhou Marionette Theater, though smaller in scale than the typical Chinese opera, is similarly inclusive. 
 Mr. Gillinson's other disappointment, he said, was the inability to make classroom education a substantial part of the festival, given the specialized knowledge that would be required to teach the subject. Even so, there will be a wide range of neighborhood and community events, particularly in Queens.
 ''We're trying to give lots of tastes of things,'' he said. ''We'll go on exploring. We hope this is only the beginning of the journey.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Wu Man, the pipa player who will curate two evenings of traditional Chinese music at Zankel Hall. Above, the Zhang Family Band, which will perform in one of those concerts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CARNEGIE HALL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); DANCE (69%); MARTIAL ARTS (50%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



274 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Maybe We're Getting Ahead of Ourselves

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE sharp rally in stocks continued virtually without letup in the third quarter, as hope spread on Wall Street and in Washington -- though perhaps not as swiftly elsewhere -- that the recession was on the verge of ending.
 The new spirit of optimism could scarcely be imagined early in the year, when many were heralding the onset of a second Great Depression, but the market turnaround is not unfounded. Economic reports throughout the quarter on the housing market and the manufacturing sector showed improvement, if not the sorts of numbers common during a normal expansion. 
 Earnings have been better than many analysts expected, and estimates for future quarters continue to rise. Consumer confidence has rebounded from record lows, even though it remains subdued and took another lurch downward last month. And fewer jobs are being lost. 
 A growing belief that the worst is past, and a waning aversion to risk, helped to prolong the advance in stocks. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 15 percent in the quarter, bringing the gain from the March 6 low to 58.5 percent. 
 Fund owners captured every bit of the third-quarter gain. The average fund in the Morningstar database specializing in American stocks rose about 16 percent; the average long-term bond fund was up 9.8 percent, in a very strong three-month performance.
 Although the markets have been impressive, some investment advisers contend that the extent of the rally is unwarranted. Expectations have leapfrogged developments, they say, having gone from extreme skepticism about a recovery to high confidence that one is under way, even as earnings remain depressed, housing is still in the doldrums and jobs continue to disappear.
 In their judgment, all of that leaves stocks in a precarious position. If more evidence of growth emerges, it may only confirm what investors already anticipate and have priced in, leaving little scope for further gains. And if it turns out that they have jumped the gun and that the downturn will persist, the shock may send the market into a reversal.
 ''It's been a wonderful ride since March 6, and a huge part of it was this quarter,'' said Brett Hammond, chief investment strategist at the financial services company TIAA-CREF, ''but we've gotten stretched and I don't think the fundamentals are there to support a continuation of this rally.''
 Mr. Hammond noted that stocks were priced at roughly 20 times earnings, high by historical standards. ''The probability of sustaining the rally has dropped considerably, and the risk is more that we'll stagnate or suffer a moderate correction,'' he said.
 Tobias M. Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup, invoked history to show how extraordinary the market action has been. Since 1929, stocks have risen 47 percent, on average, in the two years from the trough reached in a recession, he pointed out, while the 58.5 percent gain this time around has come in just six months or so.
 ''It appears we're starting to go a bit too far on the upside,'' he said. It could be argued that the depth of the preceding decline ''gave you more of the elastic bungee-jump type of thing,'' he added, ''but we continue to think that some correction is likely.''
 Mr. Levkovich says he believes the catalyst for a pullback will be what he sees as excessive optimism incorporated into analysts' earnings estimates for 2010. Estimates are being raised at a higher rate than at any point since the bull market top in 2007.
 Much of the rebound in the economy and stocks has been attributed to the stimulus programs orchestrated by the Obama administration, the Federal Reserve and Congress. Those stopgaps solved some problems, but they created others, said David Kovacs, chief investment officer of quantitative strategies at Turner Investment Partners.
 ''The U.S. had the most unprecedented and aggressive stimulus that financial markets have ever seen, with massive liquidity and credit available to anyone who wanted it,'' Mr. Kovacs said. ''When you have a lot of money available, practically for free, it has to go somewhere -- the stock market, Treasuries, gold, any asset that's not cash.''
 Investors will take it, of course. Stock funds that fared better than average in the quarter included specialists in real estate, financial services, tech, industrials and energy. High-yield bond funds, taxable or municipal, did well, too, each up more than 13 percent.
 The bull market has not just been a home-grown affair. International equity funds gained 18.7 percent, with funds focusing on Europe and emerging markets up more than 20 percent.
 Stimulus programs help explain the gains in many investments, but in Mr. Kovacs's view they do not justify them. ''This liquidity-driven rally has not been the healthiest rally,'' he said. ''It's not the real thing. The jury's still out on whether this sticks.''
 Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at the TCW Group, is ready to render a guilty verdict. He foresees the after-effects of the stimulus efforts becoming a drag on stocks and the economy before long. ''The continued run-up in equity prices is simply not sustainable,'' he said. ''We're in bubble territory now. The next phase is when we see consumer sentiment dampen, the unemployment rate up and the sheer weight of fiscal deficit coming down on the market.''
 He expects the economy to take a second dip. He estimates that it grew 2 percent in the third quarter and predicts 1 percent growth in the current quarter and a 2 percent drop in the first three months of 2010.
 Henry J. Herrmann, chief executive of Waddell & Reed, is more optimistic -- for now. He foresees the upward momentum in stocks, and in investors' moods, continuing through the rest of the year.
 ''We're going to see things that historically have pleased investors,'' he said. ''There will be reasonably good demand for the holiday season because people feel a little more wealthy. Interest rates are relatively well behaved; earnings are good.''
 After that, shareholders may find that their hopes for earnings and the economy, especially job creation, are somewhat more than reality can deliver.
 ''Expectations may be dashed after the new year,'' Mr. Herrmann warned. Investors believe that the economy is ''going to be creating jobs and they're assuming that there will be pretty good earnings improvement in 2010. There are a lot of assumptions but not a lot of tangible evidence to build that on.''
 His advice is to hold shares of ''liquid, high-quality names'' in cheaper sectors like health care, ''but you would not want to chase performance in more dicey stuff.'' That includes pricier stocks and many bonds; investors too scared to buy stocks have bid up bonds to what he sees as dangerous valuations.
 MR. SRI-KUMAR sees that same flight to safety as less than airworthy. He says he believes a bubble is forming in Treasury bonds. As the yield on 10-year bonds descended below 3.3 percent, he said: ''Would you lend to your brother-in-law at 3.3 percent? If you wouldn't, then why lend to Uncle Sam at 3.3 percent for 10 years?''
 Bubbles may become the rule, not the exception. Mr. Hammond sees this as ''an era of bubbles'' and advises staying well diversified, continually selling anything that rallies far and fast and buying what has been largely shunned. In stocks today, that might mean selling technology and buying utilities.
 Mr. Kovacs also advocates a broadly diversified portfolio that is rebalanced often to ensure that assets are bought low and sold high. But he sees no need to rush, especially into stocks.
 ''I would be cautious,'' he said. ''If you're not in the market, it's not the time to jump in. Keep watching.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THIRD QUARTER: JULY 1SEPT 30, 2009: STOCKS VS. BONDS: Average returns, by fund category.
GROWTH VS. VALUE: Returns in the third quarter
SECTOR BY SECTOR
LEADERS AND LAGGARDS: Among general domestic stock funds (Source: Morningstar)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM ROBINSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); BOND FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



275 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; 21ST CENTURY BABIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3367 words

HEADLINE: The Gift of Life, and Its Price

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
Scary. Like aliens. That is how Kerry Mastera remembers her twins, Max and Wes, in the traumatic days after they were born nine weeks early. Machines forced air into the infants' lungs, pushing their tiny chests up and down in artificial heaves. Tubes delivered nourishment. They were so small her husband's wedding band fit around an entire baby foot.
 Having a family had been an elusive goal for Jeff and Kerry Mastera, a blur of more than two years, dozens of doctor visits and four tries with a procedure called intrauterine insemination, all failures. In one year, the Masteras spent 23 percent of their income on fertility treatments. 
 The couple had nearly given up, but last year they decided to try once more, this time through in-vitro fertilization. Pregnancy quickly followed, as did the Mastera boys, who arrived at the Swedish Medical Center in Denver on Feb. 16 at 3 pounds, 1 ounce apiece. Kept alive in a neonatal intensive care unit, Max remained in the hospital 43 days; Wes came home in 51. 
 By the time it was over, medical bills for the boys exceeded $1.2 million. 
 Eight months later, the extraordinary effort seems worth it to the Masteras, who live in Aurora, Colo. The babies are thriving and developing their own personalities -- Wes, the noisy and demanding; Max, the quiet and serious. Like many other twins conceived through in-vitro fertilization, the Mastera boys will go down in the record books as a success -- both for the fertility clinic that helped create them and the neonatologists who nursed them to health. 
 But an exploration of the fertility industry reveals that the success comes with a price. While IVF creates thousands of new families a year, an increasing number of the newborns are twins, and they carry special risks often overlooked in the desire to produce babies. 
 While most twins go home without serious complications, government statistics show that 60 percent of them are born prematurely. That increases their chances of death in the first few days of life, as well as other problems including mental retardation, eye and ear impairments and learning disabilities. And women carrying twins are at greater risk of pregnancy complications.
 In fact, leaders of the fertility industry and government health officials say that twins are a risk that should be avoided in fertility treatments. But they also acknowledge that they have had difficulty curtailing the trend. 
 Many fertility doctors routinely ignore their industry's own guidelines, which encourage the use of single embryos during the in-vitro fertilization procedure, according to interviews and industry data. Some doctors say that powerful financial incentives hold sway in a competitive marketplace. Placing extra embryos in a woman's womb increases the chances that one will take. The resulting babies and word of mouth can be the best way of luring new business.
 Doctors are also often under pressure from patients eager for children, who have incentives to gamble as well. Frequently, they have come to IVF as a last resort after years of other treatments, are paying out of pocket, and are anxious to be successful on the first try. And many do not fully understand the risks. 
 Dr. William E. Gibbons, incoming president of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, said his organization was concerned about the risks of twin pregnancies and would issue new guidelines at a meeting next week to further discourage multiple births. ''People should be made aware of the concerns that we think twins are not a good outcome,'' Dr. Gibbons said. 
 The industry creates preterm infants with in-vitro and other fertility treatments even as government and nonprofit groups work to fight the nation's 12.7 percent rate of prematurity, regarded as a major national health care problem. 
 While IVF multiples are typically the children of affluent women, much of the effort at reducing premature birth has been focused on prevention and prenatal care for low-income women. A study released last week by the March of Dimes cited fertility treatments as one of the main reasons for a 36 percent increase in prematurity in the last 25 years. 
 The government estimates that caring for premature infants costs $26 billion a year, including $1 billion for IVF babies, expenses that eventually get passed through the system and on to businesses and consumers. 
 The unusual birth of octuplets in California in January notwithstanding, the American Society for Reproductive Medicine and its affiliate, the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology, have succeeded in reducing the number of larger multiple births from in-vitro fertilization over the last several years. 
 The two medical organizations and the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have been promoting the use of single embryos in many cases to reduce the number of twins. But that has not translated into major action at the 483 fertility clinics across the country. The latest figures from the industry show that women under 35, the group most likely to get pregnant from the treatments, choose to use single embryos in only 4.5 percent of in-vitro rounds. 
 ''You can't convince a couple that having twins is a bad thing,'' said Dr. Maurizio Macaluso, who runs the C.D.C.'s women's health and fertility branch. ''That's a major communication problem.'' 
 In 2006, a record 137,085 twins were born in the United States, double the number in 1980. Of that total, 23,284 were the result of IVF, according to government statistics. The number does not include twins born as a result of other fertility treatments. 
 Most fertility doctors acknowledge the potential problems with twins, whether conceived naturally or through fertility treatments. But many say that the good done by their industry -- creating new families -- outweighs the bad, and that twins are not such a risky bet because most are healthy.
 ''At the end of the day, when you dissect the statistics out, our patients are interested in establishing a family and a pregnancy,'' said Dr. Michael Swanson, a Colorado fertility doctor who treated Ms. Mastera.
 It is a tricky cost-benefit analysis, however, and one that potentially involves the worst kind of collateral damage, the type that figures in the nightmares of expectant parents. 
 Erin and Scott Hare of Houston lost their twin daughter, conceived through in-vitro fertilization. Her surviving brother, Carter, who was born at just over 24 weeks, is doing well but needs therapy for lingering problems. 
 George and Narine Nazaretyan of Van Nuys, Calif., have twin daughters conceived through IVF. One of the girls, Natlie, has a severe case of cerebral palsy, which occurs four to six times as frequently in twins as in single babies. 
 Cutting down preterm births from IVF would be an easy way to make a small dent in reducing the nation's prematurity problem. Dr. Macaluso calls them ''low-hanging fruit'' -- a partial solution that is within reach. 
 But there is concern among public health officials that the problem may instead grow as fertility treatments become available to more people. 
 ''In the past few years, we have felt increasingly uncomfortable because we feel like we are sitting on the tip of the iceberg,'' Dr. Macaluso said. 
 Pressure for Success 
 In the competitive marketplace for fertility medicine, success rates are the metric by which in-vitro clinics thrive or fail. The rates -- meaning the chances of producing a baby at each clinic -- are published by the C.D.C. and are widely used by couples to choose a doctor. 
 Congress passed a law in 1992 that required the data to be disclosed after some clinics were exaggerating their numbers to lure potential clients. But there is evidence that the law has had the unintended effect of pressuring doctors to transfer multiple embryos to maximize their success rates.
 ''If a person does not have as high a pregnancy rate as his neighboring competitor, they're going to lose those prospective patients,'' said Dr. David Kreiner, medical director of East Coast Fertility, a network of fertility centers based in Plainview, N.Y.
 A busy fertility clinic can be extraordinarily lucrative, generating millions of dollars a year. And fertility doctors can take on godlike status in their communities for delivering their priceless commodities. 
 Knowing that prospective parents can easily seek IVF elsewhere, doctors give them unusual autonomy in deciding how many embryos to transfer. 
 For many in-vitro patients, the high cost of treatment is often a factor in making that decision. When Ms. Mastera had the procedure at Conceptions Reproductive Associates of Littleton, Colo., in September 2008, she was a candidate for single embryo transfer under industry guidelines. At age 32, and having never before undergone in-vitro fertilization, her chances for pregnancy were excellent. 
 Conceiving a child had become an obsession for the couple, who had met in 2000 while working as customer service representatives for Nextel. By 2006 they were married, living in a modest split-level home in Aurora and ready to start a family.
 ''I just told Jeff one day, 'I think we should get off birth control; I'm ready,' '' said Ms. Mastera, who was 30 at the time. ''He was like, 'O.K., let's do it.' ''
 After trying unsuccessfully for more than a year, the couple consulted two fertility specialists in 2007 and spent more than $15,000 on the four rounds of intrauterine insemination. 
 ''You're an emotional basket case because you're on these hormones,'' Ms. Mastera said. ''We'd be constantly worried about money. Like constantly. How are we going to pay our phone bill this month? Or our mortgage? Because we're having to pay for all these fertility treatments.'' 
 In-vitro fertilization was the next logical step, but the price tag was even more daunting. Depending on the clinic, its location and the extra services included in the treatment, the procedure can run $12,000 a cycle to more than $25,000.
 In 2008, the Masteras consulted their third fertility expert, Dr. Swanson at Conceptions. They chose him partly based on his clinic's high success rates as published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 Ms. Mastera's insurance would cover about $8,000 for the procedure and drugs. Frequently, insurance does not cover anything. Almost $18,000 in clinic fees and other costs remained for the couple, who proceeded to cash out their 401(k) and money market accounts and put the remaining balance on a low-interest credit card.
 Like many families, the Masteras could not afford a second cycle. So when the couple was given a choice by their doctor of implanting one or two embryos, they decided to increase their chances with two. 
 ''This was our Hail Mary pass,'' said Ms. Mastera, now 33. ''We thought, let's just do it. At the time, it was like, twins, they can be fun. They are fun, but holy cow.''
 Some public health experts are frustrated by the disconnect between the medical risk of twins and society's perception. 
 Twins are celebrities and celebrities have twins. The pop culture media goes into overdrive when stars like Angelina Jolie and Jennifer Lopez give birth to twins. 
 ''When they have their twins, it's a very acceptable thing,'' said Dr. Frank L. Mannino, medical director of the neonatal intensive care unit at the University of California, San Diego, Medical Center. The center expanded the unit last year, citing increased demand for the services, largely because of the use of fertility treatments.
 Dr. Alan R. Fleischman of the March of Dimes, which has begun distributing literature discussing single embryo transfer, said a result of playing down the risks of multiple births is that many women undergoing in-vitro prefer to have twins. 
 ''It's not just a matter of hoping that if you put two embryos in, you'll get one baby,'' Dr. Fleischman said. ''There are many women who actually want to have two children and would like to have their full family with one pregnancy.''
 The Risks
 The problems began at week 24 of Ms. Mastera's pregnancy. 
 The human uterus is designed to carry one fetus. An ultrasound on Jan. 7 showed that the extra burden of twins was placing pressure on her cervix, causing the amniotic sac surrounding Max to begin pushing through. 
 ''I was really stunned; I couldn't believe what was going on,'' said Ms. Mastera, who had not been having symptoms. ''They came in and said, 'You are going into surgery right now.' '' As doctors tried to comfort her, Ms. Mastera said, she began crying uncontrollably. 
 In a procedure called a cerclage, doctors pushed the sac back into her uterus, then stitched up her cervix. 
 ''The doctor said that if she were pregnant with one, she would have been just fine,'' said her husband, Jeff, 31. ''The sheer weight of the babies was just pushing them lower and lower.'' 
 After the procedure, Ms. Mastera was ordered to remain in bed at home. Doctors hoped she would make it close to her April due date. But on the night of Feb. 15, Ms. Mastera's water broke.
 Her boys were born the next day, and were not the healthy babies she had dreamed of. ''They wheeled me in, after I had recovered for an hour,'' she said. ''And it was weird. They looked really frail and unhealthy.''
 Ms. Mastera said she was aware of the risk of prematurity with twins and had discussed the issue with Dr. Swanson before having the in-vitro procedure. Informed-consent documents given to patients by fertility doctors normally detail the increased risk of twins. But even with those increased risks, the actual number of serious outcomes like fetal death or brain damage is small. 
 While the average single pregnancy in the United States now last about 39 weeks, the average twins are born at just over 35 weeks, , according to the Institute of Medicine. And there is emerging evidence that babies born at that time can develop learning problems. 
 ''There's increasing evidence that the 34-, 35-, 36-weekers, the bigger prematures -- and there are large number of those -- have significant problems with learning later on, even though their mortality isn't high'' said Dr. Richard E. Behrman, a pediatrician and former vice president and dean of medical affairs at Case Western Reserve University who led the institute's committee on preterm birth in 2006. ''And that's not appreciated in the obstetrical and lay community.''
 According to one federal study, about 30 percent of all twins end up in a neonatal intensive care unit. Twins are eight times as likely as single babies to be born at very low birth weight -- defined as under 3 pounds, 4 ounces. These are the babies who often need the longest care and face the biggest problems. Dr. Macaluso calls them ''million-dollar babies.''
 Carter Hare, the son of the Texas couple, was one of them. His birth announcement in December 2006 gave a hint of the trouble: ''Carter is born! 24 weeks 4 days.''
 His health was touch and go. ''They gave us a very grim outlook,'' his mother, Erin Hare, said recently. 
 Doctors were aware early on that Ms. Hare's pregnancy might be complicated. Three months before becoming pregnant with in-vitro twins she had miscarried a single in-vitro baby because of a condition called incompetent cervix, a problem similar to Ms. Mastera's. 
 After becoming pregnant with the twins, Ms. Hare had her cervix stitched closed to keep her babies in place and remained hospitalized for much of the pregnancy. 
 At 20 weeks, an ultrasound showed that her baby girl's heart had stopped beating, an apparent result of acompressed umbilical cord. ''It was hard,'' Ms. Hare said. ''I actually at that point stopped accepting visitors. I put a 'Do Not Disturb' sign on the door.'' 
 In her solitude, Ms. Hare was fighting to continue carrying both her son and the lifeless body of her daughter, whose sac began bulging through her vagina, threatening the entire pregnancy. Doctors performed a second cervical surgery, continuing efforts to keep her son from being born before 24 weeks gestation, regarded as the point of viability. 
 He was born four days beyond that milestone, 12 inches long and weighing one pound, 12 ounces. Carter spent 102 days in the neonatal intensive care unit at Presbyterian Hospital of Plano, near Dallas. 
 This year, Carter entered preschool. 
 ''He's really a little miracle baby,'' said Ms. Hare, a tax accountant. The family has since moved to Houston. Despite initial heart and eye problems, Carter did not require surgery. He receives therapy for sensory problems that sometimes develop in premature babies. 
 ''He wouldn't like being in a pool,'' Ms. Hare said. ''He would scream. His senses are just off. He has an extremely high tolerance for pain, then sometimes he's real sensitive. The whole sensory process, when they develop outside the womb, it just doesn't develop. It takes longer.'' 
 Despite her troubled pregnancy, Ms. Hare tried another round of in-vitro after Carter was born, this time undergoing a more invasive surgery that stitches the lower part of the uterus and the upper cervix together and requires an abdominal incision. 
 ''A lot of people thought I was crazy, but I didn't did feel our family was complete yet,'' Ms. Hare said. 
 On April 29, 2008, a daughter, Lauren, was born by Caesarean section at 36 weeks, 4 days. 
 The Price Tag
 In March, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the March of Dimes held a luncheon in Washington to discuss preterm babies. ''The human costs are staggering,'' Dr. Steven K. Galson, then the acting surgeon general, told the group. ''The medical costs are staggering. That's why we're here.'' 
 ''Today you're going to hear that preterm birth is not just a significant public health issue,'' Dr. Galson said, ''but that it also impacts businesses and employer health plans.''
 The hospitalization and doctor's care for Ms. Hare and her son exceeded $1 million. Most of that, about $750,000 to $800,000, was for Carter. The bill was picked up by the self-funded health plan of the Trammell Crow Company, the Dallas real estate investment company where Ms. Hare worked. 
 ''The following quarter during the earnings release, somebody asked why there was a sharp increase in medical costs,'' Ms. Hare said. No one identified her, but Ms. Hare knew that her family had contributed heavily.
 In Atlanta, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention hired an economist to predict what would happen if single embryo transfer were used in a large number of IVF cases. 
 Dr. Macaluso, the C.D.C. reproductive health official, estimates the patients, businesses and insurance providers would save more than $500 million annually, even taking into consideration the cost of extra in-vitro rounds, by lowering neonatal intensive care, special education and other costs of premature babies.
 To reduce the number of twins, some clinics are experimenting with programs that provide IVF with single embryo transfer with free freezing of extra embryos and free transfer of frozen embryos if the first try does not work. Others are working to develop ways to identify the specific characteristics of a single embryo that will turn into a healthy baby. 
 Dr. G. David Adamson, a former president of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, has advocated reducing the twins rate but says that the value of a baby should also be taken into account when discussing single embryo transfer. 
 ''How many healthy babies do we want and what's the risk and cost to the individual and society of having a baby with problems,'' Dr. Adamson asked. ''It's a complex question, and varies from patient to patient.'' 
 For the Masteras, the pain and anguish is fading as they watch their boys grow.
 Although they are at risk for developmental problems because of their prematurity, the boys are meeting milestones. Max can now sit up on his own, and Wes crawled for the first time last week. 
 Ms. Mastera still feels guilty, worried that she did something to make her boys premature. ''I don't know if I'll ever forget how horrible I felt about them coming early,'' Ms. Mastera said. ''And I don't know if I'll ever forget how we struggled.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mastera twins, in a family photo at 2 months old, each weighed only about 3 pounds at birth. They are doing well now, but the path was difficult.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MASTERA FAMILY)(A1)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
EARLY ARRIVALS: Kerry and Jeff Mastera with sons Max, left, and Wes, at home in Aurora, Colo., and at a day old.(PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF THE MASTERA FAMILY.)(A26)
MAKING IT: Carter Hare, above, who was born at just over 24 weeks
his twin sister died in utero. Right, Carter with his sister Lauren, also conceived through in-vitro fertilization.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT HARE
 MICHAEL RATHKE/RATHKE PHOTOGRAPHY)(A27) CHARTS: Risks and Costs of Multiple Embryo Transfer: In-vitro fertilization creates human embryos in a laboratory before placing them in a woman's uterus. Success rates are higher when two or more embryos are used. But that also increases chances of multiple births with babies often born premature and with low birth weight.(Sources: ''2006 Assisted Reproductive Technology Success Rates, National Summary and Fertility Clinic Reports'' by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. ''The Cost of Prematurity and Complicated Deliveries to U.S. Employers'' by Thomson Reuters for March of Dimes.)(A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (89%); TRENDS (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (74%); MENTAL RETARDATION (72%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); MARCH OF DIMES BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (56%) COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



276 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: A Market for Cars Born to Run

BYLINE: By PAUL STENQUIST

 BODY:
CAN the white-glove world of classic car collecting extend a welcoming hand to a juvenile delinquent with a ducktail haircut and a penchant for straight-line speed? Do recent high-dollar sales of retired drag-racing cars suggest a sustainable trend or a passing fancy? 
 Those questions were answered in part at a recent sale organized by RM Auctions, a respected auction house that typically sells investment-grade classics in conjunction with concours events at upscale locales like Pebble Beach, Calif., and Amelia Island, Fla. On Saturday, Sept. 26, at the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles, RM ventured outside the bounds of the classic-car world to sell 80 cars from the edge of the automotive universe in its Icons of Speed & Style auction. 
 Among this group, the most extreme were 16 drag-racing cars -- machines that many consider the black sheep of the automotive world. 
 There are clearly some shepherds out there with deep pockets; about half of the quarter-mile sprinters sold for amounts that exceeded RM's estimates. Some came in below estimate, but the group as a whole performed well. Given today's economic climate, the results suggest that there is a market for veterans of the dragstrip.
 Among the drag cars that failed to sell for their estimated value was a 1970 Chevelle convertible that once dominated the Super Stock category of the National Hot Rod Association. The car had brought $1.2 million in fevered bidding at a 2006 Barrett-Jackson auction; RM estimated its price at the Petersen sale at $500,000 to $700,000. It sold for $264,000, including a 10 percent buyer's premium. 
 Two funny cars that were once raced by a colorful competitor, Jungle Jim Lieberman, sold for about half of their six-figure estimates. Funny cars are specialized machines that carry replica body shells on steel-tube frames and are powered by supercharged, nitromethane-burning engines. These cars were nicely restored and well documented, but one was lacking an engine. 
 Among the cars that exceeded RM's estimates was the Wagon-Master, an insanely designed dragster with four (yes, four) Buick engines and bodywork that conveyed a touch of the Buick Riviera. The tire-smoking Wagon-Master was once owned and driven by Tom Ivo, who had been an early television personality and was known as TV Tommy Ivo at the track. It sold for $209,000, well above the estimate of $125,000 to $175,000.
 A 1929 Ford Roadster powered by a supercharged Ford flathead V-8, built by a drag-racing pioneer, Tony Nancy, was estimated at $125,000 to $175,000. It sold for $210,000. 
 But the car that outscored them all was the outrageous, wheelstanding Little Red Wagon pickup, which went for more than half a million dollars. 
 Neither the buyer of this offbeat vehicle nor the others who bought drag cars in Los Angeles were typical collectors. Ian Kelleher, president of RM, said the vast majority were new customers, compared with a new-buyer share of less than 40 percent at RM's usual auctions. In almost every way, the drag-car buyers are a different breed.
 ''I think drag cars will always be a niche segment,'' Mr. Kelleher said. ''They go to guys who are really involved in the sport.''
 Greg Mosley, who dug the deepest at the Petersen Museum auction and went home with the Little Red Wagon, is definitely a niche collector. Mr. Mosley, who heads a large distribution business for trailer parts, and his wife, Kathy, own a stable of 30 American performance cars with an emphasis on Chrysler products and drag cars. The collection is housed in a spacious private museum they built a few years ago in tiny Coal Valley, Ill. 
 Two days after the RM event, I called to get Mr. Mosley's take, not knowing he had bought a car at the auction. 
 ''We own the Little Red Wagon,'' he said. ''I didn't know I was going to get that stupid, but I did. It's a fascinating part of the sport I love.''
 The nature of the sport makes drag-car collecting problematic. Built for maximum acceleration in a 1,320-foot sprint, the vehicles have more in common with skyrockets than passenger cars. Many successful cars from the early years were lost when their day was done, either cannibalized for parts or sold for use in lower-level competition. But today, with a new breed of collectors willing to pay for the old warriors, finding the parts and pieces of historic drag cars has become a specialty.
 Mike Guffey of Muncie, Ind., is among the nation's pre-eminent locators of lost drag-racing cars. Mr. Guffey knows how to authenticate a find and has an uncanny ability to follow a trail. 
 He said he thought that origin confusion and the disappearance of some well-known cars might have led to the counterfeiting of older funny cars and rail-type dragsters -- one reason, he said, that some of these vehicles sell for less than expected. It's also why many drag-car collectors are attracted to factory-backed Super Stock and factory-experimental racecars of the late 1960s and early '70s. These cars were well documented and usually carry a VIN or serial number.
 Both the problems involved in generating a provenance for some historic drag cars and the bare-knuckle imagery of the sport suggest that most traditional collectors won't soon be parking a funny car next to the Ferrari. But the instinct for preservation is a powerful motivator.
 ''Kathy and I are trying to keep the heritage of mother Chrysler and drag racing alive,'' said Mr. Mosley, the buyer of the Little Red Wagon. ''That's what we do. We're caretakers, and this vehicle is deserving of special care.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHOW TIME: Little Red Wagon wheelstander, top, brought the highest price at the Petersen Museum auction. Above, the Tony Nancy Ford roadster, left, and the Jungle Jim funny car. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF RM AUCTIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOT ROD ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



277 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: When Emotions Move the Markets

BYLINE: By CONRAD de AENLLE

 BODY:
YOU may keep a cool head, dispassionately analyzing corporate results, economic data and emerging business trends to pick investments. But that doesn't mean that everyone else is just as reasonable. If others act irrationally, markets can be distorted and your returns eroded.
 Some portfolio managers, adherents of an academic discipline called behavioral finance, say that there is no ''if'' about it. They contend that investors are driven largely by emotions, the sort so vividly on display in the stock market during the last year.
 Those emotions cause investors to misjudge the impact of events in systematic ways, the theory goes. Identifying these patterns and trading against them, the managers say, allows them to enhance performance.
 ''Humans are emotional individuals, and that gets exaggerated when it comes to taking risks,'' said Christopher Blum, chief investment officer of the U.S. Behavioral Finance Group at J.P. Morgan Funds. ''There are errors that investors make. We try to exploit anomalies in valuations and momentum'' arising from those errors, he added. 
 Behavioral finance funds in Morgan's Intrepid and Undiscovered Managers series and in the Highmark, LSV and Allianz Nicholas-Applegate families, among others, often use ''quant'' or ''black box'' models. These are software programs that sift through data on thousands of stocks in a quest for those affected by such investor traits as ''anchoring'' and ''herding.'' 
 Anchoring occurs when new information about a company's prospects arrives and analysts are reluctant to alter their forecasts, which would be a tacit acknowledgment that their initial efforts were off the mark. The absorption of changed circumstances is drawn out enough to allow funds that react fairly early to benefit, managers say.
 ''Investors tend to underreact to positive fundamental change,'' said Horacio Valeiras, chief investment officer of Nicholas-Applegate Capital Management. The full response to events ''comes over time,'' he said, as investors abandon ''behaviors that are weighing them down.''
 Herding amounts to investors collectively saying, ''I'll have what he's having.'' A trend develops and newcomers latch onto it, reinforcing it and making it look profitable. That brings in more investors, and the cycle continues until valuations are stretched, often to nonsensical extremes, before snapping back when little money remains to keep it going.
 The tech bubble in the late 1990s was a notorious example. Another, in reverse, was the overall market collapse last fall and winter. Selling begat selling, and the lower prices went, the more it confirmed -- for a while -- that selling was the right thing to do.
 When herding occurs in a market, behavioral finance funds try to profit by recognizing that the valuation extremes are unjustified, and buying or selling accordingly.
 Although the role of emotion in investment may seem undeniable, especially lately, behavioral finance remains a niche discipline among investment professionals and academics. (Funds in Morgan's Undiscovered Managers series have ''behavioral'' in their name, but many others that use behavioral techniques don't.) 
 The more popular school of thought, the efficient-market theory, is based on the idea that asset pricing is rational and nearly perfectly reflects available economic and corporate information.
 The main point in favor of efficient markets is the widely observed inability of active portfolio managers to beat market averages. If markets were inefficient, there should be more evidence that investors with certain skills could beat their peers consistently and predictably.
 Followers of behavioral finance see high volatility and trading volume as confirmation that emotion plays a significant role in markets. If everyone has the same information and understanding, why do markets move at all, except for the few minutes or hours after major news? And what is the point of trading securities at any other time?
 Will Goetzmann, director of the International Center for Finance at Yale and an authority on behavioral finance, said advocates of efficient markets had begun to concede that there is a sizable psychological component to trading. And a grudging recognition is emerging that there are meaningful differences in talent, he said.
 ''There has been a reversal of this notion that there isn't any skill out there'' among fund managers, Mr. Goetzmann said. ''Research is finding that there are managers that have more skill than others and provide risk-adjusted value.''
 Whether many of those who run behavioral finance funds are among them is questionable. Many have produced results over the last 12 months that are in line with the broad stock market. They have also displayed slightly higher volatility. And as paradoxical as it seems, the comparative performance of these funds tends to diminish during periods of peak emotion. Managers point out that behavioral finance techniques work better when the craziness that distorts markets abates, not while it is in full force.
 The funds tend to be small, too, and therefore can have high expenses, often close to 2 percent of assets. That erodes returns even in the best of times.
 Christopher Davis, senior fund analyst at Morningstar, is reserving judgment on behavioral finance funds, which he considers to be undergoing their trial run. But he is generally unimpressed so far. ''It's fair to say that it's an emerging academic discipline,'' he said, ''and its application as an investment discipline isn't all that far along.''
 It's not clear what significant advantage can be gained from understanding the mechanisms driving investors' psyches. Just as someone sitting in a tree does not have to be Isaac Newton to know that falling out of it can hurt, an investor ignorant of the inner workings of his peers' minds can still recognize the merits of a stock that's cheap relative to the company's profits.
 ''The bottom line here is that there's a fancy theory underlying all these funds, but what they're doing isn't all that revolutionary,'' Mr. Davis said. ''They use quant screens to look for the cheapest stocks, but that's what fund managers have been doing for a long time.''
 AND Mr. Davis says that owning one of the funds doesn't ensure that a shareholder will be immune from the same emotions that trip up others.
 The best way to take principles of behavioral finance into account may not be to buy a specialty fund, he said, but to bear the principles in mind when making all investment decisions.
 ''Be sure you aren't falling into any of the behavioral traps,'' Mr. Davis advised. ''It would be really kind of ironic if you invested in a fund based on behavioral finance and you sold it after the fund had a big loss or added to it after it was up 50 percent.''
 ''It's hard not to be human,'' he added. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders on Wall Street last week. Behavioral finance advocates say investors can gain from emotional patterns in the market.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (91%); TRENDS (89%); HERD BEHAVIOR (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: NICHOLAS-APPLEGATE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (82%); ALLIANZ SE (58%)

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (58%); ALV (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



278 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Badges? They Don't Need No...

BYLINE: By NEIL DUNLOP

 BODY:
TO an American, the sight draws a blank. All over Europe one sees cars, mostly from high-end companies, that wear no nameplates or model designations. Where we would expect to find a nametag of gleaming letters and numbers on the tail, there's only an expanse of paint. 
 These nameless cars aren't rare in Europe, either. If not in the majority, they are a sizeable minority. 
 ''They're ordered from the factory that way,'' said Christian Bokich, a spokesman for Audi of America. In Germany, the reasons may be cultural. ''If a director of a medium-sized company purchases a V-12, he doesn't want to show it to his colleagues and have people judge him incorrectly,'' he said. The fear, he added, is that others might think, '''You're a jerk, you're too rich, you have too nice a car.'''
 Mr. Bokich said that while 25 percent of Audis were ordered with the ''badge delete'' option, the practice was more common with top models.
 ''It's a very German thing to hide your wealth,'' he said. Others may be trying to hide their lack of riches. In Munich a while back, a man driving an expensive BMW 650i -- its badge proudly displayed -- was asked why so many cars went badgeless. He answered, ''So no one can tell if they bought the cheap or expensive model.'' 
 How can you tell if you're looking at a 6-cylinder BMW 525i or a 540i with a V-8? Is that an Audi A4 2.0 or the more powerful (and costly) 3.2? Over there, that could be a luxurious but not uncommon Mercedes S500 -- or the top-of-the-line S65 AMG.
 In some cases an automotive sleuth can discern the truth by following secondary clues like exhaust pipes, body trim, wheels and other styling cues. Of course, only the hardest-core gearheads carry around a mental encyclopedia of model characteristics. And secondary clues can be misleading, given that fancy wheels and sporty trim can be ordered even for base models -- the equivalent of sewing an embroidered Polo pony onto a Gap shirt.
 Will Europeans' embrace of badgeless cars make its way across the Atlantic? It seems unlikely; unless the recession fundamentally changes the national psyche, Americans seem to prefer flaunting wealth, even if it's only pretend-riches. Officials at BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Audi say they haven't seen an uptick in requests for badgeless cars or post-sale label removal. 
 None of the companies offer a badge-delete option to American customers, but spokesmen for all three said the labels could be removed at dealerships. 
 In fact, Rob Moran, public relations manager for Mercedes-Benz USA, said it was more common for Americans to add badges. The results can be silly, like affixing an AMG label (signifying cars from Mercedes's high-performance division) to an older C-Class that was never offered in AMG form. ''Technically,'' he said, ''that car doesn't exist.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRUTH IN LABELING: If the badge disappears, who'll know it's a V-12? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



279 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IDEA LAB; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: India's Malnutrition Dilemma

BYLINE: By DAVID RIEFF. 
David Rieff, a contributing writer, is at work on a book about the international politics of food.

 BODY:
''This is a country on the make.'' The speaker was a young assistant to one of India's rising political stars. And from his perspective, it did look that way. We were sitting in the lobby restaurant of New Delhi's luxurious Taj Mahal Hotel. That evening, the Taj was not only the place for a government reception following Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's decisive re-election victory, but it was also the scene of a huge party for the aptly named Yes Bank as it celebrated $100 million in financing for a new private hospital.
 India is indeed booming: receptions of this kind have become commonplace since the early 1990s. The pace of change is impressive by any standard, and even more so in a country that, as recently as the late 1980s, had an economy in which it was said you needed the intercession of a member of Parliament just to get a telephone line. Today, middle-class Indians can enjoy many of the same pleasures and habits as their opposite numbers in Shanghai or Berlin, from cappuccino bars to multiplexes. It is hard to spend time in any major Indian city without getting the sense that the middle class is optimistic about their country's prospects. 
 When Lloyd Blankfein, chairman of Goldman Sachs, declares that the 21st century will be India's and that of the other so-called BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia and China), he has sound reasons for saying so. The self-confidence of the Indian corporate elite is even more arresting. Mukesh Ambani, head of one of the country's principal conglomerates, expressed a common view when he insisted that the 21st century ''belongs'' to India -- though he largely attributes this to demography, contrasting India's young population with the aging populations of the United States, Western Europe, Japan and China.
 But there is a ghost at the party, and its name is malnutrition. India is often compared -- and often compares itself -- with China, but the fact is that as China became an economic powerhouse it greatly reduced malnutrition. In an all-fronts effort, China cut child malnutrition by two-thirds between 1990 and 2002. Today only 7 percent of Chinese children under age 5 are underweight, whereas the figure for India is 43 percent. Even in sub-Saharan Africa, which most people assume to have the direst poverty statistics, the average child-malnutrition rate is 28 percent.
 The youthfulness that leaders like Ambani claim as the country's great competitive advantage could turn out to be the greatest stumbling block to Indian development and make it an also-ran to China. The science is disturbingly clear: if you are malnourished until age 3, your neural formation suffers, and most of that underdevelopment is fixed for life.
 As Prof. Lawrence Haddad, director of the Institute of Development Studies in the United Kingdom, puts it, ''India is an economic powerhouse and a nutritional weakling.'' Haddad has studied India for decades, advising both the national government and several Indian states -- nutrition in India being largely a state matter in practical terms. No one is quite sure why the nutrition situation in India is so dire. The lack of women's empowerment in both rural and urban areas is thought to play a major role. And so far, at least, the central government has been very slow to act. While India's per capita gross domestic product grew fourfold between 1992 and 2006 (the last period for which there are accurate statistics), the percentage of children age 3 and under who are underweight declined only to 46 percent from 52 nationally, and actually increased in some states.
 It is not clear that those who live in this newly prosperous India even take in the depth of the nutrition crisis. The activist Harsh Mander told me it was possible for middle-class people to live in ignorance of the poor and to persuade themselves that poverty was not as bad as all that. There is a great deal of denial. Haddad said that when he asked Indian journalists what the malnutrition rate was, they consistently underestimated it by half and were often incredulous when told the actual figures.
 Besides, chronic malnutrition is not necessarily visible. As Sejal Dand, an activist who runs a small N.G.O. in the northeastern tribal areas of Gujarat state, put it to me, ''If all the kids in a village are mildly stunted, that is, smaller than normal by World Health Organization standards, or if the child is somewhat but not acutely underweight and this is the way everyone looks, it's hard to mobilize either the villagers themselves or local officials.'' Even activists complain about the passivity among the Indian poor, rural and urban alike.
 These activists are at least persuaded that the national government and many of the states are sincere in wanting to address malnutrition. In 2008, Prime Minister Singh declared under-nutrition ''a curse we must remove,'' and he reaffirmed that commitment after his re-election. Moreover, it is almost certain that, after years of activist effort, a Right to Food Act will pass in Parliament. Most drafts call for a government-subsidized minimum of 25 kilograms (55 pounds) of food grain per family per month. There are enforcement provisions, the most important of which is that individual bureaucrats could be fined for failure. And yet many in India still seem convinced that while there are doubtless some things the government can and must do -- even among most free marketers, the Right to Food Act is no longer controversial -- only some version of ''trickle down'' economics will resolve the problem in the long term.
 The Right to Food movement is deeply divided between those who believe the bill is a good first step and those who believe it is doomed to failure unless Indian society is radically overhauled. But that overhaul would presumably involve a state willing to follow a course closer to that of China: a capitalist economy, to be sure, but one in which the state gave more of the orders (and saw that they were carried out). In India at present that outcome seems unlikely. A great many food activists seem both bewildered by the new capitalist India in which they find themselves and increasingly nostalgic for the all-controlling state that prevailed before the 1980s. After all, as Professor Haddad pointed out to me, it is not as if India lacks either the resources or the capacity to address food issues head-on. The proof of this is that famine, for so long the great curse of the country, killing millions, generation in and generation out, is now controlled. One grimly sardonic explanation for India's success at grappling with famine and its failure at coping with malnutrition was offered by N. C. Saxena, one of the great Indian experts on nutrition, who now consults for Unicef. ''Famine is something that can be portrayed in the media effectively,'' he told me, ''whereas chronic malnutrition -- well, it's very difficult to portray that, isn't it?'' Saxena added that the Indian state was capable when coping with emergencies but had trouble handling challenges that were endemic -- a view I heard expressed by many experts and activists.
 Overcoming malnutrition requires not just an end to denial but also a decision that eradicating malnutrition is as much of a priority for India as its recent decision to build a hundred new ships for its navy over the next decade. Biraj Patnaik, a principal architect of the Right to Food campaign, is intransigent on the topic: ''My question is if the government can spend 25 billion U.S. dollars on defense, why can't it spend an equivalent amount on ensuring the food security of the people of India?'' Smiling, he added: ''Of course it's a rhetorical question. I know perfectly well -- we all know perfectly well -- that neither the government this country now has or, for that matter, is ever likely to have, will ever lower the defense budget. But sometimes it's vital to ask rhetorical questions.'' 
 For many Indians, the Chinese example provides a counterpoint and possibly even a model. As an aid worker put it to me, ''Democracy is without question good for adults, but I'm not convinced it's necessarily the friend of small children.'' What she meant was that the undemocratic Chinese government had the power to make malnutrition a priority and spend what it took to reduce it to comparatively inconsequential levels. 
 Of course it doesn't require a highly authoritarian regime to run a successful nutrition program: Brazil and Thailand both did so in the 1980s. But these efforts nonetheless depended on a very heavy government hand. In an emergency, even democracies declare martial law. Chronic malnutrition is an emergency; it just doesn't look like one. So while China advances, India risks not only being left behind but also squandering a moment otherwise filled with excitement and promise. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In India, 43 percent of children under age 5 are underweight. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN SPRAGUE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALNUTRITION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BRIC COUNTRIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); AGING TRENDS (66%); POVERTY RATES (66%); CHILDREN (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); AGING (50%)

COMPANY: YES BANK LTD (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: YESBANK (NSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (50%); MUKESH AMBANI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (75%) EAST CHINA (70%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



280 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2189 words

HEADLINE: On a Mission To Loosen Up The Louvre

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: Paris 

 BODY:
 IN a subterranean space far below the swarms of tourists crowding the Louvre's famed pyramid are remnants of a medieval fortress. Here, along a 12th-century sandstone passage, the American artist Joseph Kosuth is about to suspend 15 sentences in giant white neon tubing. The show, ''Neither Appearance Nor Illusion,'' which opens this month, is a first for the 64-year-old Mr. Kosuth. ''You only get to do something at the Louvre once in a lifetime,'' he said, explaining that he picked the museum's catacombs rather than a conventional gallery because ''it's a place I've always loved, it gets a lot of traffic and has never been used for contemporary art before.'' 
 Neither has the 16th-century Salle des Bronzes, which will soon be famous not just for its magnificent collection of ancient bronzes but for its ceiling, which is about to painted by another celebrated figure of American art: Cy Twombly. 
 ''I'm really not doing something new,'' Henri Loyrette, the Louvre's director, said as he was sprinting through the museum's galleries one recent morning. ''I'm trying to revive a tradition.'' 
 Mr. Loyrette -- who arrived at the Louvre in 2001 after 18 years at the Musee d'Orsay-- was referring to 1953, when Georges Braque decorated the ceiling in an ornate gallery that was once Henri II's antechamber. Since then the Louvre has been primarily focused on burnishing the reputation of dead artists, not promoting new ones, especially if they're American. 
 But there seems to be an infusion of many things American at the Louvre these days. 
 In addition to seeing site-specific installations by high-profile contemporary artists, one might also hear American writers like Toni Morrison or see performances by the choreographer and dancer Bill T. Jones. Memberships conferring extra privileges, long a standard option at American museums, started here in 2006. Mr. Loyrette also ushered in free admission on Friday nights to anyone under 26. (To make Americans feel even closer to home, a McDonald's restaurant and McCafe are planned to open near the Louvre next month.) 
 Mr. Loyrette has also been charging about the world in what many might call an American manner -- drumming up donations from Cincinnati to Hong Kong, as well as trading on the Louvre's brand and collection to raise cash from Atlanta to Abu Dhabi. 
 Not surprisingly, his approach has not been popular with everyone. Critics seem to view the idea of branding the Louvre as both crass and unnecessary, and are particularly dismissive of Mr. Loyrette's outreach abroad. Supporters believe that he is merely doing what any museum director has to do these days to make the institution a financially stable place. For Mr. Loyrette's part, he said he is simply, ''making the museum more modern.'' 
 Regardless of his methods and motives, what does seem clear is that Mr. Loyrette, with major plans for expansion, satellite franchises and new partnerships that would have been unheard of even a decade ago, is overseeing the most drastic rethinking of the Louvre's place and purpose in at least 20 years. (It was 1989 when I. M. Pei finished the then-controversial glass pyramid for the museum's entrance courtyard.) 
 On a private tour given over the summer, Mr. Loyrette, lanky, 57, and spry in a dark suit, seemed unencumbered by the weight of the world's most august and treasured art collection. Instead he seemed preoccupied with the details, spouting facts and figures as he dashed through the seemingly endless halls and galleries. ''If you want to see everything you must walk 14 kilometers,'' he announced -- more than eight miles. Then: ''Forty percent of our visitors are under the age of 26.'' And on a more worrisome note: ''80 percent of the people only want to see the Mona Lisa.'' 
 Much of what he has been trying to do at the museum has been to fuse those numbers so that they are not working at cross purposes: to push the visitors -- especially young ones -- past the Mona Lisa to explore the miles of largely unexplored artworks beyond it. 
 Looking at yet another set of numbers, it is hard to argue with his results. Since he arrived a little over eight years ago, attendance at the museum is up 67 percent, with 8.5 million visitors recorded in 2008 and 10 million expected by 2014. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art has nearly 5 million visitors, and the British Museum 5.9 million.) 
 At the same time he has created an endowment, which right now stands at nearly $175 million, largely to compensate for gradual decrease in contributions from the French government; in 2008 it covered only 47 percent of the museum's $315 million costs, down from 60 percent in 2001. 
 Not that Mr. Loyrette hasn't had some help. His predecessor, Pierre Rosenberg, had started clearing out many of the institution's cobwebs -- introducing corporate financing (a relatively new phenomenon for French museums), hiring a fund-raising staff (also novel) and supervising an ambitious exhibition schedule -- in the years before Mr. Loyrette arrived.
 While there is a long and ingrained history of philanthropy in America, not so in France, where until recently it was assumed that the government was responsible for the country's museums. 
 Mr. Loyrette received some help on this front too. In 2003 a new tax was introduced permitting individuals to deduct 66 percent of the value of any artwork given to cultural institutions and allowing corporations to deduct 60 percent to 90 percent if the work is deemed an historic treasure. The change quickly netted the Louvre 130 Italian Renaissance drawings from the Carrefour retail group -- the value of which, Mr. Loyrette said, exceeded the museum's annual acquisitions budget. More recently the insurance company AXA donated a 17th-century painting by the Le Nain brothers to the museum, and Pierre Berge gave the Louvre a Goya portrait in memory of Yves Saint Laurent, his partner, who died last year.
 Outside of France Mr. Loyrette has embarked on multiple partnerships with the intention of raising both cash and the museum's profile. Some, like next year's planned exhibition devoted to the German sculptor Franz Xaver Messerschmidt at the tiny Neue Galerie in Manhattan, seem relatively benign. Others have many worried that he is diluting the Louvre brand at best and cheapening it at worst. 
 In 2004 he struck a three-year agreement with the High Museum of Art in Atlanta that includes seven temporary exhibitions from the Louvre's collection in exchange for a $6.4 million donation earmarked for the refurbishment of the Louvre's 18th-century French furniture galleries.
 More controversially, he made a deal two years ago with Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates to create the Louvre Abu Dhabi -- a 260,000 square-foot museum designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel and expected to open in 2013 on Saadiyat Island, off the city's coast. In an arrangement that echoes the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation's deal with the city of Bilbao, Spain, Abu Dhabi will pay the Louvre $572.1 million for the use of the Louvre's name and give the French museums another $786.5 million for loans, exhibitions and management advice. 
 Mr. Loyrette said that the funds will enable him to establish the first-ever endowment for a French museum and pay for special projects that the government will not, but critics were not appeased. ''One can only be shocked by the commercial and promotional use of masterpieces of our national heritage,'' wrote a group of leading art historians in the newspaper Le Monde in 2007. Similar outrage has been expressed over a plan to build a satellite branch of the Louvre in Lens, an economically depressed mining town northwest of Paris. His critics say a museum there is unnecessary; there are already two provincial museums nearby, one in Lille, another in Arras, both with art from the Louvre. 
 Mr. Loyrette defends the project. ''For people living in Lens there is nothing to see,'' he said. In addition to rotating exhibitions from the Louvre's collection it will also be a laboratory for contemporary art with galleries big enough to showcase large-scale installations. 
 Others say both praise and criticism of Mr. Loyrette is misplaced, as he is merely carrying out projects initiated by the French government, which has always overseen the running of the museums. Marc Fumaroli, an art historian who is president of the Friends of the Louvre in Paris, pointed out that although Mr. Loyrette is very powerful, he is also ''a functionary of the state.'' 
 ''The deal with Abu Dhabi was conceived by the government,'' Mr. Fumaroli added. ''Lens was too.'' 
 But Mr. Loyrette's biggest challenge might be the Louvre itself. If attendance increases at the rate it has been, in five years 10 million visitors a year will be crowding through an entrance designed for less than half that number. Already there is an exasperating and potentially discouraging crush at the Pei-designed pyramid as visitors vie to get in. Indeed, being told about the line outside the museum was the only thing that made Mr. Loyrette bristle. He said he had asked Mr. Pei's office to reconfigure the interior space to make it more visitor friendly. 
 Another troubling reality is that the vast majority of those millions of people come to see only one -- or three -- pieces of art. ''Everyone wants to see the same three things: the Mona Lisa; the Venus de Milo and the Winged Victory,'' he moaned. 
 To make people more aware of the rest of the Louvre's offerings, he recently released a new audio guide highlighting other works of art. To the same end he is also making sure that contemporary art continues to be subtly installed throughout the museum. His first commission was a painting and two sculptures by the German artist Anselm Kiefer that can be found in a stairwell linking the Egyptian and Mesopotamian antiquities. He recently asked the French artist Francois Morellet to create stained-glass windows for a Second Empire staircase. 
 One of the museum's biggest shortcomings, he realizes, is the lack of American art. ''It's a scandal,'' Mr. Loyrette said. ''We're supposed to be a universal museum, yet we only have three American paintings in our collection. So besides showing Mr. Kosuth and commissioning Mr. Twombly's ceiling, the museum has set up an English language version of its online database, and soon it is expected to announce the expansion of a comprehensive online catalog of works created by American artists in French public collections. 
 But his most noticeable contribution will likely be the $67 million wing to house the Louvre's world-class collection of Islamic art, something no other Louvre director has tried to do, and the most radical architectural addition since Pei's glass pyramid. 
 ''It was not even a department when I arrived,'' said Mr. Loyrette. ''We did not want to make this a separate museum because Islamic art is so artistically and politically important. It's so closely linked with all of Western art.''
 At 8:30 one summer morning, Mr. Loyrette could be found briefing some of the project's backers. In addition to the Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, a grandson of King Abdul Aziz, Saudi Arabia's founder, who has donated $20 million towards its construction (the largest gift ever made by an individual in France.), the French government has pledged $28.5 million, while Total, the oil company, has agreed to put up $4.8 million. The rest is coming from other French companies including Lafarge, the world's largest cement maker. 
 The Italian architect Mario Bellini and the French architect Rudy Ricciotti have designed a translucent undulating roof fashioned from small glass disks, which will sit in the center of the Visconti courtyard, a majestic, neo-Classical space in the middle of the Louvre's south wing.
 Inside, the two-story wing will house a good portion of the Louvre's collection of about 10,000 objects from the Islamic collection, roughly four times its current space, which has only room to show some 1,300 works.
 Mr. Loyrette, a trained art historian, appears as comfortable discussing Anselm Keiffer's paintings as he does the oldest known celestial globe. He decided to join the museum world because he ''didn't want to become a teacher,'' he said.
 Growing up in Paris, he recalls playing in the Tuileries as a child. ''I can't remember a time when I wasn't going to the Louvre,'' he said. His mother, an Egyptologist, worked there; his father is a lawyer. 
 He never forgets that the Louvre was originally a palace before it was transformed into a museum in 1793. And he treats it as if it were his home. ''I spend every Sunday here,'' Mr. Loyrette said. ''I don't have the time during the week.'' Each visit he inspects a different set of galleries, looking at the installations, taking note of things he thinks should be changed, making sure nothing is out of place. 
 ''I figure it takes me a month to get through the whole museum,'' he said and paused before adding, ''Cezanne once said, 'The Louvre is the book in which we learn to read.' It's exactly like that for me too.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Louvre is building a new wing, its most radical addition since I. M. Pei's 1989 glass pyramid, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEE DU LOUVRE/I. M. PEI AND ETIENNE REVAULT) (pg.AR1)
Top, the $67 million wing that will house the Louvre's Islamic art collection. Above left, Henri Loyrette, the museum's director. Above, a model of Jean Nouvel's design for the Louvre Abu Dhabi, and a painting by the German artist Anselm Kiefer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK MESSINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GASTON BERGERET
MUSeE DU LOUVRE/ANGeLE DEQUIER
 MUSEE DU LOUVRE/MARIO BELLINI AND RUDY RICCIOTTI) (pg.AR26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); DANCERS (72%); CHOREOGRAPHY (72%); DANCE (66%); WRITERS (50%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (52%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (78%); HONG KONG (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



281 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: A Bounce? Indeed. A Boom? Not Yet.

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC.

 BODY:
THE sudden rise in home prices suggests that the psychology of the market has shifted substantially. But what should we expect in the months ahead? Not necessarily that we're entering a new housing boom. To a large extent, where we're heading depends on what home buyers are thinking. 
 Some clues are found in the annual home-buyer surveys that Karl Case, the Wellesley economics professor, and I have run for years. For the surveys, we canvas recent home buyers in four cities -- Los Angeles, San Francisco, Milwaukee and Boston; the surveys are now being conducted under the auspices of the Yale School of Management. We have just received the 2009 results, with responses from June and July. 
 This year's survey coincides nicely with the upturn in home prices, the sharpest change in direction we have ever seen. The data show that the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller 10-City Composite Home Price Index for the United States rose 3.6 percent between April and July. While that is not a whopping increase, it followed a decline of 4.8 percent in the previous period, between January and April. 
 The suddenness of this shift surprised me. In my column in June, I wrote that home prices might well continue to decline for years. As of that time, the S.& P./Case-Shiller price index had fallen every month for almost three years. Add to that the prospect of continuing high unemployment and a weak economy for years to come, and the prospects for home prices did not seem rosy.
 But the new data are startling. Since the indexes began in 1987, the closest parallel to such a change came at the conclusion of the last housing bust, at the end of the 1990-91 recession. Home prices rose 2.3 percent from April to July 1991 after having fallen 2.1 percent from January to April that year. By July 1996, five years after that ''turnaround,'' home prices were down 0.6 percent from their July 1991 level, and down 13.8 percent in inflation-adjusted terms.
 Could the more extreme recent shift mean that home prices will just keep rising this time? Here is where our new survey results are helpful. 
 We looked at both the long- and short-term attitudes of home buyers. In our survey, we ask, ''On average over the next 10 years, how much do you expect the value of your property to change each year?'' The average answer among 311 respondents in 2009 was an increase of 11.2 percent. The median response -- with half above, half below -- was 5 percent, also high. That sounds rather like bubble thinking.
 For a home buyer who borrows 90 percent of the money to acquire a house, an appreciation rate of 11.2 percent offers an investment bonanza. By putting a small amount of money down, investors stand to make a large gain if home prices climb. That is the power of leveraging. Recently, however, home buyers have also experienced the unpleasant consequences of leverage when home prices fall. Investing in a home during the wild past few years has been like gambling in a casino: You can leave with riches or empty pockets. 
 In our survey data from one year earlier, when prices were falling at an annual rate of nearly 20 percent, buyers were still expressing long-term optimism. Then, the average answer to the question about expected yearly increases in home values was 9.5 percent a year, with a median of 5 percent -- high figures indeed for that time. The bubble thinking is not new. 
 Those long-term expectations may not have changed much in character, but short-term expectations certainly have. In the survey, we also ask, ''How much of a change do you expect there to be in the value of your home over the next 12 months?'' Here, the average answer for June-July 2009 was a 2.3 percent rise, versus a negative 0.4 percent a year earlier. That was a dramatic change.
 Another survey question is this: ''If you think that present trends will not continue forever, what do you think will stop them?'' Respondents were asked to answer in their own words. In 2008, when the current trend was unambiguously down, people nonetheless made it clear that they thought a housing recovery would come as the recession ended, with a new president after the election, and after home prices have come back down. What has changed in 2009 is that they suddenly see this anticipated scenario as actually playing out. 
 An additional question pertains to short-run considerations of market timing. We have been asking respondents whether they agree with this statement: ''I bought now because I felt that I had to even though I might have done better financially if I had waited.'' During the housing boom in 2004, only 17.9 percent agreed with that statement. That figure doubled, to 36.7 percent, when prices were dropping fast in 2008, and now has come back to 24.8 percent. 
 WHAT should we conclude? Given the abnormality of the economic environment, the sudden turn in the housing market probably reflects a new home-buyer emphasis on market timing. For years, people have been bulls for the long term. The change has been in their short-term thinking. The latest answers suggest that people think the price slide is over, so there is no longer such a good reason to wait to buy. And so they cause an upward blip in prices. 
 At the moment, it appears that the extreme ups and downs of the housing market have turned many Americans into housing speculators. Many people are still playing a leverage game, watching various economic indicators as well as the state of federal bailout programs -- including the $8,000 first-time home-buyer tax credit that is currently scheduled to expire before Dec. 1 -- in an effort to time their home-buying decisions. The sudden turn could signal a new housing boom, but is more likely just a sign of a period of higher short-run price volatility. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



282 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3058 words

HEADLINE: Whispering to Rottweilers, and to C.E.O.'s

BYLINE: By AMY WALLACE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 IT'S a miracle. That's what the humans believe, more often than not, after watching this compact, 40-year-old C.E.O. do his work. He enters a room purposefully, his chest thrust forward and a smile on his face. ''How can I help?'' is his standard introduction, and the way he says it -- calmly, assertively -- indicates that your problems are about to be solved. 
 It's unbelievable. That's what the humans say when they see what Cesar Millan, the ''Dog Whisperer,'' can do. And the dogs? To a pooch, they appear to be thinking: ''Thank God, help has finally arrived.'' To prompt a visit from Mr. Millan, these dogs have exhibited seemingly irrational fears (of motorbikes, toasters, linoleum floors) and strange obsessions (biting rocks, ankles, tractor tires). 
 Their owners, meanwhile, have told poignant, if at times ludicrous, stories. One couple sought out Mr. Millan after their two pit bulls, hell-bent on killing each other, forced them to live apart. Another hadn't slept in the same bed for months because their Yorkies wouldn't allow it. 
 If you have a television, you may know Mr. Millan from ''Dog Whisperer With Cesar Millan,'' whose sixth-season premiere was on Friday on the National Geographic Channel, a cable network piped into about 70 million homes. Nearly 11 million Americans tune in each week. You may have stumbled upon his new glossy magazine, Cesar's Way, or his four books, the latest of which, ''How to Raise the Perfect Dog,'' went on sale last week. His first three books, all New York Times best sellers, have cumulatively sold two million copies in the United States and are available in 14 other countries. 
 Partly because he is based in Los Angeles, the epicenter of the entertainment industry, Mr. Millan has become something of a cultural icon, a Latino man who commands respect wherever he goes. He has helped scores of movie stars and moguls -- among them alpha dogs like Oprah Winfrey, the actor Will Smith, the former Disney chief Michael D. Eisner and the director Ridley Scott -- become pack leaders in the one place they fail to rule: their homes. 
 No wonder Mr. Millan's reputation as a fixer -- he says he rehabilitates dogs, but trains people -- has been immortalized in pop culture. ''What is the 'Dog Whisperer'?'' has been a winning answer on ''Jeopardy.'' An episode of ''South Park'' featured the mom of Eric Cartman, the spoiled, foul-mouthed brat, hiring Mr. Millan to discipline him. A New Yorker article by Malcolm Gladwell quoted scientists and dance experts analyzing how Mr. Millan's bearing instills confidence. The conclusion: his fluid movement communicates authenticity better than words could.
 Not bad for a once-poor native of Culiacan, Mexico, who crossed the border illegally 19 years ago with nothing in his pockets. (He became a United States citizen this year.) When he talks about transformation, in other words, he's living proof that it's possible. 
 With his wife, Ilusion, he runs Cesar Millan Inc., the center of a constellation of businesses that coordinates all things Cesar beyond the show, including speaking engagements; executive leadership seminars; a line of organic dog food, fortified water, shampoos and toys that sells at Petco; and the charitable foundation financed by an undisclosed percentage of the company's revenue. 
 His Web site, cesarmillaninc.com, grosses annual sales in the mid-seven figures, according to a company spokesman, chiefly from DVDs, books and merchandise like the Illusion Collar, designed by his wife to help control challenging dogs. Nearly 400,000 visitors are on the site monthly. Then there's his Dog Psychology Center, a 43-acre mecca he calls a ''Disneyland for dogs.'' Under construction north of here, near where he and his family live, it will be the first of many such centers nationwide, he says. 
 According to MPH Entertainment, the production company that is Mr. Millan's partner in all its many offshoots and co-owns the TV show with the producers who discovered him, he will be a $100 million business in a few years. And he says he's just getting started. 
 ''Anything that is realistic, if I create it in my mind, it can become a reality,'' he says, evoking one of his favorite authors, the self-help superstar Wayne W. Dyer. ''That is the power of intention.'' 
 Like the dogs that he is world-famous for understanding -- and, notably, unlike some of their owners -- Mr. Millan doesn't judge others. Instead, he lives in the now and maintains a sort of uber-balanced mien. For without balance, or what he calls ''our most important tool: calm, assertive energy,'' no one can be a pack leader. And that, more than anything else, is what Cesar Millan dearly wants each of us to be -- for our animals, sure, but also for ourselves and the well-being of the planet. 
 ''World transformation begins with self-transformation,'' he advises. To achieve that, he says, you need a co-pilot: ''My suggestion is you have somebody next to you that is willing at any time to transform the moment. That is called dog.''
 THERE are 65 million dogs in the United States, where pet care is close to a $40 billion industry. By one estimate, dog owners spend an average of $11,000 over each pet's lifetime. And even during a recession, such spending shows no signs of flagging. Simply put, Americans are nuts about their pets. 
 Or maybe we're just nuts. Which is pretty much the underlying message of ''Dog Whisperer.'' 
 Did you see the episode about Genoa, the golden retriever who was afraid of the garage? Mr. Millan quickly sussed out that the woman of the house had strong feelings about the garage, too -- namely, she resented it because her husband spent more time puttering there than he did cuddling with her. Problem solved. 
 How about the one about Li'l Miss Kisses, the Maltese whose owner was obsessed with pink? The woman's apartment, her outfit, everything was pink. Including the dog. Can you blame Kisses for urinating on the floor? Then there's the episode in which Mr. Millan sat down with Kathy Griffin, the comedian, and Pom Pom, her Labrador mix. 
 ''What is she saying to you with her body language?'' Ms. Griffin demanded. Mr. Millan didn't hesitate: ''That you are kind of crazy.'' Ms. Griffin yelled, ''Cut!''
 That Mr. Millan keeps a straight face in these situations says less about his manners and more about where his focus lies: with the hounds. Over the years, he has learned that in a country where pet lovers treat their animals like coddled children (making them unhappy, he believes), he must delve into the human realm to put things right.
 He's the first to say, however, that communicating with humans didn't come naturally. 
 He grew up on a farm in Mexico, where from an early age he was known as El Perrero, or ''the dog man.'' Dogs made sense to him. They telegraphed their anxieties in predictable ways. They loved to be led.
 ''They accept you as who you are -- one leg, two legs, no eyes, no problem,'' he says. ''But they won't be around unstable energy. That's how much integrity they have.'' 
 Not so with humans. ''One of Cesar's favorite sayings,'' says Jim Milio, a partner in MPH, which produces the show out of a mini-mall in Burbank, Calif., ''is that humans are the only animals who will follow unstable pack leaders.'' 
 It would take years before Mr. Millan realized that to achieve his goal of being the world's best dog trainer, he would need to understand not just pets, but also pet owners.
 His wife, Ilusion, a Mexican-American whom he met at an ice rink and married when she was 18 and he was 24, recalls the moment he began to ''get'' his own species. After the birth of their first son (they have two), they'd hit a rough patch and separated. Cesar was too macho and too bossy, she felt, and ignored her feelings. At her insistence, they went to counseling, where the therapist told her to express her needs.
 ''I said: 'You know, Cesar, I really want you to listen. I want you to be there in our household. I want to hear you say that you love me. I don't want to be treated like I'm just a piece of property. I want to be acknowledged,' '' Ilusion says, recalling how her husband looked at the counselor and exclaimed, ''She's just like dogs!'' 
 Ilusion is wry about this ''light-bulb moment,'' which she says initially made her angry. But then she realized that for her husband, all knowledge walks on four legs. His mantra of ''exercise, discipline and affection'' -- the essential trio that he says keeps dogs (and apparently wives and anyone else) happy and healthy -- was born that day. Now, Mr. and Mrs. Millan are a team.
 ''We're what I call Mr. Talent and Mrs. Brains,'' says Ilusion. ''You can't have one without the other.''
 Cesar agrees: ''My wife rehabilitated me.'' 
 BACK in 1991, Mr. Millan's English was poor, which made him reluctant to charge much for his door-to-door training services. ''My goods were good, but my delivery wasn't,'' he says, recalling that his initial rate per session was $10. ''We couldn't even afford Pampers.'' But his reputation was spreading. 
 One of his first clients was Jada Pinkett, then 20 and starring in a television sitcom. As he helped Ms. Pinkett, just 5 feet tall, become pack leader to four huge Rottweilers, they became friends. When Mr. Millan told her he wanted to be on TV, she leveled with him: he wasn't ready. Then, she hired him a tutor in English. He studied for a year.
 For all Mr. Millan learned during that period, the actress says he taught her even more.
 ''When Cesar came into my life, I was a young starlet,'' she says. ''I had all this energy and all this power at my fingertips, but I didn't know necessarily what to do with it.'' She credits him with helping her have good relationships with both canines and humans. (She married Will Smith in 1997.) 
 ''We want to have our own self-fulfillment, and we're not paying attention to what the dog needs,'' says the actress, now Jada Pinkett Smith. ''Then we're throwing the dog into complete imbalance and wondering, What is the problem? That was a crazy discovery: Oh, my goodness, I wonder if I'm doing that in other relationships.'' 
 The Smiths started recommending Mr. Millan to friends. The director Michael Bay needed help controlling his 230-pound mastiff, Mason. Later, he sought out Mr. Millan for help with another mastiff, Bonecrusher (a nod to the Transformers villain of the same name). Bones, as he is called, liked to attack small dogs. Mr. Millan brought a tiny dog to Mr. Bay's house, as well as his sidekick, Daddy, a gentle pit bull that ''Dog Whisperer'' fans will recognize from his frequent appearances on the show. For $60 a day, Mr. Millan and Daddy shaped Bones right up.
 ''It was the oddest experience in the world,'' says Mr. Bay. ''He doesn't say hello. He doesn't say, 'Here, doggie.' He doesn't pet the dog. It's like this animalistic thing between him and the dogs. They immediately respected him.''
 In 2002, after a newspaper article about Mr. Millan drew dozens of producers to his door, he teamed up with two of them, Sheila Emery and Kay Sumner, whom he picked because the dogs in his pack liked them best. That pair teamed with MPH, which had made its name with other successful reality-based cable shows. 
 The National Geographic Channel, which had started in the United States only in 2001, was interested but didn't want to bankroll the entire production. It ordered 26 half-hours with the caveat that MPH provide deficit financing to get the show on the air -- what Mr. Milio said eventually amounted to ''a low seven-figure investment.'' The upside was that MPH and Emery/Sumner retained copyrights to the show. 
 The channel, a joint venture of the National Geographic Society and Fox Cable Networks, controls television distribution in the United States and Canada. MPH and Emery/Sumner control worldwide home video and foreign sales and share that revenue with the channel. Mr. Millan takes a big slice of that same pie.
 ''His profit definition is the same as our profit definition,'' Mr. Milio says. ''We're not doing the studio thing where we're taking off 25 percent overhead and then interest on the money and all that stuff. He's got a really great deal.'' 
 Mr. Millan calls the deal, which he agreed to on instinct, a blessing. ''The goal that God and I have together is the whole world transformed through a dog. God was my lawyer,'' he says. ''And so he's going to bring you great people, and those great people are going to give you your fair share without you asking.''
 Mr. Milio also gives the National Geographic Channel credit for taking the initial plunge. ''TV runs on fear,'' he says. ''No one gets fired for saying no and having it become a hit two years down the road someplace else. They get fired when they say yes and it tanks.''
 The show premiered in 2004, and its audience grew slowly, by word of mouth. That first season, it wasn't in prime time and the channel did little to market it. But Mr. Millan was magnetic. ''I've been in the business 30-some years,'' says Mr. Milio, ''and I've met three people who had that kind of magic. One was Jacques Cousteau. One was Jim Henson. And the third is Cesar.''
 In Season 2, the show expanded to an hour and moved into prime time. That's when things started to take off. 
 NOT everyone agrees with Mr. Millan's methods. ''Positivist'' trainers like Ian Dunbar reject the idea that a submissive dog is a happy dog. Mr. Dunbar advocates treating dogs as companions, not followers. While Mr. Millan uses his hand like a mother dog uses her mouth -- to nudge dogs to behave -- Mr. Dunbar shuns physical corrections and relies instead on treats and rewards.
 To each his own, says Mr. Millan, whose favored ''tsst!'' sound is a correction heard around the world. ''It's just that I think I know something you might not know,'' he says. ''An open-minded human can learn from anybody.''
 Soon, more humans will be able to learn from him. This summer, after a special 100th episode (and a third Emmy nomination for Mr. Millan), the National Geographic Channel struck a deal with Fox to syndicate ''Dog Whisperer'' next fall. That means 50 million or so of the nation's 120 million households that might not know him will get their chance to meet El Perrero. 
 ''Here in America, the dogs take over,'' says Mr. Millan, and he doesn't have to look far for evidence. Ms. Winfrey did an episode of her show with Mr. Millan in which she outed herself for loving her dog Sophie ''like I gave birth myself.'' She called her dogs ''little people with fur,'' until Mr. Millan told her this might be ''good therapy for the mankind, but not for the dog kind.'' 
 Mr. Millan says Mr. Eisner, whose home he visited for a private consultation, told him there was no way his German shepherd would get on a treadmill. ''I said, 'Well, sir, that's your opinion.' In less than three minutes, the dog was on the treadmill,'' he recalls. 
 Mr. Eisner was unavailable to comment, but Mr. Millan said that once the dog was on the treadmill, all the business titan could say was ''amazing.'' Then he just walked away. ''Because you know, he can't be wrong,'' says Mr. Millan.
 On another occasion, Mr. Millan spent eight Sundays in a row eating breakfast with Mr. Scott, the movie director, and his two Jack Russell terriers, Scottie and Matilda. ''When you can actually direct 2,000 people in a movie called 'Gladiator,' that makes you a very powerful man,'' says Mr. Millan. ''But two Jack Russells controlled this man.''
 So how did the Dog Whisperer help? Mr. Millan attributes his success with the terriers to ''patience, and sitting down and enjoying his cigar habit and waiting until he is in a zone,'' he adds of Mr. Scott, who declined to comment. (A representative confirmed Mr. Millan's account but says the director does not smoke cigars.) 
 ''They get into zones, all these powerful people,'' Mr. Millan said. ''And they give you 10 minutes to listen to you.'' Of course, by this point, he was charging handsomely for his time -- $10,000 to $100,000 for a private consultation, which he usually donates to his foundation. 
 ''What I learned about wealthy, wealthy, wealthy people is money talks. So you charge them a lot of money; you speak their language,'' he says. ''I don't mind. I'm very happy with $100,000. Really. They really pay attention.'' 
 ON a recent hot September day, Mr. Millan is standing outside his trailer in a San Fernando Valley suburb. On a break before shooting an episode about Spike, a year-old husky with a penchant for eating pool furniture, Mr. Millan speaks gratefully about the opportunities America has given him, and how he is determined to give back. 
 But when it's suggested that Mr. Millan -- trim in a white T-shirt, black track pants with red racing stripes and a big diamond in his left ear -- now has more money and material things than he could ever have imagined growing up, he calmly, assertively objects.
 ''No, I want a plane,'' he corrects. ''Because people want to meet my 10 dogs, and I don't want to put them in cargo. I just want them to ride comfortably, temperature adjusted, water when they need it. It's not a luxury. It's a necessity, you know, from a dog perspective.''
 Despite his success, he says he never forgets that being a true pack leader means taking care of others, not just yourself. ''Sacrifice is a must in any relationship. Animals are not selfish,'' he says. He and his wife finance numerous efforts to promote animal health. Their Shelter Stars program provides educational materials to people who adopt pets; they also sponsor a spay-and-neuter campaign and have teamed up with Yale to develop ''Mutt-i-grees,'' a curriculum based on Mr. Millan's teachings. The goal is to foster empathy in young children. And, if he has his way, someday every state will have a taxpayer-supported dog rehabilitation center. 
 Mr. Milio recalls how, at the end of the show's first season, he teased Mr. Millan at the wrap party about his growing stardom. ''If you get famous, you can't, you know, ask for a bigger trailer and become this difficult guy and throw stuff,'' Mr. Milio said.
 Mr. Millan nodded, looking, as usual, utterly unworried. ''The dogs won't let me be unstable,'' he replied. ''If I'm unstable, they won't follow me. And then, I'm in big trouble.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cesar Millan, the ''Dog Whisperer,'' built a multimillion-dollar company on his skill with pets and their owners. ''God was my lawyer,'' he says, and his pack chose his producers.(BU1)
Cesar Millan, on location for his show, walks Chase, as Royce Chang, the dog's owner, follows. Mr. Millan says he has to transform people as well as their pets.
 Ilusion and Cesar Millan at their ranch in Santa Clarita, Calif. She helps run the company, and refers to their partnership as ''Mr. Talent and Mrs. Brains.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (87%); BESTSELLERS (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); CELEBRITIES (70%); CABLE TELEVISION (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (65%); TIRES (53%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (57%); WILL SMITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



283 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Lead Judge Denounces State's Glut Of Measures

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
In a rare public rebuke of state government and policies delivered by a sitting judge, the chief justice of the California Supreme Court scathingly criticized the state's reliance on the referendum process, arguing that it has ''rendered our state government dysfunctional.''
 In a speech Saturday before the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in Cambridge, Mass., the chief justice, Ronald M. George, denounced the widespread use of the referendum process to change state laws and constitutions. And he derided California as out of control, with voters deciding on everything from how parts of the state budget are spent to how farm animals are managed. 
 The state is unusual, he said, because it prohibits its Legislature from amending or repealing many types of laws without voter approval, essentially hamstringing that body -- and the executive branch. 
 Justice George's remarks come at a time of severe budget crisis in California stemming from a variety of factors, including mandates from ballot initiatives. Several groups on the left and the right are clamoring for changes to the state's Constitution, including reining in of the direct democracy that has defined much of how the state operates. 
 This week, hundreds of people will convene in Sacramento for a conference on constitutional reform. A spokesman for Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger declined to comment on the justice's speech.
 Justice George said that perhaps the ''most consequential'' impact of the referendum process is that it limits ''how elected officials may raise and spend revenue.'' He added, ''California's lawmakers, and the state itself, have been placed in a fiscal straitjacket by a steep two-thirds-vote requirement -- imposed at the ballot box -- for raising taxes.''
 He added: ''Much of this constitutional and statutory structure has been brought about not by legislative fact-gathering and deliberation, but rather by the approval of voter initiative measures, often funded by special interests. These interests are allowed under the law to pay a bounty to signature-gatherers for each signer. Frequent amendments -- coupled with the implicit threat of more in the future -- have rendered our state government dysfunctional, at least in times of severe economic decline.'' 
 Beyond budget matters, Justice George, a Republican appointed by Gov. Pete Wilson in 1991, was critical of a 2008 voter initiative that ended same-sex marriage in California. In May 2008 the Supreme Court struck down the state's statutes limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples, with an opinion written by Justice George citing a 1948 decision that reversed the state's interracial marriages ban. 
 But in the November elections that year, a ballot measure known as Proposition 8 amended the constitution to override the court. 
 Citing a successful ballot initiative that same Election Day that regulated the confinement of fowl in coops, Justice George said, ''Chickens gained valuable rights in California on the same day that gay men and lesbians lost them.'' 
 He added, ''The court over which I preside frequently is called upon to resolve legal challenges to voter initiatives. Needless to say, we incur the displeasure of the voting public when, in the course of performing our constitutional duties as judges, we are compelled to invalidate such a measure.'' 
 He fell short of being prescriptive, and spoke warily of a constitutional convention. But he said, ''At a minimum, in order to avoid such a loss, Californians may need to consider some fundamental reform of the voter initiative process. Otherwise, I am concerned, we shall continue on a course of dysfunctional state government, characterized by a lack of accountability on the part of our officeholders as well as the voting public.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (92%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BALLOTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MARRIAGE (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); APPROVALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (84%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS & SCIENCES (58%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



284 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: SMALL BANKS FAIL AT GROWING RATE, STRAINING F.D.I.C.

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
A year after Washington rescued the banks considered too big to fail, the ones deemed too small to save are approaching a grim milestone: the 100th bank failure of 2009.
 In what has become a ritual, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has swooped down on a handful of troubled lenders almost every Friday, seizing 98 since January alone and putting their assets into the hands of another bank. 
 While the parade of failures still represents a mere fraction of America's small banks, it underscores a growing divide between them and large institutions like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and U.S. Bancorp, which are slowly growing stronger as the economy improves. 
 Burdened by worsening commercial real estate loans, many small banks' troubles are just beginning. Many analysts say that the now-toxic loans could sink hundreds of small lenders over the next few years and place a significant drag on the economy. 
 Already, the bank failures are placing enormous strain on the F.D.I.C. and its fund, which keeps depositors whole. Flush with more than $50 billion only two years ago, the fund recently fell into the red.
 The prospect of more failures has led the F.D.I.C. to seek new ways to replenish the fund with higher and earlier payments by healthy banks, even after setting aside reserves for future losses. 
 The initial wave of failures has also unsettled some communities, even though most of the troubled institutions have been bought by other banks rather than shuttered. While deposits are safe thanks to federal insurance, the new buyers often do not have the same ties to local businesses as the former owners. 
 In some cases, they tighten lending and make it harder for longtime customers to obtain loans or favorable terms. In other cases, managers of the new bank make other changes, like ending offers for high-interest certificates of deposit and calling in certain lines of credit. In the longer term, some new owners are likely to close branches of the bank they have acquired in order to cut costs. 
 ''In the near term, bank failures can be painful,'' said Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. But a bank that is teetering on collapse is not going to lend, she said, and ''that's not good for the economy.'' 
 Regulators expect closures to ripple through hundreds of small banks over the next couple of years, especially in the Midwest and Southeast, where lenders have been hard hit by the recession.
 These banks loaded their balance sheets with loans to home builders and other property developers to make up for lost business in credit card and mortgage lending that bigger competitors wrested away. They eased their lending standards during the boom years and made big bets on new housing developments, strip malls and office projects. Now, many of those deals are falling apart, and the lenders are scrambling to raise capital to cushion the losses. 
 ''These banks were big enough that they could do loans that were fairly sizable,'' said John R. Chrin, a former investment banker who is now an executive in residence at Lehigh University. ''If they go bad, they are toast.''
 The pace of bank failures is expected to accelerate in the coming months. There were just 25 bank failures in 2008 and just 10 in the five previous years. But in September alone, regulators took over 11 banks in nine states that were saddled with soured commercial real estate loans, from Corus Bank, a $7 billion construction lender based in Chicago that financed projects across the country, to Brickwell Community Bank in Woodbury, Minn., which had just a single branch and $72.6 million in assets.
 Three others were taken over this month, including Warren Bank, a small lender just outside Detroit. Regulators swept into the offices on a recent Friday night after brokering a sale to Huntington Bancshares of Ohio, a regional bank with a big presence in Michigan.
 By Saturday morning, Huntington had taken control of the bank's computer systems, started reassuring depositors and placed vinyl signs with its name outside some of the Warren Bank branches.
 Even though the process went smoothly, customers still found it unnerving.
 ''People expect companies to go out of business, not banks,'' said James R. Fouts, the mayor of Warren, Mich., whose working class city of 140,000 has had a front row seat to the collapses of General Motors and Chrysler. ''That is something that you expect to hear about in the Great Depression, and it further exacerbates the feeling that financially, the country is not yet in stable shape.'' 
 The banking system may also be facing a long recovery. About $870 billion, or roughly half of the industry's $1.8 trillion of commercial real estate loans, now sit on the balance sheets of small and medium-size banks like these, according to an analysis by Foresight Analytics, a research firm. For most of the banks, this represents the biggest and riskiest part of their loan portfolio, since they lack the trading streams and fee businesses of their larger rivals. And as a group, small banks have written off only a tiny percentage of the losses that analysts expect them to incur. 
 In fact, applying only the commercial real estate loss assumptions that federal regulators used during the stress tests for the big banks last spring, Foresight analysts estimated that as many as 581 small banks were at risk of collapse by 2011. 
 By contrast, commercial real estate losses put none of the nation's 19 biggest banks, and only about 5 of the next 100 largest lenders, in jeopardy.
 Even Citigroup, the biggest and most troubled of the banks, has a relatively small portion of its loans tied to commercial real estate and may begin to recover faster than other rivals. 
 Gerard Cassidy, a veteran banking analyst, said the problems call to mind the wave of small bank failures in Texas and New England two decades ago during the savings and loan crisis -- only on a national scale. 
 Back then, regulators closed more than 700 lenders in those regions. Today, Mr. Cassidy projects that as many as 1,000 small banks will close over the next few years and that their losses will be more severe. ''It's a repeat on steroids,'' he said. 
 But Ms. Bair said the savings-and-loan crisis far surpassed the current situation. ''We aren't anywhere close to that today, and based on current projections, I don't think we will get near that pace,'' she said.
 Even if hundreds of banks collapsed, they would not threaten to bring the financial system to its knees.
 Together, the 8,176 smallest banks control just 15 percent of the industry's $13.3 trillion in assets. And thanks to the expansion of the government's deposit insurance program, regulators also appear to have squelched the threat of bank runs that brought down IndyMac Bank and Washington Mutual last year.
 Consumer deposits are now insured up to $250,000 per account, and the F.D.I.C. offers unlimited coverage on noninterest payroll accounts used by businesses. 
 ''We've passed the panic stage,'' said Frederick Cannon, the chief equity analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in New York.
 What is more, community bank supporters say the bulk of their institutions will emerge from the crisis stronger. ''The community banks are picking up market share,'' said Camden R. Fine, the head of the Independent Community Bankers of America.
 ''People are angry with all the shenanigans on Wall Street,'' he said. ''They believe their money stays local when they put it in a community bank, rather than sent off to Never-Never land.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Warren Bank, a small lender located just outside Detroit, was taken over this month by Huntington Bancshares of Ohio.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A4) MAP/CHARTS: Approaching A Grim Milestone: There have been 98 bank failures in 2009, the most in nearly 20 years. Most of the failures were caused by bad construction and land loans, followed by commercial and residential mortgages.(Sources: F.D.I.C.
 Foresight Analytics)(A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (62%); RETAILERS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); U S BANCORP (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); USB (NYSE) (71%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



285 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: A 100 Percent Chance of an Outdoor Wedding

BYLINE: By MARIANNE ROHRLICH

 BODY:
THE best wedding planners cannot control the weather. 
 Though most try to ease the anxiety by planning for the possibility of bad weather, some still wait to test the air at the last minute. 
 Jolie Coursen and Jeff Kass of Denver (featured in Vows, Sept. 27) were married on Sept. 12 in Woody Creek, Colo. A week before the wedding the long-range forecast was great: sunny and dry.
 A few days before the event, Ms. Coursen glanced at her BlackBerry as the couple drove to check on their wedding site, an open field surrounded by mountains. Alarmed at seeing a forecast of soggy days ahead, she and Mr. Kass stopped at the first Target they saw. They scooped up 20 large umbrellas, about $20 each, just in case. 
 The umbrellas came in handy.
 ''We could have used an indoor space nearby for the ceremony,'' she said, ''but I would have been really sad to go inside.'' 
 The guests were well prepared for the intermittent showers.
 Darcy Miller, the editorial director of Martha Stewart Weddings, said that if you plan an outdoor wedding, ''you always have to think it might rain.'' And now that everyone follows the forecast 24/7 on cellphones and computers, it's hard not to worry about the chance of a few sprinkles, if not an unexpected downpour, she said.
 ''And that means not only planning for bad weather but more importantly figuring bad weather into your budget,'' Ms. Miller said. 
 Last weekend, Zoe Langsten and Randolph McKelvey of New York were married in the Conservatory Garden in Central Park. It was autumn in New York and rain was in the forecast. But the mothers of the bride and groom had ordered enough umbrellas to keep everyone dry, Ms. Langsten said. They bought clear umbrellas for the bridal party ($24.95) and large black ones ($17) for the guests (umbrellas.com). A cellist and harpist played before the ceremony under a pop-up dome that kept them cozy and their instruments dry (icanopy.com; starting at $119).
 ''Nobody will deliver a few hundred umbrellas or a tented walkway the morning of an event without advance notice and payment,'' Ms. Miller said, stressing the importance of not waiting until the last minute. ''A tent with sides and flooring may be put on hold at classicpartyrentals.com, and remember to budget that into the expenses.'' (Tents and covered walkways each start at $300.) 
 Besides umbrellas and tents, there are other less expensive items that provide effective and stylish rain protection on a tight budget.
 Laurie Lambrecht, a New York wedding photographer, said she has seen some guests being offered rubber flip-flops to wear, which save their shoes if the ground is wet (from $7.99 at jcrew.com). 
 There are temporary walkways that can be put down on grass or dirt, but these, too, must be ordered and paid for in advance.
 Mr. Boardwalk (misterboardwalk.com), a company that sells modular paths made of wood slats, will take them back if in good condition and will return two-thirds of the purchase price (starting at about $8 a running foot).
 Companies that sell oversize golf umbrellas offer white ones with personalized handles for weddings. Although good to have on hand, the umbrellas are not returnable, so they can be considered a party favor (from $5.95 at golfumbrella.com). 
 Red Chinese wedding umbrellas ($13.50 each at pearlriver.com) add protection from the rain and a dash of color; white oiled-paper parasols are less expensive, and while not durable for the long run, will last through the ceremony and beyond ($5.50 at pearlriver.com).
 Protecting high heels in soft, wet ground is easy with plastic covers, which can also be considered party favors. They are sold in clear or black and are reusable. They may be ordered in large quantities at a bridal discount ($9.95 a pair; a 10 percent to 45 percent discount is available depending on quantity through thesolemates.com). 
 A stash of individually packaged disposable plastic ponchos is easy to keep on hand and economical. They come in clear or colors and at 73 cents each are a good investment for downpours or the stray shower (campingsurvival.com).
 Claudia Hanlim of the Wedding Library, an online resource site and a retailer in New York, advises brides to take an extra pair of shoes in case one pair gets wet, and have a white sheet to stand on to protect the bottom of the gown.
 And Ms. Miller suggested having hair dryers in the bathroom for those who are rained on despite the party planner's preparations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SUNNY OUTLOOK: There are many ways to dodge the drops, including oil-paper parasols and heel protectors, above, or wooden walkways, below. And don't forget umbrellas, which Jolie Coursen and Jeff Cass, right, had handy.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ZACH MAHONE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MR. BOARDWALK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (94%); WEATHER (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (61%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



286 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Colors From a World of Black and White

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
As you'd expect, questions hovered in the art world air last week after the White House released the list of paintings that the Obamas have borrowed from various Washington museums for their presidential home.
 How, people mused, did the choices stack up, coolness-wise? Fair. Jasper Johns and Ed Ruscha have a certain senior chic. Mark Rothko and Richard Diebenkorn are a bit blue-chip bland. Still, if there was nothing rad on the list, at least there was nothing bad.
 Political art? Some would say that all art is political, by design or default, but there was one pretty direct statement about racism in Glenn Ligon's 1992 ''Black Like Me #2.'' The painting consists of a single, reiterated phrase -- ''All traces of the Griffin I had been were wiped from existence'' -- that grows darker with each repetition until it disappears, black against a black ground. It is taken from a book by the white journalist John Howard Griffin, who passed himself off as black to see how living as a black man in America felt. It didn't feel good. It hurt. 
 Why were there so few women? Why no Hispanics or Asian-Americans? And why, a few art-worldlings fretted, did the Obamas stick with the stodgy old medium of painting? Couldn't they have opted for, maybe, a video installation in the Oval Office? Or a Sound Art piece in the Rose Garden? Or a Jeff Koons bunny in the Lincoln Bedroom?
 I had one pressing question. If the offer were made, which artist from the White House list would I choose for my New York City apartment? I knew the answer: Alma W. Thomas.
 Thomas was born in Columbus, Ga., in 1891, and moved to Washington in her teens. Her family settled in a house at 1530 15th St. N.W., and she lived there until her death in 1978. Her parents had relocated for two reasons: racial violence was on the rise in Georgia and Washington had excellent public schools. Thomas got a solid, though segregated, education, and taught art in one of the city's junior high schools for 35 years. 
 Before taking that job, though, she did other things. In 1921, she enrolled in a home economics program at Howard University, with an interest in making theater costumes. One of her instructors suggested she study art instead. She became Howard's first fine art major, with a specialty in painting. 
 The painting continued sporadically during her teaching years. In the 1950s, she took weekend studio classes at American University, working briefly with Jacob Kainen, one of a group of abstract painters -- Gene Davis, Morris Louis, and Kenneth Noland were others -- gaining national attention as the Washington Color School. Thomas, who loved color above all else in art, always felt a kinship with them.
 Only when she retired could she finally start to paint full time. She was 69. She used her kitchen as her studio. For subjects she took the trees outside her windows and floral plantings in local parks. She had once been an academic realist; then a semi-Cubist. Now she was ready for abstraction.
 You can see her making the leap in the earlier of her two paintings on the White House list, ''Watusi (Hard Edge),'' from 1963. It's an out-and-out steal of a Matisse collage. Thomas just shifts the pieces around, cools the colors down, and adds a title that refers to a Chubby Checker song. But through copying Matisse, she began to work out a format she would use again and again.
 This consisted of short, block-like strokes of color lined up, like mosaic tesserae, in columns and bands set against a different color or unpainted ground. The second Thomas painting on the list, ''Sky Light'' (1973), is a classic, if somewhat somber and monotonous, example of the type: a wall -- more like a fabric hanging -- of close-together vertical columns made of linked blue strokes, with a white ground showing through, like light through cracks.
 She kept playing with this model. She intensified the colors; laid light colors over dark. She went through a jazzy rainbow phase. She shaped the blocky strokes into chips, like puzzle pieces or pavement stones. She made the strokes sinuous and calligraphic, so they float and suddenly disperse like leaves in a wind.
 Thomas herself was a popular favorite in her late-blooming career. Howard gave her a retrospective in 1966. In 1972, at 80, she was the first African-America woman to have a solo at the Whitney Museum. Critics raved. There was a second retrospective in 1977, and Jimmy Carter invited her to the White House. People couldn't get enough of her. Why?
 Her art was accessible. Her abstraction was never really abstract: you could always see the nature in it: flowers, wind. Her paintings were modern but part of some older tradition too, as close to quilts as to Matisse. In a racially charged era, her art wasn't political, or at least not overtly so. When asked if she thought of herself as a black artist, she said: ''No, I do not. I'm a painter. I'm an American.''
 Instead of talking anger, she talked color: ''Through color I have sought to concentrate on beauty and happiness, rather than on man's inhumanity to man.'' American museums, under the gun after their neglect of black artists, breathed a sigh of thanks.
 But when Thomas said color what was she really saying? She vividly remembered being barred from museums as a child because of her race. A lifetime later, she acknowledged that things were still hard. ''It will take a long time for us to get equality,'' she said in an interview. ''But what do you expect when whites closed up all the schools and libraries on us for so long? They know that schooling would give us our salvation.''
 In many ways she's an ideal artist, and power of example, for the Obama White House: forward-looking without being radical; post-racial but also race-conscious; in love with new, in touch with old. A genuine rainbow type. She would have enjoyed being in Rothko's company, and she would have understood where Mr. Ligon was coming from.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SECOND ACT: Alma Thomas began painting full time after retiring as a teacher. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEDGER-ENQUIRER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); PAINTING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (74%); ASIAN AMERICANS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); WRITERS (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (66%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (73%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



287 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Boycotts Minus the Pain

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS. 
Anand Giridharadas writes the column ''Currents,'' on ideas, for The International Herald Tribune and nytimes.com.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
-- Craigie on Main here is one of those socially conscious restaurants where the food is as moral as it is tasty. The chicken had roamed freely. The vegetables had sprouted locally. I could only assume that the tuna, before being sashimied, enjoyed a massage and that the fennel had signed consent forms to be crushed into ice cream.
 When the steak arrived, the chef himself appeared to announce that the cow had been well tended. 
 ''You mean, before they killed him?'' I thought to myself.
 It has many names: ''buycotting,'' ethical consumerism, moral economics, latte activism, critical consumption. Whatever you call it, buying is getting ever more political across the affluent world.
 A car is no longer just a car, nor a cup of coffee just a cup of coffee. In the age of hybrids and fair trade, the mall is a forum to express convictions and hopes.
 Today one can buy not just carbon offsets, organic fruit and recycled paper, but also a iPod whose purchase combats mother-to-child H.I.V. transmission in Africa; a sneaker from Timberland made of biodegradable wool and organically tanned leather; ''green weapons'' like reduced-lead bullets from BAE Systems, the British armaments maker; and fair-trade condoms, made with sustainable latex (marketing pitch: ''for guilt-free lovers who want to feel good in every way'').
 On the surface, all seems well. But, as the trend has gathered stream, a debate has begun over the political meaning of buycotting: is consumption an exciting new form of citizenship? Or is it a sign of how corroded citizenship has become that shopping is the closest many of us are willing to come to worrying about labor laws, trade agreements, agriculture policy -- about good old-fashioned politics?
 Political consumption is not new; its history streaks through the civil-rights movement, the campaign against apartheid and other causes. What is new is that boycotting is surrendering to buycotting, the sending of positive, not just negative, signals; and that it is practiced increasingly by mainstream shoppers, not just die-hard activists.
 Political consumption also perhaps supports a new-age behavioral theory: that human beings, long imagined by traditional economists to be rational, utilitarian creatures, in fact have more complex longings, and often are willing to sacrifice economically for an idea or feeling.
 A study published this fall in the Political Science Quarterly found that 62 percent of Americans were willing to pay $5 extra for a $20 sweater produced more ethically, and three-quarters would spend 50 cents a pound more for fair-trade coffee.
 Proponents of buycotting see these premiums as pure political expression: citizens' parting with money to refine the world. Some even argue that cash-voting goes further than ballot-casting: we buy, and thereby incentivize producers, every day; but we vote far less often. 
 ''We are convinced that how people buy can be more effective than how they vote,'' said Francesco Galante, a director of Comitato Addiopizzo, a civic group in Palermo, Sicily, that has taken on the mafia using an analogue of fair-trade labeling. In 2004, some volunteers in Palermo decided to bypass politicians: they approached local businesses, many of which paid the mafia ''pizzo,'' or bribes, and asked them to certify that they paid pizzo no longer; in exchange, the Comitato brought them business from pizzo-averse Sicilians.
 Today 400 businesses and 9,000 customers have joined, even though products from law-abiding companies often cost more.
 But, like all apparently wonderful things, ethical consumption has begun to attract critics.
 One set are free-enterprise champions who argue that politicizing consumption distorts prices and spurs overproduction while imposing arbitrary conditions on producers -- like insisting that developing-world farmers enroll their children in school -- that might sound good to Westerners but ignore complex local realities. 
 Insisting on the noblest production methods conflicts, these critics say, with the very function of markets: to bring the most goods to the most people as cheaply as possible.
 Another group of critics doesn't deny political consumption's power. Rather, they bemoan that citizenship has come to this.
 Citizenship, for them, is about voting, marching, writing -- about being involved. In the modern age, they say, we have begun to turn inward, bowl alone, shirk our public duties. And now comes this cheap (in the moral, if not economic, sense) way to participate just a little, assuage guilt just a little, involve ourselves just a little in AIDS and trade, feel just a little of activism's thrill.
 In an article last year in The Lancet, the British medical journal, the scholars Colleen O'Manique and Ronald Labonte strongly condemned RED, the marketing campaign for iPods and other products whose purchase helps to finance the battle against H.I.V./AIDS in Africa.
 ''Be wary of the 21st century's new noblesse oblige that replaces the efficiency of tax-funded programs and transfers in improving health equity with a consumption-driven 'charitainment' model,'' they wrote.
 Market citizenship, as critics call it, lets the state off easy, they say. Public goods like health systems should be publicly provided, they say. If organic vegetables are better, then we should all eat them, instead of just the elite. And privatizing compassion may tempt the state to neglect problems; then, when a recession slows shopping, AIDS orphans languish waiting for you to buy sunglasses.
 It is worth asking which problems demand politics and which the mall. Child labor in Vietnam and unscrupulous intermediaries in the coffee trade lent themselves to buycotting. What can the market do about Darfur or health care in the United States? 
 The question, at bottom, is this: have we, with our ethical cars and condoms and carrots, found a way to make markets humane? Or have we rather found a way to make politics bearable to us by turning it into shopping?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AT A PREMIUM: Fair-trade coffee in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); ETHICS (89%); BOYCOTTS (88%); GREEN MARKET (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%); TRENDS (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (62%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (54%); CARBON OFFSETS (53%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: BAE SYSTEMS PLC (55%)

TICKER: BA (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



288 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 59 words

 BODY:
A chart with an article on Sept. 13, about whereabouts of Wall Street executives a year after the worst of the financial crisis, referred incorrectly to an activity of Charles O. Prince III, former Citigroup chief executive. Though a golfer, he does not play golf in Palm Beach, Fla., with C. Michael Armstrong, former head of Citigroup's audit committee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (84%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



289 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Dividends Beckoning Cautious Investors

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
WITH money market yields so skimpy as to be nearly invisible, what's a conservative investor who wants some current income to do? There are, of course, certificates of deposit, but they are paying rates in the low single digits and are generally less than fully liquid. Then there is the bond market, but what if you fear that a surge of inflation will shrivel your nest egg even if you buy bonds of top quality? 
 A sensible choice may be mutual funds that buy stocks paying solid dividends. 
 To be sure, the 100 or so equity-income funds were up 16.2 percent, on average, this year through September, according to Lipper, the fund tracker. But that performance lagged behind most other categories as investors grew less fearful of risk. 
 And since May 2008, investors have withdrawn money from the group every month but one (January), according to the Investment Company Institute. 
 Yet this relatively small corner of the market, with less than 5 percent of the fund industry's $5.63 trillion of equity assets, could be offering unexploited opportunity, specialists say. 
 ''The time frames when it seems like it makes a lot of sense are when interest rates are really low,'' suggested Dale K. Hanks, vice president and manager of analytical services at Capital Research in Los Angeles. ''There's not a lot of alternatives out there for income-oriented investors.'' 
 His firm, one of the biggest fund sponsors, has two equity-income entries in its American funds stable: Capital Income Builder, which seeks rising income, and Income Fund of America, which stresses high current income. Each portfolio contains roughly one-third bonds. 
 These days, a substantial dividend from a company is considered to be at least 2.5 percent to 4.25 percent, compared with a little over 2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500. Equity-income funds paid an average dividend of 2.54 percent on Sept. 30, according to Lipper. 
 Companies that pay high dividends tend to be well entrenched, with shares selling at moderate price-to-earnings ratios. Some examples include Caterpillar, Campbell Soup, MeadWestvaco and Heinz. 
 Stephen R. Petersen, portfolio manager of the $20 billion Fidelity Equity Income fund, calls the equity-high income pairing a practical investment in almost any market climate. 
 ''For people who like the combination of capital appreciation -- obviously with volatility but also a relatively good yield vis-a-vis shorter-term investments like money market funds -- it's a very logical and straightforward approach,'' Mr. Petersen said.
 Also enthusiastic is Celia Brugge, proprietor of Dogwood Financial Planning, a fee-only firm in Memphis. For income-seeking clients, she said she tends to look first these days to C.D.'s, then to short-term bond funds. 
 After that, however, she gravitates to a favorite equity-income fund -- the $2.2 billion Vanguard Dividend Growth fund, which has low annual expenses of 0.32 percent. The fund was formerly known as Vanguard Utilities Income. 
 ''I really like dividend growth funds,'' Ms. Brugge said. ''Even the most conservative investors need at least a little bit in stocks.''
 But while the stocks of dividend payers tend to be cushioned when the market tumbles, equity-income funds can still erode your principal. The category lost 6.42 percent, on average, in the 12 months through September.
 ''We experience the ups and downs that most other diversified funds either enjoy or are suffering from, just like anybody else,'' said Mr. Petersen, the Fidelity manager. His Equity Income fund, which was up 19.6 percent in the third quarter, and down 4.2 percent for the last 12 months. 
 You can minimize the risk by examining, for example, how much of a portfolio is committed to financial stocks, which traditionally have been equity-income favorites but which have been clobbered in the industry's downturn. 
 Determining exposure to various subgroups in the category -- banks, insurance companies and diversified financial firms -- can help you decide whether to use the fund to bet that the comeback of this past spring and summer will endure.
 Another group requiring close scrutiny, said Tom Roseen, senior research analyst at Lipper, is consumer discretionary stocks, which include automotive companies and account for about 8.5 percent of the average equity-income portfolio.
 Mr. Petersen, referring generally to the fund group's risk, said, ''Anytime there's an economic downturn, the risk of dividends being cut is there.''
 On the other hand, Mr. Roseen regards as ''ripe for expansion'' the dividends of energy companies -- which are the biggest component of the category's average portfolio, at 12.5 percent -- and those of materials makers and other industrial companies.
 And Mr. Hanks observed that equity-income managers no longer have to avoid the fast-growing technology sector, where paying dividends was once virtually anathema. Microsoft, Intel and others now do so.
 FUND investors also need to keep an eye peeled for a possible or even likely end to the preferred tax treatment applied to dividends since 2003. 
 The tax cuts enacted under President George W. Bush are set to expire next year. And the prospect is that income distributions in 2011 will be taxed at the highest marginal rate, the same as interest from bonds. 
 ''There's a risk that the 15 percent tax rate on dividends -- that favorable tax rate -- will not continue'' much longer, Mr. Petersen said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The construction equipment maker Caterpillar is among companies paying solid dividends.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL COALE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: MEADWESTVACO CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: MWV (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (63%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (63%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (63%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



290 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: 'Crude World'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Michael Hirsh's review of ''Crude World: The Violent Twilight of Oil,'' by Peter Maass (Sept. 27), is outstanding with one exception. Hirsh noted that Maass neglected to identify solutions to the world's overdependence on oil, but he missed an opportunity to briefly identify solutions. 
 He wrote, ''The true wealth of nations is not discovered in the ground, but created by the ingenuity and sweat of citizens.'' Hirsh could easily have added that the true wealth of nations, with major economic multipliers, is created above the ground: agriculture, aquaculture, silviculture (forestry), all the renewable energy technologies (solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydropower and renewable hydrogen), energy efficiency, recycling and reuse, and human creativity.
 These ''new wealth'' industries are proving themselves as renewable energy systems that will power the world into a sustainable future while greatly reducing greenhouse gases.
 BILL HOLMBERG Washington The writer is the chairman of the Biomass Coordinating Council, American Council on Renewable Energy.
 To the Editor:
 Hirsh's review of ''Crude World'' misses the fact that the worldwide oil-seller cartel is currently in the driver's seat. That's why the price of oil is nearly three times what it was in 2002. Gasoline was about $1.35 a gallon then.
 The big key to the cartel was the invasion and occupation of Iraq, a member of OPEC, in 2003. As the occupying power, the American government has forcefully backed OPEC and its allies. No other military or political force had been able to enforce the cartel quotas until the United States government got into the act. Many special interests have made tens of billions of dollars at the expense of the American and world publics.
 A serious discussion of oil's future must address whether we can defang the worldwide oil cartel or whether we will continue to be soaked financially for the foreseeable future.
 CARL OLSON Washington The writer is the chairman of State Department Watch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMASS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); CARTELS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WIND ENERGY (74%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); IRAQ WAR (70%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (69%); AQUACULTURE (55%); GREENHOUSE GASES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



291 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Yes We Can (Pass Climate Change Legislation)

BYLINE: By JOHN KERRY and LINDSEY GRAHAM. 
John Kerry is a Democratic senator from Massachusetts. Lindsey Graham is a Republican senator from South Carolina.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 CONVENTIONAL wisdom suggests that the prospect of Congress passing a comprehensive climate change bill soon is rapidly approaching zero. The divisions in our country on how to deal with climate change are deep. Many Democrats insist on tough new standards for curtailing the carbon emissions that cause global warming. Many Republicans remain concerned about the cost to Americans relative to the environmental benefit and are adamant about breaking our addiction to foreign sources of oil. 
 However, we refuse to accept the argument that the United States cannot lead the world in addressing global climate change. We are also convinced that we have found both a framework for climate legislation to pass Congress and the blueprint for a clean-energy future that will revitalize our economy, protect current jobs and create new ones, safeguard our national security and reduce pollution. 
 Our partnership represents a fresh attempt to find consensus that adheres to our core principles and leads to both a climate change solution and energy independence. It begins now, not months from now -- with a road to 60 votes in the Senate. 
 It's true that we come from different parts of the country and represent different constituencies and that we supported different presidential candidates in 2008. We even have different accents. But we speak with one voice in saying that the best way to make America stronger is to work together to address an urgent crisis facing the world. 
 This process requires honest give-and-take and genuine bipartisanship. In that spirit, we have come together to put forward proposals that address legitimate concerns among Democrats and Republicans and the other constituencies with stakes in this legislation. We're looking for a new beginning, informed by the work of our colleagues and legislation that is already before Congress. 
 First, we agree that climate change is real and threatens our economy and national security. That is why we are advocating aggressive reductions in our emissions of the carbon gases that cause climate change. We will minimize the impact on major emitters through a market-based system that will provide both flexibility and time for big polluters to come into compliance without hindering global competitiveness or driving more jobs overseas.
 Second, while we invest in renewable energy sources like wind and solar, we must also take advantage of nuclear power, our single largest contributor of emissions-free power. Nuclear power needs to be a core component of electricity generation if we are to meet our emission reduction targets. We need to jettison cumbersome regulations that have stalled the construction of nuclear plants in favor of a streamlined permit system that maintains vigorous safeguards while allowing utilities to secure financing for more plants. We must also do more to encourage serious investment in research and development to find solutions to our nuclear waste problem. 
 Third, climate change legislation is an opportunity to get serious about breaking our dependence on foreign oil. For too long, we have ignored potential energy sources off our coasts and underground. Even as we increase renewable electricity generation, we must recognize that for the foreseeable future we will continue to burn fossil fuels. To meet our environmental goals, we must do this as cleanly as possible. The United States should aim to become the Saudi Arabia of clean coal. For this reason, we need to provide new financial incentives for companies that develop carbon capture and sequestration technology. 
 In addition, we are committed to seeking compromise on additional onshore and offshore oil and gas exploration -- work that was started by a bipartisan group in the Senate last Congress. Any exploration must be conducted in an environmentally sensitive manner and protect the rights and interests of our coastal states.
 Fourth, we cannot sacrifice another job to competitors overseas. China and India are among the many countries investing heavily in clean-energy technologies that will produce millions of jobs. There is no reason we should surrender our marketplace to countries that do not accept environmental standards. For this reason, we should consider a border tax on items produced in countries that avoid these standards. This is consistent with our obligations under the World Trade Organization and creates strong incentives for other countries to adopt tough environmental protections. 
 Finally, we will develop a mechanism to protect businesses -- and ultimately consumers -- from increases in energy prices. The central element is the establishment of a floor and a ceiling for the cost of emission allowances. This will also safeguard important industries while they make the investments necessary to join the clean-energy era. We recognize there will be short-term transition costs associated with any climate change legislation, costs that can be eased. But we also believe strongly that the long-term gain will be enormous. 
 Even climate change skeptics should recognize that reducing our dependence on foreign oil and increasing our energy efficiency strengthens our national security. Both of us served in the military. We know that sending nearly $800 million a day to sometimes-hostile oil-producing countries threatens our security. In the same way, many scientists warn that failing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will lead to global instability and poverty that could put our nation at risk.
 Failure to act comes with another cost. If Congress does not pass legislation dealing with climate change, the administration will use the Environmental Protection Agency to impose new regulations. Imposed regulations are likely to be tougher and they certainly will not include the job protections and investment incentives we are proposing. 
 The message to those who have stalled for years is clear: killing a Senate bill is not success; indeed, given the threat of agency regulation, those who have been content to make the legislative process grind to a halt would later come running to Congress in a panic to secure the kinds of incentives and investments we can pass today. Industry needs the certainty that comes with Congressional action.
 We are confident that a legitimate bipartisan effort can put America back in the lead again and can empower our negotiators to sit down at the table in Copenhagen in December and insist that the rest of the world join us in producing a new international agreement on global warming. That way, we will pass on to future generations a strong economy, a clean environment and an energy-independent nation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); SOLAR ENERGY (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (86%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); POWER PLANTS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); NUCLEAR WASTE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



292 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Longevity Tables

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN financial markets began to plummet two years ago, many retirees faced the very real prospect of outliving their money. 
 As a solution, many academic researchers have long advocated ''fixed life annuities'': investment vehicles that pay a set amount each year until the investor -- or, sometimes, a spouse -- dies.
 These annuities are not to be confused with a range of other products with ''annuity'' in their names, including many known loosely as ''variable'' annuities. Most of these other products don't directly address retirees' risk of outliving their money. These vehicles also generally exact higher fees. Only a tiny minority of the products sold as annuities in the United States are of the ''fixed life'' variety, enjoying that academic seal of approval. 
 Imagine a 65-year-old single woman who has just retired with $100,000 in her retirement portfolio. According to actuarial tables from the Social Security Administration, she can be expected to live an additional 20 years. If she wanted to lock in a return for that period by investing her $100,000 in Treasury securities of appropriate maturities, she could spend $578 a month ($6,941 a year) for the next 20 years, according to calculations conducted for Sunday Business by Jeffrey R. Brown, a finance professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 
 The figures are based on prevailing Treasury yields in early October.
 After 20 years, she would have no money left. Yet there is a significant probability that she will live for several additional years. In fact, there is a one-in-three chance that a woman aged 65 today will live until at least 90 -- or five or more years longer than the actuarial average.
 Fixed life annuities address this so-called longevity risk. If this same woman bought a $100,000 fixed life annuity today, she could not only lock in a higher return ($619 a month, or $7,428 a year) but also have it guaranteed until death -- no matter how long she lived, according to calculations by AnnuityShopper.com.
 Buying Treasury securities of the requisite maturities is one of many possible alternatives to a fixed life annuity. But in simulations conducted by Professor Brown, fixed life annuities regularly came out ahead of alternative approaches. (He reported on these simulations in 2007 in a National Bureau of Economic Researchworking paper. )
 To achieve higher payouts than those of a fixed life annuity, an investor could try putting a portion of a retirement portfolio into stocks or other riskier assets, according to James Poterba, an economics professor at M.I.T. and president of the National Bureau of Economic Research. But that riskier portion would also not have the guarantee that fixed life annuities provide. 
 ''Although holding riskier assets may offer higher expected returns, the recent bear market amply illustrates that it also brings the risk of substantial losses and their associated unfortunate consequences,'' he wrote in an e-mail message.
 (Professor Poterba serves on the board of the College Retirement Equities Fund, and Professor Brown on the board of the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, both of which sell annuities, among other financial products.)
 Benefits of fixed life annuities have long been recognized by a consensus of academic researchers. In fact, this is one of those rare cases in which they take a more sympathetic view of an investment product than do most investors. The late Franco Modigliani, the Nobel winner in economics in 1985, even devoted some of his acceptance speech to wondering why annuities weren't more popular.
 Fixed life annuities have adherents outside of academia as well. Harold Evensky, president of Evensky & Katz Wealth Management in Coral Gables, Fla., a fee-only financial planning firm, said, ''There is no other real alternative to dealing with longevity risk.''
 It's important to shop around when considering an annuity, Professor Poterba said, because payout rates can vary widely. Consider the range of rates that companies would currently offer the hypothetical 65-year-old woman with $100,000 to invest. According to AnnuityShopper.com, these vary from $594 to $619 a month -- equivalent to $7,128 to $7,428 a year. Mr. Evensky added that because an investor would depend on an annuity for many years, it is important to buy from highly rated companies and, perhaps, to diversify by buying several smaller annuities from different firms.
 Investors may also find it helpful to consult a retirement planner, because the calculations required to determine whether an annuity payout rate is fair can be quite complex.
 One feature of fixed life annuities may reduce their attractiveness right now: payouts are linked to bond market yields, particularly those on government bonds -- and those yields are now quite low. Low payouts could prove a big disappointment to retirees considering annuities after suffering big losses in the financial downturn. 
 But Professor Brown said investors who were at least several years away from retirement could hedge against low annuity payout rates by gradually increasing the fixed-income allocations in their portfolios as they get closer to retirement. And if interest rates are abnormally low when they're ready to buy an annuity, he points out, the bond portion of their portfolios will be worth correspondingly more -- enabling them to buy a larger annuity.
 This hedge exists only for those who have started, well in advance of retirement, to plan how they will eventually convert at least part of their portfolios into an income stream. As a result, Professor Brown concluded, ''perhaps the best lesson investors can draw from the recent bear market -- both concerning retirement in general and annuities in particular -- is not to wait until it's too late to begin such planning.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ANNUITIES (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); AGING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



293 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Nekesa Moody, Malik Singleton

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
Nekesa Mumbi Moody and Malik Raymond Singleton were married Friday evening at Terrace on the Park in Flushing Meadows, Queens. The Rev. Willis Brown, a Baptist minister, officiated.
 The bride, 38, is the music editor for The Associated Press in Manhattan. She graduated from Barnard. 
 She is a daughter of Fred M. Moody of Albany and the late Mattie Moody. Before retiring, her parents worked in Albany for the State of New York. Her father was a senior corrections counselor; her mother was a budget analyst.
 The bridegroom, 36, manages the Web site www.elmuseo.org, for El Museo del Barrio, a museum in Manhattan. He graduated from Morehouse College and received a master's degree in publishing from Pace University. 
 He is a son of Helen Singleton and Robert Singleton of Inglewood, Calif. The bridegroom's father is a professor of economics at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, and owns a public policy research and consulting firm there. The bridegroom's mother is the policy analyst in her husband's firm.
 The couple met in October 2007 while volunteering as instructors for the New York Association of Black Journalists annual high school workshop. 
 ''I wasn't sure I was even going to volunteer,'' said Ms. Moody, now the workshop's director. ''But something told me to just get up and go that day, and the first day I arrived, I remember one of the first friendly faces I saw was Malik's.''
 The couple went out with other instructors that night to play pool, and ended up parting ways in the early morning, but not before making plans to watch a football game at Mr. Singleton's house the following day. 
 ''I thought he was really nice and cute, and I really liked him, but I didn't want to get my hopes up,'' Ms. Moody said, ''because I didn't know if he would call the next day to invite me over to watch the game.''
 He did.
 ''There was no doubt,'' he said. 
 VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WILLIAMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WRITERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%); CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



294 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Debate Follows Bills to Remove Bans on Clotheslines

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: CANTON, Ohio 

 BODY:
After taking a class that covered global warming last year, Jill Saylor decided to save energy by drying her laundry on a clothesline at her mobile home.
 ''I figured trailer parks were the one place left where hanging your laundry was actually still allowed,'' she said, standing in front of her tidy yellow mobile home on an impeccably manicured lawn.
 But she was wrong. Like the majority of the 60 million people who now live in the country's roughly 300,000 private communities, Ms. Saylor was forbidden to dry her laundry outside because many people viewed it as an eyesore, not unlike storing junk cars in driveways, and a marker of poverty that lowers property values. 
 In the last year, however, state lawmakers in Colorado, Hawaii, Maine and Vermont have overridden these local rules with legislation protecting the right to hang laundry outdoors, citing environmental concerns since clothes dryers use at least 6 percent of all household electricity consumption. 
 Florida and Utah already had such laws, and similar bills are being considered in Maryland, North Carolina, Oregon and Virginia, clothesline advocates say. 
 The new laws have provoked a debate. Proponents argue they should not be prohibited by their neighbors or local community agreements from saving on energy bills or acting in an environmentally minded way. Opponents say the laws lifting bans erode local property rights and undermine the autonomy of private communities.
 ''It's already hard enough to sell a house in this economy,'' said Frank Rathbun, a spokesman for the national Community Associations Institute, an advocacy and education organization in Alexandria, Va., for community associations. ''And when it comes to clotheslines, it should be up to each community association, not state lawmakers, to set rules, much like it is with rules involving parking, architectural guidelines or pets.''
 As much a cultural clash as a political and economic one, the issue is causing tensions as homeowners, landlords and property managers have traded nasty letters and threats of legal action. 
 ''I think sheets dangling in the wind are beautiful if they're helping the environment,'' said Mary Lou Sayer, 88, who was told firmly by fellow residents at her condominium in Concord, N.H., that she could not hang her laundry outdoors after her daughter recently suggested she do so to save energy.
 Richard Jacques, 63, president of the condominium's board, said he moved to the community specifically for its strict regulations. ''Those rules are why when I look out my window I now see birds, trees and flowers, not laundry,'' he said.
 Driven in part by the same nostalgia that has restored the popularity of canning and private vegetable gardens, the right-to-dry movement has spawned an eclectic coalition.
 ''The issue has brought together younger folks who are more pro-environment and very older folks who remember a time before clotheslines became synonymous with being too poor to afford a dryer,'' said a Democratic lawmaker from Virginia, State Senator Linda T. Puller, who introduced a bill last session that would prohibit community associations in the state from restricting the use of ''wind energy drying devices'' -- i.e., clotheslines. 
 At least eight states already limit the ability of homeowners associations to restrict the installation of solar-energy systems, and legal experts are debating whether clotheslines might qualify. 
 ''It seems like such a mundane thing, hanging laundry, and yet it draws in all these questions about individual rights, private property, class, aesthetics, the environment,'' said Steven Lake, a British filmmaker who is releasing a documentary next May called ''Drying for Freedom,'' about the clothesline debate in the United States.
 The film follows the actual case of feuding neighbors in Verona, Miss., where the police say one man shot and killed another last year because he was tired of telling the man to stop hanging his laundry outside. 
 Jeanne Bridgforth, a real estate agent in Richmond, Va., said that while she had no personal opinion on clotheslines, most of her clients were not thrilled with the idea of seeing their neighbors' underwear blowing in the breeze.
 She recalled how she was unable to sell a beautifully restored Victorian home in the Church Hill neighborhood of Richmond because it looked out onto a neighbor's laundry hanging from a second-story back porch. In June, the house went into foreclosure.
 ''Where does it end?'' Ms. Bridgforth said of the legislative push to prevent housing associations from forbidding clotheslines.
 Dwight Merriam, a lawyer from Hartford and an expert in zoning law, dismissed this concern.
 ''This is not some slippery slope toward government micromanaging of private agreements,'' Mr. Merriam said, adding, however, that for these state laws to succeed they need to exempt existing agreements. 
 One of the biggest barriers to change, he said, is that most housing compacts that were written more than 30 or so years ago allow rules to be altered only if 80 percent to 100 percent of the association members attend a meeting and vote, which rarely happens.
 Ms. Saylor, from the mobile home park, said, ''Pressure makes a difference.'' After a petition calling on the owner of the property where she lived to reverse the prohibition against line drying laundry, she said, the owner recently acquiesced. 
 But Alexander Lee, a lawyer in Concord, N.H., who runs a Web site, Project Laundry List to promote hanging clothes to dry, said the actual electricity consumption by dryers was probably three times as much as federal estimates because those estimates did not take into account actual use at laundromats and in multifamily homes. 
 Change promises to be slow, said Mr. Lee, 35. ''There are a lot of kids these days who don't even know what a clothespin is,'' he said. ''They think it's a potato chip clip.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jill Saylor used a petition to get the owner of the property where she lives in Canton, Ohio, to reverse a clothesline ban. ''Pressure makes a difference,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Clotheslines were common 30 years ago, when this woman in New York hung her laundry out. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE DUKES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mary Lou Sayer, who uses her dryer sparingly, hanging wet laundry indoors at her condominium in Concord, N.H. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); TRAILER PARKS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); CONSUMPTION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (92%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



295 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE FOOD ISSUE; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 4941 words

HEADLINE: The Minister of Food

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL. 
Alex Witchel is a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
On his first day in Huntington, W. Va., Jamie Oliver spent the afternoon at Hillbilly Hot Dogs, pitching in to cook its signature 15-pound burger. That's 10 pounds of meat, 5 pounds of custom-made bun, American cheese, tomatoes, onions, pickles, ketchup, mustard and mayo. Then he learned how to perfect the Home Wrecker, the eatery's famous 15-inch, one-pound hot dog (boil first, then grill in butter). For the Home Wrecker Challenge, the dog gets 11 toppings, including chili sauce, jalapenos, liquid nacho cheese and coleslaw. Finish it in 12 minutes or less and you get a T-shirt. 
 So much for local color. Earlier that day, Oliver met with a pediatrician, James Bailes, and a pastor, Steve Willis. Bailes told him about an 8-year-old patient who was 80 pounds overweight and had developed Type 2 diabetes. If the child's diet didn't change, the doctor said, he wouldn't live to see 30. Willis told Oliver that he visits patients in local hospitals several days a week and sees the effects of long-term obesity firsthand. Since he can't write a prescription for their resulting illnesses, he said, all he can do is pray with them. 
 Last year, an Associated Press article designated the Huntington-Ashland metropolitan area as the unhealthiest in America, based on its analysis of data collected in 2006 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Nearly half the adults in these five counties (two in West Virginia, two in Kentucky and one in Ohio) were obese, and the area led the nation in the incidence of heart disease and diabetes. The poverty rate was 19 percent, much higher than the national average. It also had the highest percentage of people 65 and older who had lost their teeth -- nearly 50 percent. 
 All of which makes Huntington the perfect setting for the next Jamie Oliver Challenge. While he understands the allure of Home Wreckers and Big Macs alike, this British celebrity chef has made it his mission in recent years to break people's dependence on fast food, believing that if they can learn to cook just a handful of dishes, they'll get hooked on eating healthfully. The joy of a home-cooked meal, rudimentary as it sounds, has been at the core of his career from the start, and as he has matured, it has turned into a platform. 
 Oliver became famous at 23 for his television series ''The Naked Chef,'' which was broadcast from 1999 to 2001, first in Britain, then here, on the Food Network. The title referred not to his lack of clothing but to his belief in stripping pretense and mystery from the kitchen -- the idea that anyone can cook and everyone should. He was loose and playful, measuring olive oil not in spoonfuls but in ''glugs,'' making a mess and having a ball. In the years since, that laddish charmer has morphed, somewhat unexpectedly, into a crusading community organizer. ''Jamie's School Dinners,'' his award-winning four-part series, exposed the shameful state of school lunches in Britain and made for riveting television -- he and the school cooks working feverishly to prepare dishes like tagine of lamb that the students either refused to try or dumped in the trash after one bite. When he eventually succeeded in getting them to abandon their processed poultry and fries and eat his food, the teachers reported a decrease in manic behavior and an increase in concentration. The school nurses noted a reduction in the number of asthma attacks. Those findings, along with ''Feed Me Better,'' his online campaign and petition drive, were the impetus for the British government to invest more than a billion dollars to overhaul school lunches.
 In addition to TV specials like ''Jamie's Fowl Dinners'' and ''Jamie Saves Our Bacon'' (exposing the state of the British poultry and pork industries, respectively), Oliver got personal with his series ''Jamie's Kitchen,'' based on the Fifteen Foundation, which he created in 2002. Each year it sponsors 15 (give or take a few) young adults from disadvantaged backgrounds, including those with criminal records or a history of drug abuse, and trains them in the restaurant business. To kick-start the program and to finance Fifteen, the upscale London restaurant that would employ them, he put up his own house as collateral -- without telling his wife. In addition to the London flagship, whose customers have included Brad Pitt and Bill Clinton, branches of the restaurant have opened in Cornwall, Amsterdam and Melbourne. So far, the program has graduated 159 students at a cost of $49,500 each. Oliver endowed the foundation with proceeds from his book ''Cook With Jamie,'' and it now operates as an independent entity.
 If he were just a professional do-gooder, Oliver, who is 34, would be a bore. But food has given his life focus and meaning since childhood, and he has honored it ever since. Born and raised in Essex, northeast of London, Oliver, the son of a pub owner, grew up hyperactive and dyslexic. In school, he failed every subject except Art (he got an A) and Geology (a C). By the time he was 6, his tough-love father, Trevor, put him to work in the pub, cleaning up. His father's work ethic was such that on summer vacations he would aim the garden hose through Jamie's bedroom window, soaking his bed to get him out of it, at 6:30 a.m. ''People die in bed,'' he liked to say. 
 It seems to have worked. By the time he was 13, Jamie was turning out between 100 and 120 meals on a Sunday night alongside the pub's chef. In a work-study program, he spent six weeks at a high-end restaurant, starting at the appetizers station. When the head chef quit, he took over. 
 Though his father was proud of him, Oliver says, he is mindful that the pub owner's motto remains ''You can't make a silk purse from a sow's ear.'' Having started out as the ear, Oliver has worked hard to prove his father wrong. Cooking saved his life. He wants it save yours too. ''Being in the kitchen is the most simple part of life,'' he said. ''People talk about it like it was some sort of science experiment.'' 
 In last year's U.K. series, ''Jamie's Ministry of Food,'' Oliver expanded his reach past the school system into people's homes. He chose Rotherham, an industrial town in northern England with a high rate of obesity and related illnesses, where 20 percent of the working-age population was on public assistance. He built a community center where residents could learn to cook inexpensively for their families while instilling the idea that healthful eating is not a luxury. ''They thought that cooking a meal and feeding it to your family was for posh people,'' he said. Some participants in the show had never even had a kitchen table. They ate takeout food on their floors. 
 That project has proved a success and the perfect model for Oliver's mission in Huntington. The community center here will be called Jamie's Kitchen and will teach both adults and children the basic skills for cooking healthful, economical meals at home. Oliver will also work with local schools on eliminating junk food in vending machines and in cafeterias, replacing reheated processed foods with meals cooked from scratch with fresh ingredients. But there is no guarantee of success. In spite of the resources the British government has allocated for school lunches, Oliver admits that only half the schools are functioning properly; the other half are still experiencing difficulty training cafeteria staff and enforcing new guidelines. And follow-up reports show that while students now understand the benefits of eating healthfully, many still opt out of their school-lunch plans, reverting to fast food instead.
 What's really happening is about more than old habits dying hard or the love of frying. The reason the world is still waiting for the Messiah is that most people don't actually want one, no matter how many fresh fruits and vegetables he's carrying. Oliver expects some of the same pushback in Huntington, whether it comes from recalcitrant teenagers, petty bureaucrats or parents who don't like being told they've failed. It remains to be seen whether the contest between being threatened and resentful versus forthright and true can trump the American intoxication with show business: will this much-maligned area let a Member of the British Empire play Pygmalion and win? In this country, ordinary people seem willing to do or say almost anything to be immortalized in the latter-day vaudeville of reality shows. Oliver's goals here, no matter how authentic, can be thwarted if the balance between camera hunger and social reform goes off-kilter. The series, ''Jamie Oliver's Food Revolution,'' is a co-production of his company and Ryan Seacrest Productions. ABC will broadcast it in six parts in early 2010. 
 Like Rotherham's, Huntington's economy was buoyed for years by the coal mines nearby as well as by manufacturing jobs in the chemical industry, glassworks, steel foundries and locomotive-parts plants. In 1950 its population was near 90,000. Manual labor took care of excess calories, if not hardened arteries. When the coal industry was modernized and the changing economy resulted in the loss of manufacturing jobs, the population dropped to less than 50,000; hospitals became one of the city's largest employers. Another is Marshall University, home of the ''Thundering Herd'' football team and the subject of the 2006 film ''We Are Marshall.'' Its students are aficionados of the delicacies at Hillbilly Hot Dogs (a sign out front reads, ''If you hit it on the run, we'll put it on a bun''), and Oliver doesn't blame them. 
 ''That was 15 pounds of madness,'' he said of the trademark burger, jumping into the car outside the restaurant. ''But it tasted good.'' He had been shooting all afternoon and was 90 minutes behind schedule, an occurrence his publicist calls ''Jamie Time.'' He gets so involved in what he's doing that he tends to lose track. He was due downtown in 30 minutes to hold a town-hall meeting to talk about the show. On the way there, he agreed to run through Kroger, a local supermarket, to see what Huntington residents were buying. 
 As we drove there, Oliver talked about his first day in town. He likes to say that the C.D.C. statistics on obesity in the Huntington-Ashland metropolitan area are only a few percentage points higher than the national average. In fact, the C.D.C.'s numbers vary from year to year: obesity rates in the last two years hovered near the national average, 34 percent, but the A.P. report that brought Oliver to West Virginia was based on 2006 figures that put the area's obesity rate at 45 percent. From what I saw in one day, the locals were plenty touchy about their collective waistlines, so Oliver was wise to tread lightly. That is typical of his style. Effortlessly charismatic, he has an easy warmth -- happy to shake hands or pat a back, though he takes the business of listening to people quite seriously. When he finds a kindred spirit, a sharp focus, an open mind, he leaps, immediately connecting. He is genuinely polite, which is in itself so rare that it is genuinely winning. Though he is still hyperactive -- if he's standing he's pacing; if he's sitting, a leg bounces -- his mind seems insatiable. 
 Oliver is at the head of a multinational corporation that has produced 12 television series and assorted specials seen in 130 countries; he has written 10 cookbooks that have been translated into 29 languages and sold almost 24 million copies in 56 countries. In addition to the Fifteen Foundation and restaurants, he has opened six Jamie's Italian restaurants in the U.K. in the past two years, high-volume yet high-quality odes to a cuisine he loves; he sells his own brands of cookware, cutlery, tableware and gift foods; he publishes his own magazine; and he continues in his ninth year as spokesman for Sainsbury's, an upscale supermarket chain in England. Because his company is privately held, it does not release its annual earnings, but he is said to be personally worth at least $65 million. 
 All told, 2,150 people work for his businesses. He keeps every fact and figure in his head -- no reading, no writing, no notes. The format he has worked out for so many of his series -- Jamie identifies a problem, Jamie sets out to fix the problem, Jamie encounters evil forces along the way, Jamie triumphs -- comes naturally to him because that's exactly how he has lived his own life so far.
 Once inside Kroger we started with produce. ''I find it fascinating looking at people's trolleys,'' he said. ''The ones here are twice the size they are at home.'' He picked up a bag of salad greens. ''A lot of these are washed in chlorine, so they lose their nutrition,'' he said, tossing it back. ''It takes no time to get lettuce and spin it about.'' He picked up a bottle of salad dressing. ''Four dollars? You can make your own for less than half that price.'' He looked at its ingredients. ''Water. I've never been taught to put water in any dressing.'' 
 Well, how about those packages of cut-up fresh fruit? He shrugged. ''I don't understand why people can't cut it up themselves. Don't they own knives?'' 
 Two little girls ran past us, playing tag while an older man trailed them, his cart bearing bananas and M&M's. ''Two things happen when shopping with kids,'' Oliver said. ''You either give in and buy everything they want, or if you're a strong parent you make certain choices.''
 We headed toward frozen foods. No one recognized him. Six weeks from now he'd be mobbed doing this. ''Or punched,'' he said. ''I'm a respectful person, and I'm going to try to do things in the nice way. But it's almost as if parents here have stopped saying no. It's as if the kids rule the roost.'' We came upon a table of Krispy Kreme doughnuts. ''They're a treat, there to be loved,'' he said. ''But start having them every day, job done. It's harsh to say, but these parents, when they've been to the doctor and keep feeding their kids inappropriate food, that is child abuse. Same as a cigarette burn or a bruise.''
 Town Hall awaited. Oliver is so practiced at doing these series that he spoke automatically in sound bites, sensing it was the moment to build suspense. ''Ultimately, I'm a foreigner,'' he said. ''I've got no place being here, but I've got all the right reasons.'' He headed for the door. ''I just bloody hope I pull it out of the bag.''
 THE DAY IN Huntington wasn't my first meeting with Oliver. He came to New York in August on business and, in a borrowed apartment arranged by his publisher, cooked us some lunch before we sat down to talk. His new cookbook, ''Jamie's Food Revolution: Rediscover How to Cook Simple, Delicious, Affordable Meals,'' is based on the ''Ministry of Food'' series and will be published by Hyperion on Oct. 13. He prepared a dish from it that he often makes for his daughters Poppy, who is 7, and Daisy, who is 6: Mini Shell Pasta With a Creamy Smoked Bacon and Pea Sauce. 
 A timeout here for self-anointed Health Nazis. Oliver cooks and eats all kinds of meat and feels free to use butter, cream and cheese, in sane amounts. He is not a diet cop; he's about scratch cooking, which to him means avoiding processed and fast food, learning pride of ownership, encouraging sparks of creativity and finding a reason to gather family and friends in one place. If you can make pancakes or an omelet, a pot of chili or spaghetti sauce and know how to perk up some vegetables, you can spend less and eat a more healthful meal that's delicious.
 Oliver's hyperactivity finds its perfect expression when he's cooking. His movements were almost balletic, charged and graceful, even when he stuck his finger straight into the pot of water to feel if it was near boiling. It was. He cut the pancetta with lightning speed. ''I swear I could do that at 10 years old,'' he said. ''Tuck your fingers in, you never get cut.'' 
 He dressed the salad, which he filled with fresh herbs, tossing it with his hands. Then he threw frozen peas into the pan with the pancetta. Two women who work for him moved in and out of the kitchen, talking on cellphones. ''The key to life is to surround yourself with lots of women,'' Oliver said. ''Men would just lie to me. Girls say, 'Give me half an hour and I'll find out.' They're intelligent, more loyal and they make things happen. Everything I do is about team, really. So 90 percent of my team are women.'' The dish was done within minutes. (It was also done within minutes when I made it at home, at a more leisurely pace, the following day.) 
 We sat at the dining-room table. ''The key to life is to know what you're good at and stay away from what you're bad at,'' he said. Well, the pasta was certainly delicious. As for the bad part, we talked about school. He said he recently ran into his ''special needs'' teacher, Mrs. Murphy, and actually blushed as he told me, ''I gave her a big hug and kiss, and she said she was really proud of me.'' Oliver has often recounted the story of being one of five children out of 150 pulled from regular classes each week to learn how to read and write, as the other kids taunted them, singing the phrase ''special needs'' to the tune of ''Let It Be.'' 
 He left school at 16 and graduated from Westminster Catering College. After a brief stint cooking in France, he returned to London to work at Antonio Carluccio's Neal Street Restaurant, where he met his mentor, Gennaro Contaldo, who taught him to make bread and pasta and to love all things Italian. (Contaldo now supervises bread- and pasta-making at the Jamie's Italian restaurants.) Then Oliver moved on to the trendy River Cafe, where a camera crew came to shoot one day and found him to be a natural.
 Since 2000, Oliver has been married to his longtime love, Juliette Norton. A former model, she is known to his viewers and fans as ''the lovely Jools.'' They live in the Primrose Hill section of London and spend weekends at his farm in Essex, near where he grew up. His father's pub, the Cricketers, is still in business. Oliver says: ''I have my two girls waitressing there. Poppy is gentle, sensitive. Daisy is sort of a bit mad, incredibly funny. She eats for England. She's only 6, and she'll eat squid, she'll try anything.''
 Poppy and Daisy have an infant sister, Petal. Really.
 ''That's Jools,'' he said, easily. ''My opinions in the name department don't get much of a look-in. We live very segregated sort of lives, really. Jools isn't into anything workwise that I do. It means that home is home, and when I'm there I don't talk about work. Like a lot of working mums or dads, I see the girls a bit in the morning, and then I really don't see them until the weekend, which is the way it's always been, so I don't feel bad. Mum does a great job of being a mum.'' But Oliver doesn't just come home from work; he comes home from being an international entertainment conglomerate. That seems hard to leave at the door. 
 ''It's the battle of life isn't it, trying to get the right balance,'' he said. ''The problem with me is, no one truly understands how I tick as a person, even my wife.'' That includes his parents, he added. ''When I started the Fifteen Foundation and opened that restaurant, I spent all my savings. It was kind of reckless, and the key people around me, the business accountants and my parents, it took them five years to get it. That's why I try and take them to every graduation to meet the kids. You know my old man's saying was 'You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear,' but I've spent the last eight years disagreeing with that. I like giving people a bit of extra.'' 
 But his father still doesn't understand him? Oliver's leg bounced ferociously. ''He's really proud, but he doesn't know how I manage to multitask. I don't know if it's part of my dyslexia, but I can jump from one place into another, into another. So whether it's the restaurant or the charity or the direct-sales business or the next book -- there's probably 30 things going on now -- I think it scares my dad because he's always been very good at one thing. But he's starting to relax. I think he thinks I'm happy, and ultimately you're only as happy as your most miserable child, aren't you?'' 
 What is his mother, Sally, like? ''She's hilarious. A hundred-miles-an-hour avalanche of energy. She's superbright and fairly encyclopedic about stuff, but at the same time she's a complete liability. She just worries and flusters and runs around the place, saying inappropriate things. She's fairly similar to me, really. But growing up, she was a brilliant mum and a great friend. Dad was strict, hard core, waking me up with the hose.''
 Oliver got his revenge -- or at least tried to. Before he started cooking in the pub, he and his friends set off a stink bomb there during dinner time, sending 30 people out onto the street without paying their bills. ''That was just stupid, really,'' Oliver said, chagrined that I mentioned it and seemingly still ashamed. ''That was an attack on a family business by a moron child.''
 High jinks aside, he said that his parents consistently supported him and his younger sister, Anna-Marie. ''I was brought up in a family where they would wish the best for you,'' he said. ''But doing these projects like 'School Dinners' and 'Ministry of Food,' it amazed me that around so many of these people there was no positivity. With one woman, if she started doing good stuff for herself, people that were her own flesh and blood got jealous. With Fifteen, one of the biggest problems we have is the students' families, the lack of positive role models. That's why I disagree with Dad.'' He spoke proudly of his graduates, mentioning one who works in New York at the renowned gastropub the Spotted Pig and another who is about to become the head chef at Jamie's Italian in Guildford. Five years ago, Oliver said, he was on the South Bank of the Thames in a courtroom getting that young man out of jail. 
 ''Look, I think the brilliant and beautiful thing in life is that anyone can do anything,'' he said. ''When I used to go to special needs, we got laughed at, but we're not supposed to all be academic. What is education? A bunch of stuff that people think we should know. Ultimately if you can put a wall up, if you can paint, if you can work with other people and, most important, if you find out what you are good at, that's the key. Kids can do detailed, technical things, and they can do them well. Have you seen them on skateboards and surfing? It doesn't have to be a BMX, it can be a pot and a pan and a knife, but we wrap them up in cotton wool and treat them like babies and they're not.''
 It certainly didn't hurt him to have started early. ''No,'' he said, ''but it's ironic that the one thing I hated I sort of specialize in now,'' referring to the cookbooks. He added, good-naturedly, ''When I do writing, it's more imagination than sentences as we know it.'' But he is very visual -- remember that A in art -- and he works on every aspect of the books' photography and design. ''Almost 24 million copies, by someone who swore he'd never ever do any revolting reading and writing when he left school,'' Oliver said with smile of pure delight. ''It's funny how things work out.''
 AFTER OUR DASH through Kroger, Oliver arrived at City Hall and disappeared backstage. The auditorium was less than half full, and the front rows were filled with local reporters. Mothers brought young children with an eye toward the camera. One even armed her daughter with an oversize school menu as a visual aid. Another woman seemed to have mistaken scratch cooking for ''American Idol'' -- she raced back and forth, trying to persuade someone, anyone, to ask Oliver to listen to her daughter sing.
 Oliver picked up the mike. ''Hi, guys,'' he began. ''Some say this is the most unhealthy town in America. We're going to spend the next few days getting under the skin of the problem, and we're asking families, individuals, schools and churches to spread the word. Here, the odds are against you, you live an unhealthy life and die young. That's what the report said. So, this is not a sparkly, pretty show. It's about finding local ambassadors for change.''
 He asked people to raise their hands if friends or family were affected by obesity and bad health. Almost every hand went up. Oliver nodded. ''What do you think the problems are?'' Among the answers were: too much processed food in school cafeterias; a need for better prenatal nutrition; a call to stop putting Kool-Aid in toddlers' sippy cups (earlier, Oliver heard about infants' bottles filled with Coca-Cola); suggestions that restaurants offer smaller portions and that children's menus offer alternatives to burgers and fries. 
 Oliver took it in. ''This isn't a freak show here,'' he said. ''You're only a few percent away from the national average. Every child should be taught to cook in school, not just talk about nutrition all day. Good food can be made in 15 minutes. This could be the first generation where the kids teach the parents.'' That earned a round of applause. 
 ''I got a billion dollars out of the British government and put it into the school system,'' he went on. ''But it's still in transition, it's not all glossy yet. When parents get angry anything can happen. So I'll need your help. Hopefully over the next few months, we'll do some really good things together.''
 After he left the lectern, the crew restaged the applause they would use for his entrance. It was thin before, but now it ended with a standing ovation. The townsfolk seemed as quick a study on theatrics as they were on health reform; many angled to be interviewed, to establish themselves as characters. 
 They were actually so intent on chasing the limelight that few seemed to notice an untended table outside the rear of the auditorium. There, in what seemed the ultimate mixed message, was the 15-pound burger Oliver helped make that afternoon. Sitting near a bowl of candy and a half-eaten plate of sandwiches, it filled an enormous platter. It had been cut into pieces, but hardly any had been taken. 
 As Oliver spoke to the camera downstairs and audience members jockeyed for position upstairs, the table stood ignored. Until two little boys stormed it, prompting their mother to pull herself free from the media hubbub. They stopped just short and stared at the bounty before them.
 ''Is it free?'' one son asked. She looked around, nervously. ''Yes,'' she said. He reached past the burger and grabbed a box of Milk Duds. Then she got back in line, to be on TV. 
 Recipe: Good Old Chili Con Carne
 Adapted from ''Jamie's Food Revolution,'' by Jamie Oliver.
 1/4 cup olive oil
 2 medium onions, finely chopped
 2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
 2 medium carrots, finely chopped 
 2 ribs celery, finely chopped
 2 red bell peppers, cored, seeded and roughly chopped
 1 heaping teaspoon chili powder
 1 heaping teaspoon ground cumin
 1 heaping teaspoon ground cinnamon
 Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
 1 15-ounce can garbanzo beans (chickpeas), drained
 1 15-ounce can red kidney beans, drained
 2 14-ounce cans diced tomatoes
 1 pound good-quality ground beef
 1/2 cup (packed) fresh cilantro sprigs
 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar. 
 1. Place a large casserole over medium-high heat, and add 1/4 cup olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the onions, garlic, carrots, celery and red bell peppers. Stir, and add chili powder, cumin, cinnamon and a good pinch of salt and pepper. Stir every 30 seconds for about 7 minutes, until softened and lightly colored. 
 2. Add the garbanzo beans, kidney beans, tomatoes and ground beef, stirring to break up the meat. Fill one of the tomato cans with water and then add the water to the pan. Coarsely chop the cilantro leaves and refrigerate until needed. Finely chop the stems and add to the pan. Add balsamic vinegar and season with salt and pepper to taste. 
 3. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to low. Simmer, partly covered, for about 1 hour, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Transfer to a warmed serving bowl or individual bowls, and garnish with cilantro leaves. If desired, serve with basmati rice, crusty bread, baked potato or couscous, accompanied by yogurt, guacamole and slices of lime.
 Serves 6.
 Recipe: Mini-Shell Pasta With Creamy Smoked Bacon and Peas
 Adapted from ''Jamie's Food Revolution,'' by Jamie Oliver.
 Sea salt
 10 slices smoked bacon or pancetta
 1 pound dried mini-shell or other small pasta
 2 tablespoons olive oil
 1 tablespoon butter
 Freshly ground black pepper
 2 cups frozen peas
 2 tablespoons creme fraiche or heavy cream
 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh mint leaves
 Juice of 1 lemon
 6 ounces finely grated Parmesan cheese.
 1. Bring a large pot of lightly salted to a boil. Meanwhile, cut sliced bacon crosswise into thin slivers, or slice pancetta into julienne. Add pasta to boiling water and cook to taste. 
 2. While pasta is cooking, place a large skillet over medium heat, and add 2 tablespoons olive oil and the butter. Add bacon or pancetta and a sprinkling of pepper, and fry until golden and crisp. Immediately add frozen peas and stir for a minute or two. Add creme fraiche or heavy cream and chopped mint. 
 3. Reserve 1 cup of the pasta cooking water, and drain the pasta. Add pasta to the skillet and stir. Add lemon juice, and adjust salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a simmer, then remove from heat. The mixture should be thick; if desired, a splash of the pasta water may be added to the sauce to thin it slightly. Add Parmesan and stir to mix. If desired, serve with a green salad.
 Serves 4 to 6.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLAF BLECKER) (pg. MM51)
1. Huntington, W. Va., the wide view. 2.4. At Hillbilly Hot Dogs, a 15-pounder, a nice burger to visit, but. . . . 5.6. Family-style dinner out at H.H.D. (pg. MM53)
 1. Oliver, pod-cast, in the cafeteria of Central City Elementary School. 2. Getting the lard out: Oliver on a truck containing the equivalent of a year's worth of fat (5,290 pounds) served by the school's cafeteria.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK PETERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM54) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); OBESITY (88%); DIABETES (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); CHEESE (77%); OILS & FATS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); PEDIATRICS (74%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); POOR POPULATION (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); HEART DISEASE (66%); POVERTY RATES (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



296 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIELD REPORT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 4057 words

HEADLINE: Grain Elevator

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE MUHLKE

 BODY:
There are two make-or-break factors that Jeff Ford can't control as a vendor at the farmers' market in Madison, Wis.: the weather and roller-coaster diet trends. His 12-year-old bakery, Cress Spring, survived Atkins, then experienced a sustained bump when Oprah urged a switch to whole grains. These days, Ford said with a shake of his ponytail, everyone thinks he's allergic to wheat.
 Still, by noon every Saturday, he's sold out of the 400 loaves he loaded into his muddy pickup in rural Blue Mounds. That's because Ford's bread is different. His tangy, crusty loaves, baked in a wood-burning oven built by the legendary mason Alan Scott, are made using obscure organic grains that he sources locally and grinds himself, and leavened using natural fermentation rather than industrial yeast. 
 Ford's customers, some with medically diagnosed wheat allergies, have found that they have no problem digesting Cress Spring's Kamut, spelt and all-rye breads, even the French white loaf, which -- Ford is aware of the paradox -- is one of his best sellers. (He sneaks up to 35 percent whole-wheat and rye flours into it, explaining: ''White bread is just a mystery to me. Everything tastes better with rye.'') Even a Manhattan nutritionist could probably polish off a Cress Spring loaf without bloating.
 According to the baker, Americans' wheat issues start on the farm. ''The varieties of wheat grown in this country for industrial production are down to about five, so it's all monoculture, chemicalized, no nutritional value,'' said Ford, a serene, 43-year-old metalhead turned Deadhead who got his start as an accountant in a worker-owned Madison bakery. ''The breeds are bred to stand up to abuse from the machines. We feed people this stuff that their bodies are not designed or adapted to eat. Of course they're sensitive to it, and it's not good for them and causes problems. And then we apply those standards to this?'' he asked, gesturing to the tubs of dough around him, slowly rising to the beats of Black Star.
 Cress Spring's natural fermentation method is part of what makes its 13 bread varieties easier to eat. Instead of using instant yeast, which basically produces gas to rapidly inflate the dough without imparting flavor, Ford cultivates his own. Using precise measurements calculated on a spreadsheet (once a math geek . . .), he buries a ball of flour and water in a bag of flour for four or five days to create the foundation of his sourdough starters, which are then fed more flour and water days before they are formed into dough in a tall old mixer that has a picture of Bob Dylan taped to it. ''It's called sourdough because you build up high acidity, and the yeasts have developed the ability to tolerate them,'' Ford explained. 
 While yeasted breads can go from mixer to oven in a few hours, Ford's orchestrated slow-rise method requires almost 24. The process changes the nature of the grain, breaking down its natural defenses and thereby making its nutrients more accessible to the body. (''Grains don't want to be eaten,'' he pointed out with a wry laugh. ''They want to grow.'') It also changes the flavor of the bread, imparting a sweet sourness and complexity. Since the only ingredients are grains, water and Celtic salt, the loaves have more longevity, too: Ford sliced me a piece of week-old Swiss rye that was still moist. Toasted for a few seconds at the lip of the 600-degree oven, it made an ideal accompaniment to a dinner of hearth-seared buffalo hanger steak.
 The grains are an important part of Ford's craft, as well as of his Wendell Berry-fed philosophy. He buys his rye, spelt and soft wheat as locally as possible -- a nearby farmer used to sell him rye harvested by oxen -- and gets his hard wheat from Minnesota and his Kamut from North Dakota or Montana. He grinds them on mixing day to maximize their nutrition.
 His longstanding dedication to local grains (he briefly tried growing his own wheat) and same-day milling was ahead of the recent renaissance of bakers who are fulfilling the snowballing desire for local foods in a harder-to-fill part of the table: the breadbasket. In Skowhegan, Me., for example, organizers of the Kneading Conference for wood-fired-oven baking and local grain cultivation are transforming an 1860s jailhouse into a grist mill and bakery, where they will grind Maine wheat for their loaves. 
 Ford said that he was hoping to get through our interview without using the word ''sustainable.'' But, he said with a sigh, ''here we are.'' When he built the bakery on communal farmland, literally constructing his house around the massive oven, it was with the idea of creating a business that could withstand environmental and economic collapses. Alan Scott came to help build Ford's 4-by-6-foot hearth as part of a paying community workshop. (In the baking world, having Scott, who died in January, build your oven is like having Steve Jobs set up your laptop. Ford's baking partner, a 29-year-old woman who goes by the name of Biggie Lemke, dropped her Manhattan cooking career to apprentice at Cress Spring when Scott told her about the oven he had built in Wisconsin.) Ford chops his own wood and gets scraps from a Madison mill, buys all the ingredients for his pastries and granola from his neighbors and fellow market vendors and, if need be, he can try growing his own wheat again. 
 Over the years, he has shrunk his business to a more comfortable scale, virtually ending wholesale in favor of a manageable, and profitable, home-delivery service. (He limits the route so as not to cut into his Friday-night basketball game.) Come Saturday, ''People hand me money all day and tell me they love what we do,'' he said, tucking a shaped ball of dough into a linen-lined basket. ''At that point it's not work; it's my social life.''
 Ford's locavoraciousness has resulted in a rich community and satisfying, dare he say sustainable, life. Any visiting urban food snob who sees the sunflower seeds on the Sunny Spelt loaf and skips the Cress Spring booth, not understanding that hippies are an integral gourmet subset, will miss out on bread with a coppery-gold crust, slightly burned edges and a vibrant crumb that would impress any baker at Poilane in Paris, Balthazar in Manhattan or Acme Bread Company in Berkeley. The fact that it is suddenly desirable because it is whole-grain, organic, locally sourced and tolerated by the wheat-sensitive is something Ford could never have envisioned. Perhaps because it has been his vision all along. 
 Recipe: Pane Integrale (Whole-Wheat Bread)
 Adapted from ''My Bread,'' by Jim Lahey.
 2 1/4 cups (300 grams) bread flour
 3/4 cup (100 grams) wheat flour
 1 1/2teaspoons (8 grams) table salt
 1/2teaspoon (2 grams) instant or dry active yeast
 1 1/4cups (300 grams) cool water (55 to 65 degrees)
 Wheat bran, cornmeal or flour, for dusting.
 1. In a medium bowl, stir together the flours, salt and yeast. Add the water, and using a wooden spoon or your hands, mix until you have a wet, sticky dough, about 30 seconds. Cover the bowl with a towel or plastic wrap and let sit at room temperature until the surface is dotted with bubbles and the dough is more than doubled in size, 12 to 18 hours.
 2. When the first rise is complete, generously dust a work surface with flour. Use a bowl scraper or rubber spatula to gently scrape the dough out of the bowl in one piece. Using lightly floured hands or a bowl scraper or spatula, lift the edges of the dough in toward the center. Nudge and tuck in the edges of the dough to make it round.
 3. Place a cotton or linen tea towel on your work surface and very generously sprinkle it with wheat bran, cornmeal or flour, using at least cup. Gently place the dough on the towel, seam-side down. If the dough is tacky, dust the top lightly with wheat bran, cornmeal or flour. Fold the ends of the tea towel loosely over the dough to cover and place it in a warm, draft-free spot to rise for 1 to 2 hours. The dough is ready when it is almost doubled. If you gently poke it with your finger, it should hold the impression. If it springs back, let it rise for another 15 minutes.
 4. Thirty minutes before the end of the second rise, preheat the oven to 475 degrees, with a rack positioned in the lower third, and place a covered 41/2-to-51/2-quart heavy pot in the center of the rack. If using a lid with a plastic handle, be sure that it can tolerate high temperatures. You might have to unscrew it and plug the hole with aluminum foil.
 5. Using thick potholders, carefully remove the preheated pot from the oven and uncover it. Unfold the tea towel and quickly but gently invert the dough into the pot, seam-side up. (Use caution: the pot will be very hot.) Cover the pot and bake for 30 minutes.
 6. Remove the lid and continue baking until the bread is a deep chestnut color but not burned, 15 to 30 minutes more. Use a heatproof spatula or potholders to carefully lift the bread out of the pot and place on a rack to cool thoroughly.
 Makes one 10-inch-round loaf. 
 Recipe: Pain au Levain
 Adapted from ''Peter Reinhart's Artisan Breads Every Day.''
 For the sourdough starter:
 1/3 cup (2.5 ounces) mother starter (recipe here), cold or at room temperature
 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (5 ounces) unbleached bread flour
 2/3 cup (3 ounces) whole-wheat flour
 2/3 cup (5.35 ounces) water, at room temperature
 For the dough:
 All of the sourdough starter (16 ounces)
 1 cup plus 6 tablespoons (11 ounces) lukewarm water (about 95 degrees)
 2 1/4 teaspoons (7 grams) instant yeast (optional)
 3 1/2 cups (16 ounces) unbleached bread flour
 2 3/8 teaspoons (17 grams) salt, or 3 1/2 teaspoons coarse kosher salt.
 1. Make the sourdough starter. Combine all of the ingredients in a mixing bowl. If using a mixer, mix on the lowest speed using the paddle attachment for 1 minute, then increase to medium speed for about 30 seconds. If mixing by hand, use a large spoon and stir for about 2 minutes, until well blended. The starter should feel dough-like and tacky or slightly sticky; if not, stir in additional flour (if too sticky) or water (if dry) as needed.
 2. Transfer the starter to a lightly floured work surface and knead for about 30 seconds. Place it in a clean, lightly oiled bowl, cover the bowl loosely, and leave at room temperature for 6 to 8 hours, until the starter increases to about 1 1/2 times its original size. If you plan to use the starter the same day, allow 1 more hour of fermentation so that it nearly doubles in size. Otherwise, put the starter in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
 3. Make the dough: cut the starter into 10 to 12 pieces and put them in a mixing bowl. Pour in the water, then add the yeast (if using) and mix with the paddle attachment on the lowest speed or by hand with a large spoon for about 1 minute to soften the starter. Add the flour and salt.
 4. Switch to the dough hook and mix on the lowest speed, or continue mixing by hand, for 3 minutes, to form a coarse ball of dough that's very tacky and slightly warm. Let the dough rest for 5 minutes. Resume mixing on medium-low speed for 3 minutes more or knead by hand for 3 minutes, adding more flour or water as needed to make a soft, supple and tacky by not sticky ball of dough.
 5. Knead the dough by hand for a few seconds, then form it into a ball. Let the dough sit uncovered for 10 minutes, then do a stretch and fold, either on the work surface or in the bowl. To do this, reach under the front end of the dough, stretching it toward you, then fold it back onto the top of the dough. Do this from the back end and then from each side, then flip the dough over and tuck it into a ball. Cover the dough and let it rest for 10 minutes. Repeat this entire process two more times, completing all repetitions within 30 minutes. Immediately form the dough into a ball, place it in a clean, lightly oiled bowl large enough to contain the dough when it doubles in size, and cover the bowl tightly.
 6. If using instant yeast, refrigerate the dough immediately. If not using the yeast, let the dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours before refrigerating; it won't rise very much, but it should show signs of growth and continue to rise in the refrigerator. With or without the instant yeast, both will be ready to use the next day and for up to 4 days. (If you plan to bake the dough in batches over different days, you can portion the dough and place it into two or more oiled bowls at this stage.)
 7. To bake the no-yeast version, remove the dough from the refrigerator about 4 hours before you plan to bake it; after 2 hours, shape it, then let it proof (i.e., rest covered with a cotton or linen dishtowel) for 2 hours before baking. For the yeast version, remove the dough from the refrigerator 2 hours prior to baking and shape it right away. Remove only the portion you wish to bake: 19 ounces for a 1-pound loaf; 28 ounces for a 1 1/2-pound loaf, and so on. You can also bake the entire amount of dough as a large, 3-pound miche (round country loaf) or as a large torpedo loaf. Gently transfer it from the bowl to a lightly floured work surface, being careful to degas it as little as possible. The shaped dough won't increase in size very much, but it will begin to swell and grow. If it grows to 1 1/2 times its original size in less than 2 hours, move on to scoring and baking it.
 8. If using a baking stone, about 45 minutes before baking, preheat the oven to 500 degrees. Otherwise, set the oven to 500 degrees about 20 minutes before baking and preheat a baking sheet covered with parchment paper. Place a small sheet pan or lasagna pan under the stone or oven rack to act as a steam pan.
 9. Just before baking, score the dough by using a blade or sharp knife to cut 1/2-inch deep lines into it. (A pound sign or cross are two suggested scoring patterns.) Transfer the dough to either the warmed baking sheet or stone. Pour 1 cup of hot water into the steam pan (a watering can or tall plastic pitcher is best for this), then lower the oven temperature to 450 degrees or to 425 if baking a large miche. (Note: If your oven has a glass window, cover it with a towel when adding the water to prevent cracking, then remove after a few minutes.)
 10. Bake for 12 minutes, then rotate the pan and continue baking for 15 to 25 minutes, or longer, depending on the size of the loaf; a large miche could take up to 75 minutes to bake. When fully baked, the crust should have a rich, caramelized color; the loaf should sound hollow when thumped on the bottom; and the internal temperature should be about 200 degrees in the center. Cool on a wire rack for at least 1 hour before slicing or serving. 
 Recipe: Mother Starter for Bread Dough
 Adapted from ''Peter Reinhart's Artisan Breads Every Day.''
 Begin by making a seed culture.
 Seed Culture, Phase 1
 3 1/2 tablespoons (1 ounce) whole-wheat flour, whole rye flour or unbleached bread flour
 1/4 cup (2 ounces) unsweetened pineapple juice, filtered water or spring water.
 In a small non-reactive bowl or a 2-cup glass measuring cup, stir the flour and juice with a spoon or whisk to make a paste or sponge with the consistency of thin pancake batter. Make sure all of the flour is hydrated. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and leave at room temperature for 48 hours. Two to three times each day, stir the seed culture for about 10 seconds with a wet spoon or whisk to aerate it. There will be few or no bubbles (indicating fermentation activity) during the first 24 hours, but bubbles may begin to appear within 48 hours.
 Seed Culture, Phase 2
 3 1/2 tablespoons (1 ounce) whole-wheat flour, whole rye flour or unbleached bread flour
 2 tablespoons (1 ounce) unsweetened pineapple juice, filtered water or spring water
 All of the Phase 1 seed culture (3 ounces).
 Add the new ingredients to the Phase 1 seed culture and stir with a spoon or whisk to distribute and fully hydrate the new flour. (The liquid can be cold or at room temperature; it doesn't matter.) Again, cover with plastic wrap and leave at room temperature for 24 to 48 hours, stirring with a wet spoon or whisk to aerate two or three times each day. There should be signs of fermentation (bubbling and growth) during this period. When the culture becomes very bubbly or foamy, continue to Phase 3. This phase could take anywhere from 1 to 4 days. As long as you aerate the seed culture regularly, it will not spoil or develop mold.
 Seed Culture, Phase 3
 7 tablespoons (2 ounces) whole-wheat flour, whole rye flour or unbleached bread flour
 2 tablespoons (1 ounce) filtered or spring water
 All of the Phase 2 seed culture (5 ounces).
 Add the new ingredients to the now-bubbling Phase 2 seed culture and stir with a spoon or whisk as before, or knead by hand. (The seed culture will be thicker because the ratio of liquid to flour has decreased with each addition.) Place it in a larger bowl or measuring cup, cover with plastic wrap, and leave at room temperature for 24 to 48 hours, aerating with a wet spoon or whisk (or knead with wet hands) at least twice a day. Within 48 hours the culture should be very bubbly and expanded. If not, wait another day or two, continuing to aerate at least twice a day, until it becomes active and doubles in size. (If the seed culture was active and bubbly prior to entering this phase, it could become active and bubbly in this stage in less than 24 hours. If so, proceed to the next phase as soon as that happens.)
 Seed culture, Phase 4
 10 1/2 tablespoons (3 ounces) whole-wheat flour, whole rye flour or unbleached bread flour
 2 tablespoons (1 ounce) filtered or spring water
 1/2 cup (4 ounces) Phase 3 seed culture.
 Measure out 1/2 cup (4 ounces) of the Phase 3 culture and discard or give away the remainder (or save it for a second starter or as a backup). Add the new ingredients to the 1/2 cup Phase 3 culture and mix to form a soft dough. Again, cover with plastic and leave at room temperature until the culture becomes active. It should swell and double in size. It can take anywhere from 4 to 24 hours for the Phase 4 culture to become fully active. If there is still little sign of fermentation after 24 hours, leave it at room temperature until it becomes very active, continuing to aerate the culture at least twice daily. The seed culture should register between 3.5 and 4.0 if tested with pH paper. (Wipe a small dab on the paper and match the color against the guide.) When the culture has grown and smells acidic (somewhat like apple cider vinegar) or has a pH of 4.0 or lower, you can either proceed to the next stage or place the seed culture in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
 Mother Starter
 2 3/4 cups (12 ounces) whole-wheat flour, whole rye flour or unbleached bread flour
 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (9 ounces) filtered or spring water (or 8 ounces if using white flour)
 3/4 cup (4 ounces) Phase 4 seed culture (approximately half).
 1. Combine all of the ingredients in the bowl of an electric mixer with the paddle attachment and mix on slow speed for 1 minute. Or, combine all of the ingredients in a bowl and use a large spoon or your hands to mix until the ingredients form a rough, slightly sticky ball. Transfer the starter to a lightly floured work surface and knead for 2 minutes, until the starter is fairly smooth and all of the ingredients are evenly distributed.
 2. Place the mother starter in a clean, lightly oiled non-reactive bowl, crock or plastic container large enough to contain the starter after it doubles in size. Cover loosely with plastic wrap or a lid (don't tighten the lid, as the carbon dioxide gas will need to escape). Leave the starter out at room temperature for 4 to 8 hours (or longer if needed), until it doubles in size; the timing will depend on the ambient temperature and the potency of your seed culture. Once it has doubled, the starter should register 4.0 or less if testing with pH paper and have a pleasant acidic aroma.
 3. When the starter is fermented, degas it by kneading it for a few seconds, then form it back into a ball, cover tightly and refrigerate. After a few hours in the refrigerator, vent any carbon dioxide buildup by briefly opening the lid or plastic wrap. The mother starter is now ready to use and will be good for up to 5 days. To use it after 5 days, you must refresh all or part of the mother starter.
 Refreshing the Mother Starter
 When the starter gets low, you must rebuild it by using 4 ounces of the old starter in place of the Phase 4 seed culture and repeating the instructions above for the Mother Starter. You can even start with as little as 1 ounce of the mother starter and rebuild it in increments over a number of feedings, using the same ratios as for a 4-ounce batch. You can use 1 ounce of mother starter and add 3 ounces of flour and 2 to 2.25 ounce of water. 
 Recipe: Raisin Rye Bread
 Adapted from Jeff Ford of Cress Spring Bakery.
 For the soaker:
 Zest and juice of 1 orange
 1 3/4 cups raisins
 2 teaspoons fennel seed
 For the bread:
 8 ounces ripe mother starter (recipe above)
 3 1/2 cups warm water (95 degrees)
 All of the soaker (recipe above)
 1 3/4 pounds (28 ounces, about 5 cups) whole-wheat bread flour
 8 ounces (about 2 cups) whole rye flour
 1 tablespoon plus 2 1/4 teaspoons unrefined sea salt.
 1. Several hours or the day before baking the bread, prepare the soaker and dough. For the soaker, combine the orange zest and juice, raisins, fennel seeds and 1/4 cup of water in a bowl. Cover and let sit for at least 1 hour before making the dough.
 2. To mix the dough by hand, break up the starter in the warm water, then stir in the raisin soaker. (For a moister loaf, you can add 1/2 to 3/4 cup more water, but note that this makes for an incredibly sticky dough, best handled by those using a mixer or who are used to working with dough.) Add the flours and mix just until all the flour has been incorporated. Let the dough rest for 20 minutes, then, on a lightly floured surface, knead in the salt for 2 minutes. Let rest again for 10 minutes, then knead for 2 minutes more. This process may be repeated several times. Longer mixing will give a more uniform crumb structure; less mixing a more irregular crumb with larger holes. The dough will be sticky and rough at this point, but will smooth out as it rests. If the dough is too wet, use a dough scraper to help knead it, or simply knead it in the bowl. (If using a mixer, the dough may be mixed on low speed and allowed to rest for the same amount of time as above until it can be stretched out into a fine sheet.) After kneading, let the dough rest at room temperature for approximately 3 hours.
 3. Give the dough a quick fold, cover and place in a refrigerator or cool pantry for several hours, or overnight.
 4. The next day, set the dough out at room temperature, give it another fold, and allow it to warm up for about 2 hours. This schedule may be adjusted to meet your needs. A long, cool fermentation will lead to more complex flavors, moister bread and longer shelf life, but the dough may be simply left out at room temperature for 4 to 5 hours and then shaped. Divide dough into 3 equal pieces, and shape into rounds or batards. Place in baskets or pans and let rise at room temperature for 1 to 2 hours.
 5. If using a baking stone, about 45 minute before baking, preheat the oven to 500 degrees. Otherwise, set the oven to 500 degrees about 20 minutes before baking and preheat a baking sheet covered with parchment paper. Place a small sheet pan or lasagna pan under the stone or oven rack to act as a steam pan. Spraying water into the oven for steam is not recommended, as it can cause exposed light bulbs to explode.
 6. Just before baking, score the dough by using a blade or sharp knife to cut 1/2-inch deep lines into it. (A pound sign or cross are two suggested scoring patterns.) Transfer the dough to either the warmed baking sheet or stone in the oven. Pour 1 cup of hot water intothe steam pan. Bake for 10 minutes, opening the door briefly to release steam. Rotate the bread and continue baking for 15 to 20 minutes, or longer, depending on the size of the loaf. When fully baked, the loaf should sound hollow when thumped on the bottom, and the exposed raisins will begin to caramelize. Cool on a wire rack for at least 1 hour before slicing or serving. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Slow Rise: Jeff Ford of Cress Spring Bakery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LA SPINA)(pg. MM30)
 (pg. MM32)(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: JILL SANTOPIETRO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (89%); BAKERIES (89%); NUTRITION (77%); BAKED GOODS (77%); FOOD ALLERGIES (77%); ALLERGIES (76%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (72%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



297 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: Anybody Here From Astoria?

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

 BODY:
ON Monday, John Garrett loaded a rental truck with his possessions in Indianapolis and started driving. Far away in Astoria, Queens, a $450-a-month bedroom, the tiniest in a dark second-floor apartment, awaited. 
 That the room, featuring a view of power lines, had been dubbed ''the P.O.W. room'' by others who had lived in it was not fazing Mr. Garrett, 33. For him it represented a foothold from which he could battle to make it big in the New York comedy scene.
 A former accountant, he had been performing in the Midwest, booking corporate gigs with his no-profanity act. Standing in his new room on Tuesday, not two hours after moving in, he said, ''It's time to do bigger projects, do bigger things, time to be discovered, seen, whatever.'' 
 A stick of deodorant stood on his otherwise empty bookshelf, and his girlfriend from back home, Jenni Maple, sat with her laptop on his sheetless mattress, which touched the room's walls on either end. 
 Mr. Garrett had found the room because he knew Keith Alberstadt, an Astoria resident and comedian who writes for Jimmy Fallon. The two had met at the Funny Bone club in South Bend, Ind. Mr. Alberstadt, in turn, knew Dan Allen, a comedian who is known for knowing everyone in New York's comedy world. In Astoria, Mr. Allen is the self-appointed commissioner of a basketball league that counts about 50 comedians as members. He hooked Mr. Garrett up with the room.
 ''Whenever a new kid comes in, we definitely give him a place to stay,'' said Mr. Allen, 36. ''We look around, start e-mailing, start calling. We make sure it's an easy entry into New York City.''
 An unlikely ecosystem has developed in the northwest corner of Queens. Just as there are some creatures that flourish at certain warm depths of a coral reef but not a foot deeper where the water is colder, a thriving hive of comedians has affixed itself to Astoria, perfectly suited to the particular microclimate there.
 Thanks to cheap rents that allow time for writing, ample parking that makes road trips to out-of-town clubs easy and a myriad of other comedian-lifestyle perks, it has become more than likely that if you meet a comedian outside a New York City club, he (most of them are men) will tell you he lives in the Queens neighborhood better known as a gold mine of Greek restaurants. 
 ''It has become this weird 'Where do you live?' 'Astoria?' 'Well, who doesn't,' '' said Rob Gorden, a comedian who lives there on 44th Street. 
 Exactly how many comedians live in Astoria is impossible to pin down, and it is certain that some of New York's other artist-friendly neighborhoods -- Bushwick, Williamsburg and East Harlem among them -- house a few comedians. But when Mr. Allen was asked to help turn out a group of Astoria-based comedians for a photo shoot, he produced 27 with just one day's notice.
 Astoria is so rife with joke-tellers that Angela Bowers, a talent coordinator at VH1 who lives in the neighborhood, said she has been pestered while riding an exercise bike in her gym by comics hoping she will book them.
 ''I would say, 'Really? Now? Please don't try your jokes on me here,' '' Ms. Bowers said. ''When you are mid-workout the last thing you want to hear is someone's new set or have their CD passed to you.''
 The fact that many Astoria comics do not find the neighborhood funny in and of itself has not dissuaded them from living there. Nor, said Grant Gordon, a stand-up with curly Seth Rogen hair, has the relative absence of lanky dudes slinging electric guitars and tattooed young women.
 ''It's cool to live in Brooklyn, but comics aren't the cool kids,'' Mr. Gordon said, standing outside the Neptune Diner on Astoria Boulevard. ''We just want somewhere cheap. I've never had a hip bar that I go to that has, like, indie music bands. I just do shows and go home.''
 Paul Oddo, who performs in sketch and improv troupes and lives in one of the bigger bedrooms in the apartment Mr. Garrett was moving into, on 29th Street, said he decided to leave Bushwick the day someone shot an arrow across the common room in the warehouse on McKibben Street where he was living. ''It was constant weed smoke and parties,'' he said.
 His girlfriend, Emily Tarver, an improv performer, moved from Manhattan a year ago to an apartment two blocks away.
 Unlike certain areas of Brooklyn where pricey clothing shops and buzzy restaurants have changed old neighborhoods, Astoriaseems to have absorbed its newcomers with barely a blink. In the afternoon, schoolchildren in uniform walk home in quiet groups, sometimes accompanied by parents, past Egyptian, Greek and South American restaurants. Commercial 31st Street, under elevated tracks, remains a mishmash of dry cleaners, variety stores and un-ironic bars. 
 ''We have real people in Astoria,'' said Tim Young, who has appeared on Comedy Central's ''Premium Blend.'' ''All that's left in Manhattan are yuppies and crazies. If you're a people watcher, what's better than a bridge-and-tunnel crowd 24/7?''
 Naturally, Astoria has seeped into many comedians' acts.
 ''My block is so quiet,'' begins a joke that Moody McCarthy has added to his routine, ''if there's any yelling at night that means Ecuador scored a goal.''
 Andy Hendrickson, who performs at comedy clubs across the country, tells this one: ''I live in Astoria, which is great because anytime you need something you can just wish for it and it shows up on the curb. I got a nice TV just sitting on the curb on my block. I was leaving the house to look at DVD players. I walked out of my apartment and there was a DVD player sitting on the curb. I took it, went right back in. Still works perfectly. Thanks, magic curb! One time, I was headed out to get something to eat and I walked outside. Turkey sandwich. Thanks, magic curb!''
 But Astoria as a well of material is less important than its affordability. ''Astoria allows me to live for a long time without working at a day job,'' said Eliza Skinner, who performs with the improv group I Eat Pandas.
 The less hectic pace helps, too. Ted Alexandro, who has appeared on ''Late Show With David Letterman,'' can be found daily at the Waltz-Astoria cafe on Ditmars Boulevard, a relaxed place with a piano and beaten-in couches. ''It's a good place to sit and think,'' he said, a memo book and a cafe Americano on his table. 
 ''I write on my porch,'' said Anthony Atamanuik, who does regular extra work for ''30 Rock.'' ''I have a porch.'' His rent for a duplex three-bedroom house with a living room, dining room and full kitchen is $1,800 a month.
 Since most comedy clubs in New York pay only $25 a set on weeknights and $75 on weekends, comedians frequently take to their cars, or to La Guardia Airport, which is Astoria-adjacent, for out-of-town gigs that can pay a headliner $4,000 for a weekend.
 ''It's incredibly easy to get into or out of town,'' said Tony Deyo, who does stand-up nationally. 
 Another reason a particular fish will choose a particular cranny on a reef is not only the opportunities it offers for feeding, but the protection from predators. 
 ''It's a neighborhood you can come back to any time of night and feel safe,'' said Leah Bonnema, who has been a guest on the Opie and Anthony radio show. ''I used to live in deep Brooklyn and I'd have to take a car service all the way to my door.''
 There are certain dangers to living in an area colonized by comedians, like being corralled into a low-stakes poker game. 
 Mr. Hendrickson moved to an apartment on 34th Street in Astoria in 2007 from Washington, D.C., but neither he nor his roommate, Mr. Alberstadt, has done much decorating. In the living room there are two sets of golf clubs, a ratty green couch and an ironing board on which an iron and a bottle of Bud Light rested. 
 Near the TV, tuned to a baseball playoff game, the roommates had unfolded a card table. For $20 apiece, a group of comics had bought into a poker game: in addition to the two roommates were Jeff Kreisler, the author of ''Get Rich Cheating;'' the stand-ups Dan Cartwright, Chris Wilkes and Costaki Economopoulos; and Mr. Allen, who had been reading a book on Texas hold 'em, but was losing anyway.
 ''Just like stand-up, you can't learn it from a book, Dan,'' Mr. Hendrickson said.
 Mr. Wilkes was ahead in the competition to hold the floor's attention, relating a story about a woman who asked him and two other comics to perform at her wedding reception. He had asked if they should clean up their language. ''She said, 'No, do it just like in the club,' '' Mr. Wilkes said. 
 The poker players looked up from their cards.
 ''We had people getting up after the second guy's set,'' he continued. ''They were telling the bride and groom: 'Look, congratulations, we wish you the best and all, but we've got to go. This is too much for us.' ''
 An even worse idea, Mr. Hendrickson offered, was allowing men to get up on stage at clubs and propose to their girlfriends on bended knee. (Apparently it happens.) ''It ruins the whole show,'' Mr. Hendrickson said. ''The girl showing off her ring the whole time to friends and stuff.''
 In case you haven't been to a comedy show in a while, comedians are still having little luck with the ladies. And living in Astoria isn't necessarily helping.
 ''The only caveat about living here,'' Mr. Allen said, ''is convincing and extracting a beautiful girl with a sweet Manhattan apartment to come out to Queens, which in their mind is filled with serial killers, rusty above-ground tracks and barrels of fire straight from the scenes in Eddie Murphy's 'Coming to America.' When girls ask me where I live I say, 'I live on the Upper East East Side.' ''
 He could always try dating a fellow comedian. Helen Hong, a stand-up who lives in the East Village, once the nexus of the city's young bohemian culture, said she now feels marooned.
 ''Especially if you are hanging out with a bunch of comics after the show,'' she said, ''it's always like, 'Hey who's catching the N, R, W?' Or 'so and so is giving us a ride home, hop in.' And I have to be like, 'No I'm going the other way.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE PUNCH LINE: How many comics get off at this Queens subway station every day and call it home?(ST1)
I'LL RAISE YOU A CHUCKLE: A group of comics gather to play a low-stakes poker game in Astoria.(ST8)
 FUNHOUSE: Paul Oddo, far left, and John Garrett, right, at their Astoria apartment where Dan Allen, center, once lived.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (64%); ISLANDS & REEFS (62%); APPOINTMENTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



298 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Looking At Life As One Big Subscription

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
EVERYWHERE you look these days, businesses are selling subscriptions. Cable television, Internet and cellphone services are sold that way. So are business software, office printing and car rentals like Zipcars.
 For a business model that was used by publishers of periodicals back in the 17th century, subscriptions seem as functional and popular as ever for a variety of goods and services. Periodicals themselves are suffering -- Conde Nast announced last week that it was closing Gourmet and three other magazines -- but not because there's anything wrong with the practice of selling subscriptions.
 Marketers like them for good reason: Convince someone to take a subscription, and the revenue flows in for months to come. ''It is amazing how inertia takes over,'' says Peter S. Fader, a marketing professor at the University of Pennsylvania. Anyone who has signed up for a gym membership that is paid for but not used understands the genius behind subscriptions. 
 There is another reason that marketers use them: When a product has built-in obsolescence, like new versions of software or a magazine with a short newsstand life, subscriptions extend the ownership period. ''It removes the impedance to upgrading,'' says Erica Mina Okada, an associate professor of marketing at the University of Hawaii.
 Most of us mentally account for nearly all the money we spend, whether or not we realize it. We assign a book value to a purchase, Professor Okada says, based on what we pay. Usually we won't replace that product until we think we've gotten our money's worth. That explains why some people continue to wear ill-fitting shoes rather than chucking them.
 The rational way to think about your purchases, says V. Seenu Srinivasan, a Stanford business school professor, is to replace a product when the benefits of a new version outweigh the costs -- financial and psychological -- of upgrading. (He has developed a mathematical model for forecasting when consumers will upgrade, based on this theory.)
 A subscription moves consumers over the hurdle of mentally depreciating an existing asset. When you go on vacation and don't get any movies from Netflix, it is easier to accept having wasted $30 for your subscription that month than it would be to have bought a $30 DVD and never watched it.
 Marketers love the subscription concept, but is it any good for consumers? It sometimes seems as if cellphone deals were designed to alienate customers rather than to lure them into that sweet garden of inertia. 
 How many times have you heard someone say, ''I can't wait to get out of my cellphone contract''? In many cases, the customers think they are paying too much because they don't understand that the subscription bundles the price of the phone with the price of the service. (That's one purpose of early termination fees, to cover the cost of the hardware. Another is to keep you from canceling your subscription.)
 Some of the madness of the recent housing bubble can be blamed on an extension of the subscription mentality. What exactly were homeowners doing when they bought a house for little or no money down with the intention of holding it for two or three years before upgrading to a better home? They were treating an investment in real estate as though it were just another consumable product, to be disposed of with the same emotion one shows in recycling a monthly magazine.
 People who thought of their home that way got away with it only as long as the home's value grew enough to let them sell and trade up. 
 But thinking of other kinds of purchases as subscriptions may actually be useful, especially when they are often-replaced products.
 My colleague Saul Hansellhas pointed out in the Bits blog of The New York Times that you essentially do that when you buy PCs or digital cameras. Those who love technology might pay $900 every two years to get a new and improved product, and more utilitarian users might spend $300 every four years. Those who see technology as a bother might shell out $150 every eight years to upgrade.
 Frugality is a virtue, as we remind ourselves during this recession. But it's not ridiculous to spend on upgrades. Certainly some people value them more than others, just as some value the premium HBO cable package or unlimited texting on their cellphone plan. But a consumer can become more efficient by upgrading to a more fuel-efficient car or by buying a computer that crashes less often or boots more quickly. A new smartphone gives a person access to information everywhere, a liberating experience for anyone searching for a restaurant or a theater where no computer, bookstore or newsstand is nearby.
 PROFESSOR OKADA, who has studied how marketers persuade consumers to replace what they have, says, ''People don't upgrade as frequently as they should if they were acting rationally.''
 If more people thought this way, it could fuel consumption. Of course, it would also be likely to expand our disposal society. The two-year-old DVD player from Best Buy or the lightly used Leksvik bookcase from Ikea will be piled out by the curb next to old newspapers and magazines.
 The publishers of those magazines and newspapers recognize that the curbside stack is dwindling, and most know that they must offer their products online. Every media company on the Web seems to be trying to figure out how to return to paid subscriptions. It may be a lost cause, but new electronic reading devices like the Kindle or the rumored Apple tablet computer could offer a means to wean readers from the free business model.
 ''It's hard to initiate subscriptions,'' Professor Fader says. ''But once you get them over that hurdle, great things happen.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (78%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (73%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (72%); MATHEMATICS (71%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (55%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (52%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



299 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Credit Card Fees

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Rich and Poor Should Pay Same Price'' (Business Day, Oct. 2): Floyd Norris wrote of the debate over the fees that retailers pay when they accept debit and credit cards. Unfortunately, the legislation that Mr. Norris describes would harm consumers, small businesses and small financial institutions like the ones I represent. 
 As president of the Credit Union National Association, I represent nearly 8,000 credit unions in local communities in every state. Nearly all are concerned about the extremely harmful effects that interchange legislation would have on the services credit unions offer their members.
 Credit unions use interchange revenue to finance card programs and to ensure that their members have access to the same services provided by other, much larger financial institutions -- and typically more affordable. If interchange revenue were reduced or eliminated, credit unions would be forced into the impossible decision of raising fees for our members -- or eliminating our card programs altogether.
 In the midst of the financial and economic collapse of Wall Street, credit unions and other small financial institutions continued to provide honest support and services to the hard-working people who entrust us with their savings and depend on us for affordable credit. It would be a pity for Congress to pass legislation that hurts one of the most important building blocks of our economy at a time when we can least afford it. 
 I urge Congress not to be fooled by the lobbying campaign from giant retailers, and to protect credit unions and the Americans who depend on them.
 Dan Mica Washington, Oct. 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (91%); CREDIT UNIONS (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RETAILERS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CREDIT UNION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



300 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2267 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Wanted

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
SEVENTEEN months out of Rutgers University, they live in an unwelcome continuum of mass rejection. Between them, Kristy and Katie Barry, identical twins who grew up in Ohio, have applied for some 150 jobs: a magazine for diabetics, a Web site about board games and a commercial for green tea-flavored gum; fact-checking at Scholastic Books, copy editing for the celebrity baby section of People.com, road-tripping for College Sports Television. 
 They did not get any of these. More than a year has lapsed without so much as an interview. Apparently, even a canned response was impossible in New York.
 ''I wake up hopeful and check my e-mail and then all there is is the Merriam-Webster word of the day,'' Katie lamented. ''Or a stupid Facebook thing. So-and-so sent you a puppy. Or a drink. Great!'' 
 Kristy recently friended an editor on Facebook, thinking that was the ticket. Zip. She talked up a guy on the subway, found out he worked at a radio station, dispatched a resume. Zip. 
 They play softball, asking teammates what they are up to, sifting for leads. They took an improv class, something that might lead to something that actually led to nothing. 
 To imprint themselves on potential employers' minds, they send Buckeyes, a chocolate-coated peanut-butter confection that is an Ohio specialty they make to perfection. ''I'm going to send some out today,'' Kristy said the other morning. 
 Eyes crusted with sleep, Katie rummaged through Craigslist, journalismjobs.com, Whisper Jobs. She fastened on a notice for an editorial assistant at Cure magazine, aimed at cancer patients.
 A resume entered cyberspace. ''I've sent out something,'' she noted. ''I'm not wishing on milkweed seeds.''
 Kristy: ''I'm so tired of coming up with cover letters that I think are interesting, and then nothing.''
 Katie: ''You think, O.K., do I kick somebody's door in?''
 Kristy: ''My computer is burning up. It's saying, 'I've uploaded your resume so many times, I'm exhausted.' ''
 Good kids who went to good schools, the brassy, effervescent Barry twins, 24, always envisioned their young adulthood in New York City as a lush time of stimulating work, picturesque travel and a rich social orbit. But they graduated into a downbeat nightmare of a job market. According to an analysis of government data by the Economic Policy Institute, the unemployment rate for college graduates under 27 so far this year averaged 7.1 percent, nearly double what it was in 2007 and the highest yearly average in the 30 years this data point has been tracked. 
 And so Kristy and Katie and most of their friends are forever hunting for jobs, both mundane interim work to sustain them and long-term positions that could mean a career. Many days, it is as if they are stalking something on the endangered species list.
 They were born in Columbus, Ohio, the middle of six siblings. Their parents divorced when they were 15, and they don't stay in touch with their father but are close to their mother. She is remarried and lives in Weehawken, N.J., selling items for estates and art dealers and doing freelance writing. 
 The twins began at Marietta College in Ohio, then transferred as juniors to Rutgers's campus in Newark. They graduated in May 2008 with journalism degrees, internships under their belt and student loans totaling $39,000 apiece.
 Their dream is to work together in sports reporting or have a TV show, but they are flexible. They talk of teaching piano, or inventing, say, a lipstick-case microphone. ''If you're in a bar you would hold it up and say, 'This guy is creepy, get out of here,' '' Kristy explained.
 She works as a bartender, three nights a week, at Dive 75 on West 75th Street, making about $800 a week. Katie had been working at another bar, but was fired in June after landing in Cancun to begin a vacation. Her boss said she played the music too loud.
 This summer, the twins moved from Newark into a cozy two-bedroom fourth-floor walk-up on West 73rd Street, $2,900 a month. They share it with their brother Zack, 22, a junior at Parsons the New School for Design. Occupying the living room couch is Zack's classmate, Rostislav Roznoshchik, who works part time at the Blue Donkey Bar. He wants to be a public artist. 
 Growing up, they mowed lawns, shoveled snow, fetched mail for the elderly. And, of course, there was the squirrel lady, who could not countenance roadkill not receiving respectful burials. She gave the twins $5 an animal to shovel corpses off the streets and bring them to her. Money is money.
 Those weren't perfect jobs, and the last one they had in Ohio was what convinced them it was time to head East. They worked as clerks at the Dancing Donkey, a crafts store with a donkey out back named Donk for kids to feed. Business leaned toward slow. The twins invented games to endure the tedium, like who could stay the longest in her chair without moving.
 Now, jobless, days going by one at a time, Katie found herself saying things like: ''It's driving me bonkers. Like what has my existence come to?'' And: ''I'm going to stab myself.''
 She showed her nails: nibbled beyond existence. ''I've been like a woodchuck,'' she said. ''My hands hurt.'' 
 Kristy held up hers: gone.
 The dogs today. To pick up spare money, Katie fills in for a dog walker when he's away, which is not that often.
 It's not nanotechnology, but you do need to know technique. The first dog, Cassie, for instance, does not like to budge. The trick passed on from the owner was to drop a box of tissues on the dog's hindquarters.
 Sure enough: tissues dropped, dog out the door.
 Dogs were fine, but the work got Katie's thoughts going the wrong way. There's a guy she sees around the neighborhood who wears plastic bags for shoes. When she's walking dogs she begins to worry that that is going to be her, without work, stumbling along in plastic bags. 
 Of course the twins have no health insurance. Not long ago, Katie had a bad earache -- felt like a screwdriver pushing into her ear -- that she self-medicated with tea and over-the-counter pills. Kristy has been sensing pain on the right side of her jaw. It hurts when she eats something hard or yawns widely. 
 What they do have is friends, and they support one another. A guy who manages a tomato-canning plant gives them canned tomatoes, olive oil and coconut milk. An accountant ex-boyfriend of Kristy's does their taxes. He also sends gifts, like a CD to learn Russian, although Kristy has never expressed even tepid interest in learning Russian. They, in turn, rake the leaves at his New Jersey home and wash his car. 
 Another friend works as a waiter at an Italian restaurant while he tries to locate voiceover work. The twins drop in with a big group, then he'll round up people to run up a tab at Kristy's bar. 
 One night at Prohibition, a bar on Columbus Avenue near 84th Street, they slid into outdoor tables with a dozen comrades. Their brother Zack told how he and a friend had been handing out homemade cards to strangers to lift their spirits. One says on the outside, ''I would be lying if I said ...'' And then inside it says, ''That you aren't gorgeous, because you are. Please pass this on to someone you feel is gorgeous.'' 
 One member of the group was in law school, another training for a career in ophthalmology. Others were doing things like sleeping in a museum as part of an exhibition, selling at Bloomingdale's, bartending. 
 A guy hoping to start an online business was taking a $600 aptitude test to tell him what he's good at.
 Mom came in for lunch, at a Chipotle on 42nd Street. They began by joining hands and saying what they were thankful for, then Mom said, ''Tell me something new.''
 Katie mentioned a baby-sitting job: two days. 
 They had gotten some good buys at a thrift shop: a coin belt for $3, an ''Animal House'' DVD for $2, an X-Men tennis racket for $3.27. 
 The twins love Mom, whose name is Tyna Walker-Lay, but she can get to them at times. Like when she says she can't tell the relatives back home they're bartenders. She says that just about every time they talk.
 Katie said: ''Relatives in Ohio think working in a bar is a step down from prostitution.''
 Katie said to Mom: ''You know, you once thought we should be schoolteachers and have the summers off.''
 Mom: ''That's still a thought down the road.'' 
 Mom points out, with regularity, that they need jobs with benefits. She has noted that a prison guard gets benefits. 
 Grandma e-mails from Columbus, telling the twins she prays for them. Or that Ohio has openings for office clerks. A few months ago, when Katie wrote that she had split up with a boyfriend, Grandma came back with: ''Are you girls ever going to get married?''
 Mom had to run: ''Some of us have to be productive, have benefits, 401(k)'s.''
 She told them she loved them.
 They claimed a couch upstairs at the Aroma Espresso Bar on West 72nd Street, where they like to ingest caffeine and comb the Web: Think, think, think.
 The other day, a brainstorm hit. They would devise a blog called Twin Town, write about their lives and invite guest material, somehow woo advertisers.
 Kristy said she could do a photo display with the gnome bank that she had lugged around Newark, snapping pictures of it at the park, at a beauty store, in a police car.
 Katie said she could list idiotic reasons people give for breakups. Kristy liked that one, mentioned the guy who ditched her because he said her jokes weren't funny. Katie brought up the friend whose boyfriend left after telling her she slammed his car door too hard. 
 ''Excellent,'' Kristy said.
 Happy Hour at Dive 75, Kristy at the bar. Familiar faces trickled in, spat out orders. Here was Ren Quiroz, the friend who manages the canning plant. Another friend, involved in pharmaceutical pricing, showed his new tattoo. Their roommate, Rostislav, arrived. He said he earned $4 at the Blue Donkey today. Katie showed up for a beer.
 Kristy worked the crowd, playing Hot Dice and Connect Four. She doesn't mind bartending, but it's no career, not for her. As she put it: ''Bartending is like dating a guy you know you're not going to marry.''
 And: ''I keep wondering how do I propel myself out of the bar world, where I look cute and pour beer, into a world where I have thoughtful conversation about the world rather than stuff like why do people clap at the end of good movies. Or, why do you think Heidi Klum married Seal? I don't care why!''
 Katie was moping a bit, saying, ''I've eaten so many canned beans lately.''
 And: ''I need a life coach to come in and tell me what I'm doing wrong. I keep singing that song, 'Something's Got to Give.' ''
 The wind picked up. They got drinks from Starbucks and sat in the park on Columbus and 66th Street, the acceleration of life around them.
 Katie said that a friend put her on a list to get into focus groups: ''They pay you to say if you like green ketchup or hate Lysol. I can do that.'' 
 Kristy said the bar had been so slow one night that she found herself singing Celine Dion to the fish tank: ''There's got to be a way out of this,'' she said. 
 They had been chewing over ways to get noticed, inject some news into their lives. Mom always told them: ''If you continue to do what you've always done, you'll always be what you've always been.'' 
 Kristy suggested hiring a helicopter to scatter her resume over Manhattan.
 They had a saxophone, so Katie thought of playing in the subway with a sign inviting job offers. ''I could have Mom sing,'' she said.
 She dug out her phone and called Mom. Mom did not embrace the idea, mentioning how mortified she would be, saying she would have to wear a hat and dark glasses. 
 They looked up to find Michael Moore shambling past with a small entourage. They caught up to him, told him they admired him and were looking for jobs and wondered when he knew what he wanted to do. He told them how he was unemployed, collecting $98 a week, saw the General Motors chairman on TV, and on and on.
 And: ''I realized when bad things happen it's really just the window to the next good thing happening. That's not too hippy-dippy a thing to say, but that's what I found.'' 
 Kristy said, ''Yeah, I know what you mean.''
 And Michael Moore said, ''On the other hand, when things are going really well, it's like, when's the next shoe going to drop.'' 
 He laughed. They laughed.
 He said, ''Thank you very much and good luck.''
 Katie launched into ''Nowhere Man,'' then ''In My Life,'' the sax's mournful wail ringing through the tunnels in the Times Square subway station on a Friday afternoon. Her sign read: ''Don't Give Money, Give Business Cards.''
 Kristy had come along, lugging the milk cases that served as a music stand. It was their luck that a seven-piece band roared away on a nearby platform. 
 Some people took pictures. Most did nothing. A few cards fluttered into Katie's case: a music combo, a realtor, a music editing firm, a comic book store, a placement agency and a dentist in Kentucky. Plus 54 cents. 
 They had had a meeting with Deadspin, a sports blog, but no real jobs there, just the suggestion to join an Australian football team and write about it. Katie was pursuing an internship at the United Nations. Kristy decided to try to interest New York magazine in an article about the effect on kids who appear in unflattering YouTube videos. From a posting on Monster.com, she heard from someone who wondered if she could translate Arabic. 
 ''That was like the world laughing at me,'' she said.
 And so it went, and so it went. Jobs were out there somewhere. Something had to give.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SEARCHING: Katie, left, and Kristy Barry moved to New York looking for opportunity. But more than a year has passed without one interview. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MB1)
DAY BY DAY: Clockwise from top left, the Barry twins traveling and stretching for softball, working a shift at Dive 75 (Kristy) and playing the saxophone for business cards (Katie).
 HOPE: A week with Kristy, left, and Katie: Video, nytimes.com/nyregion (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT COVER LETTERS (77%); ATHLETES (76%); SOFTBALL (72%); BOARD GAMES (72%); DIABETES (72%); CANCER (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%); MERRIAM-WEBSTER (56%); CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



301 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OPEN & SHUT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Chronicle of a Changing City

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
THE HALLOWEEN WAREHOUSE stores its inventory in a rented tractor-trailer and each September searches for vacant storefronts in Manhattan, like the 11,000-square-foot space (one month's rent: $50,000) it now occupies on Broadway near 100th Street in the Ariel West, a new residential high-rise. Costumes start at $5, and include the usual lineup of clowns, pirates, pimps and Bollywood stars, plus a huge array of sexy women's getups (the ''vixen pirate wench'' goes for $40). You can also pick up a mat of chest hair for $8.99. (''Place on chest for that macho look.'') ''It's a new phenomenon -- a landlord will take a short-term tenant so that potential tenants can come in and see the space with lots of customers,'' said Amira Yunis, an executive vice president and principal with Newmark Knight Frank, the broker. ''It's almost like an open house.'' 
 SUKKAH DEPOT, the self-proclaimed ''Largest Sukkah Distributor in the World,'' and Leiter's Sukkahs (''Largest Sukkah Manufacturer in the World''), spent the last month opposite each other on 39th Street between 13th and 14th Avenues, as they have in a friendly rivalry for the past several years. Both sell the temporary huts where observant Jews eat (and, sometimes, sleep) during the weeklong harvest festival of Sukkot, which ended Saturday. Inventory being packed up last week included $200 nylon pop-up models and custom wooden mansions for $5,000. The industrial-looking block is lined with furniture, food and Judaica stores. ''With the economy, fewer people bought sukkahs this year,'' said Chaim Freid, 25, a rabbinical student who was working at Leiter's. ''More people made their own sukkahs.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OPEN: Sept. 28, Upper West Side
 SHUT: Oct. 9, Borough Park, Brooklyn (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COREY KILGANNON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RELIGIOUS STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%)

COMPANY: BGC PARTNERS INC (55%)

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



302 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CONNECTICUT DINING SPECIALS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: New Offers Reach Out To Those Who Hesitate

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
DINING out is one of those pleasures that many people cut back on during tough economic times. The more expensive ''special occasion'' restaurants often suffer the most. But restaurateurs are learning to adjust, offering more specials that do not require an occasion to celebrate.
 ''It's smart marketing that's going to save us, '' said Mary Schaffer, chief executive of Napa & Co. in Stamford. Known for its wide-ranging wine list, Napa & Co. offers monthlong specials of 50 percent off all wines from a given region. This month's region is Oregon, last month it was South America, and in November it will be Italy. On one evening a month, usually midmonth, this modern American restaurant also features a four-course prix fixe dinner at $50, with the courses determined by the season. 
 Other places are offering special deals at lunch. A three-course $35 prix fixe menu, with two options in each course, is available at the French-accented Union League Cafe in New Haven. New Canaan's Italian Sole Ristorante provides an express lunch six days a week: two courses for $14 ($20 with a glass of pinot grigio or merlot). Morello Bistro, a modern Italian restaurant in a beautifully tiled interior in Greenwich, offers a two-course $20 prix fixe lunch menu Monday through Friday. 
 Ondine, in Danbury, is staying open an extra day (Monday) and extending its Sunday hours (previously 11:30 to 2 p.m.) to 7 p.m., to avoid cutting staff. Dieter Thiel, the chef-owner, has also expanded his a la carte menu on the less expensive end, though he continues to offer his five-course $59 prix fixe menu.
 Sarah and Bernard Bouissou, proprietors of Bernard's, a charming village inn in Ridgefield, converted their upstairs dining room to Sarah's Wine Bar, a casual bistro with a different menu than the more expensive restaurant downstairs. ''The check may total less at the bistro,'' Mrs. Bouissou said, ''but people come more often. In these times, you have to think outside the box.'' The bistro also has a wine list of 25 bottles from around the globe at $25 each. Entrees downstairs run from $28 to $38, but at the bistro they are $10 to $20 for a choice of 16 small plates, and $15 to $32 (steak) for a choice of 13 large plates. 
 One of the most unusual marketing ideas is at Meigas, the Spanish restaurant in Norwalk. At its Saturday and Sunday brunches, which feature an a la carte menu of traditional Spanish specialties, with entree prices between $18 and $25, children eat free (one child per one adult). On Monday through Wednesday evenings, a three-course dinner for $24 offers seven superb choices in each category (starter, entree and dessert). On Thursday and Sunday, bottles are half-price on the carefully selected wine list, where regular prices run from $28 to $950. There is also a daily tapas menu, $55 per couple, featuring 10 ample courses plus dessert. 
 At Bespoke in New Haven, a city with three professional theaters, the Early Bird Pre-Theater Special is meant to lure diners before theater openings. At $29 for three small courses, with four options in each, this is real value, especially considering how good the food is and how attractive the sophisticated backdrop is.
 Seafood is a specialty at Harbor Lights in East Norwalk, which features a three-course prix fixe dinner menu at $29.95. For an appetizer, there are two soups and two salads to choose from; the four entree choices include a 1 1/4-pound stuffed lobster; and a dessert can be selected from the regular menu. 
 The menu at Peppercorn's Grill, a well-established Italian restaurant in Hartford, changes daily, but there is usually a three-course dinner for $24.95, with three to five starters, five entrees and two desserts to choose from. Even the elegant Restaurant Jean-Louis in Greenwich is offering special-value options: a $29 lunch menu of appetizer and entree or entree and dessert. (If you choose appetizer and entree, an extra $5 will provide dessert as well.) A dinner tasting menu at $59 gives a choice among three starters, an entree (also three choices) and dessert. Known for its excellent wine list, the restaurant is also offering two wine specials: a three-glass pairing at $35 and a five-glass pairing at $49.
 At the ever-popular West Street Grill, facing the green in Litchfield, James O'Shea, the proprietor, is offering a bistro menu on Thursday and Sunday evenings. The six to eight bistro choices are priced from $18, for shepherd's pie or moules frites, to $23, for steak frites (regular entree prices run from $21 to $38). 
 The Woodward House on the village green in Bethlehem has a noteworthy three-course dinner available Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday for $29.99. (A la carte entrees are normally $28 to $35.) The menu changes every six weeks, but you might currently find several salads, housemade soups, New York strip steak, salmon, Gorgonzola-stuffed chicken breast, pasta and, for dessert, berry crisp and bread pudding. Another good value is the two-course Sunday brunch at $25, including coffee.
 On Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday Pastorale Bistro & Bar in Lakeville offers the Mini, three small courses for $16.50. On Wednesday there is also a pasta special for $12; on Thursday, a one-course fondue special for $24; and on Sunday night, wines by the bottle are sold at half price. But before getting into specifics, Karen Hamilton, a co-owner of Pastorale, had a more immediate reaction to the question of specials. ''We're still here,'' she said with a laugh. ''That's special.'' 
 Where The Deals Are
 Extra Efforts
 BESPOKE 266 College Street, New Haven; (203) 562-4644; bespokenewhaven.com.
 HARBOR LIGHTS 84 Seaview Avenue, Norwalk; harborlightsrestaurant-ct.com; (203) 866-3364.
 MEIGAS 10 Wall Street, Norwalk; (203) 866-8800; meigasrestaurant.com.
 NAPA & CO. 75 Broad Street, Stamford; (203) 353-3319; napaandcompany.com.
 ONDINE 69 Pembroke Road, Danbury; (203) 746-4900; ondinerestaurant.com.
 PASTORALE BISTRO & BAR 223 Main Street, Lakeville; pastoralebistro.com; 
 (860) 435-1011.PEPPERCORN'S GRILL 357 Main Street, Hartford; peppercornsgrill.com; (860) 547- 1714.
 RESTAURANT JEAN-LOUIS 61 Lewis Street, Greenwich; restaurantjeanlouis.com; (203) 622-8450.
 SARAH'S WINE BAR AT BERNARD'S 20 West Lane, Ridgefield; bernardsridgefield.com; (203) 438-8282.
 SOLE RISTORANTE 105 Elm Street, New Canaan; soleofnewcanaan.com; (203) 972-8887.
 UNION LEAGUE CAFe 1032 Chapel Street, New Haven; unionleaguecafe.com; (203) 562- 4299.
 WEST STREET GRILL 43 West Street, Litchfield; weststreetgrill.com; (860) 567-3885. 
 THE WOODWARD HOUSE 4 The Green, Bethlehem; thewoodwardhouse.com; (203) 266-6902.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENTICEMENTS: Bespoke has a prix fixe menu. Chilean sea bass, left, is part of a $24 three-course dinner at Meigas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); WINE (90%); MENU PRICES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



303 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Racing Time And Taliban To Rebuild In Pakistan

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and IRFAN ASHRAF

DATELINE: NAZARABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
The fighting is over and the villagers have returned, but life here remains suspended. Villagers' buffaloes are gone, and their harvests are spoiled. Power is still out in many areas. Schools, blown up by the Taliban, lay in heaps. Even the bricks have been sold. 
 ''We are orphans,'' said Akbar Khan, a school principal. ''No one has come to ask about us.''
 This is the upper Swat Valley, ground zero for the Taliban in northern Pakistan. While urban areas farther south are bustling and back to life, the real test of Pakistan's fight against the Taliban in Swat will take place here, in the impoverished villages where the militant movement began. 
 But more than two months after the end of active combat, with winter fast approaching, reconstruction has yet to begin, and little has been accomplished on the ground to win back people's trust, villagers and local officials say. 
 The lag, they argue, is risky: It was a sense of near-total abandonment by the government that opened people to the Taliban to begin with, they say, and the longer people are left to fend for themselves, the greater the chance of a relapse.
 ''I'm really worried,'' said Javed Iqbal, the chief secretary of the North-West Frontier Province, where Swat is located. ''We do not have the luxury of time. 
 ''If you don't start showing something more tangible,'' he continued, ''I wouldn't be surprised to see the state of anarchy returning.''
 Pakistan's government says it is tending to the needs of the people of Swat, an aid effort that was estimated last month to require $1.2 billion. The country's largest donor, the United States, is about to pump billions of dollars of aid into Pakistan, and there have been international conferences to gather funds. 
 But money for reconstruction in this battered area is still almost nonexistent, officials say, and aid organizations, encumbered by security rules, have been slow to respond. 
 ''The government thinks people are slowly getting back to normal lives,'' said Pervez Tahir, chairman of the economics department at Forman Christian College in Lahore. ''The reality is, the poor were ignored before, and the poor are ignored after.''
 That pattern has been borne out for much of Pakistan's troubled 62-year history, and is particularly severe here.
 Even before the war, things in Nazarabad were broken. Villagers made donations to replace a coil in the town's aging electric transformer. There was no running water or indoor plumbing, and teachers chipped in for a water pump for the school. With no one important to lobby for it, the village was left to fend for itself.
 So when the Taliban first surfaced, in the form of FM radio broadcasts by a cleric who talked about how people's needs had been ignored, many here saw salvation.
 ''The level of deprivation was unbearable,'' said Muhammad Shah Hussein, a teacher in Nazarabad. ''When the Taliban came, there was a sense of hope.''
 But as time went on, the Taliban's tactics became more coercive, and sympathy evaporated when the group blew up the village's schools.
 ''We told them, 'The people are so poor and weak, please don't destroy this school,' '' said Akbar Khan, the principal.
 But that was of no use. Now students sit on small stacks of bricks, perched like birds in a strange new outdoor classroom. The girls here still do not go to school at all -- their school was never rebuilt after it was destroyed, and local custom frowns on their being out in the open. 
 About 20 percent of all schools in the Swat Valley are destroyed or unusable, according to figures provided by the United Nations Children's Fund, Unicef.
 So far, the main aid response here has been the distribution of tents. Unicef, which is leading that effort, says it has had a slow response from donors, receiving about 60 percent of the money it asked for. And after Taliban attacks killed seven United Nations employees, including their director of education, reconstruction has been put on hold in the war-affected areas. 
 Tired of waiting, Mr. Iqbal took financing from other areas in his province to rebuild 65 schools in Swat. 
 The United States, which has earmarked $20 million for school reconstruction in the area, last month pledged hundreds of millions of dollars for social development. But Shakeel Qadr Khan, the provincial official in charge of reconstruction, said it was not clear how much, if any, of that would go to rebuilding Swat. 
 The years of Taliban rule and a summer of military operations have taken their toll on farming, too. Khazwar, a farmer from the village of Guelarai, said his wheat crop spoiled and his fruit was never picked, leaving him without money for seed and fertilizer. The secretary of agriculture for the province estimated that it would cost as much as $800 million to help farmers get back on their feet.
 ''All of Swat is suffering from this,'' said Mr. Khazwar, who like many rural Pakistanis uses one name.
 The military offensive here did not cause mass destruction or large numbers of civilian deaths, as it had in past campaigns, and the army now has bases all over the valley. The military presence has been welcomed by an overwhelming majority in Mingora, who felt before that they had been abandoned to the militants. 
 But in the villages where militants were strong as early as 2003, people have now come to fear the military, too, making getting back to normal even harder.
 Mr. Hussein estimated that more than half of his male students were not coming to school because they were afraid the military would arrest them for Taliban involvement. He is also nervous about sticking out, now that he has assumed the role of spokesman for families, mostly illiterate, asking about relatives who are in military custody.
 The one task that is proceeding at a rapid pace is the establishment of local militias. Jamal Nasir Khan, a political leader near here, is recruiting hundreds of men in villages in the upper valley to defend against the Taliban. Mr. Khan, who fled to the capital, Islamabad, in 2007 and returned late this summer, argues that security should come first. 
 ''People want normalization in a month -- it won't happen,'' said Mr. Khan, who puts on American-style army boots, a flak jacket and an M-16 rifle anytime he leaves his house. ''It's not like a genie will come to make things better.''
 Mr. Khan depends entirely on the military. He is driven in military vehicles. His food is cooked by the army. And he is practically alone in the area. None of the seven district officials who used to run the area have come back. Few high school teachers or doctors have returned.
 Illiteracy makes villagers easy to ignore. Taja Bibi, a villager who cannot read, but whose bright 12-year-old daughter, Rabihat, aches to return to school, said she had not even bothered to ask when it might reopen. 
 ''We can't argue, and we can't respond,'' she said, sitting on a dirt floor in a small house that is home to more than 20 people. ''They don't consider us worth talking to.''
 For Mr. Hussein, creating an educated class that knows its rights is the only hope for change in Pakistan. 
 But that requires schools, and the ones in his village are gone.
 ''We are the losers,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boys attended class on the rubble of their destroyed school in Nazarabad. About 20 percent of all schools in the Swat Valley are destroyed or unusable, Unicef says.
 Rabihat, 12, aches to return to school in Nazarabad, but her mother, Taja Bibi, background, had little hope that the girls school would reopen.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON TANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details Nazarabad, Pakistan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); LOBBYING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



304 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: The Health Care Sprawl

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT. 
The public editor can be reached by e-mail: public@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LAST week, the Senate moved closer to formal debate on a sweeping overhaul of the health care system after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said one leading proposal would cut the nation's budget deficit even as it insured millions more Americans.
 But after tumultuous town hall meetings, false charges of ''death panels,'' a prime-time speech by President Obama, and warring press conferences and television ads, a majority of Americans -- 59 percent in a New York Times/CBS News poll last month -- say they are confused about what Congress is considering. 
 The news media, including The Times, have been accused of failing to help clear up the confusion. Margot Ammidown of Asheville, N.C., summing up what I heard from other readers, wrote in late summer that, while she thought The Times's coverage of the health care debate was ''better than most,'' she still felt there was ''too much of the food fight in Washington and town hall meetings and the scorecard in polls, and not enough to help readers make a decision what to support and who to believe.'' 
 I understood her frustration. Health care is a sprawling subject that is hard for a newspaper to get right. It involves economics, politics, and philosophical and moral values. There are complex delivery systems and hard-to-explain concepts, like how spending $829 billion over 10 years and adding 29 million people to health insurance rolls could save the government money in the long run. There are terms to keep straight -- single payer vs. public option -- lobbyists for special interests, and five separate comprehensive proposals under consideration in Congress, running to thousands of pages. One moment Olympia Snowe, the Republican senator from Maine, looked like the pivotal player. But maybe it will be Blanche Lincoln, the fiscally conservative Democrat from Arkansas.
 Jonathan Landman, who was in charge of the paper's online operations until he became culture editor last month, said, ''Some things the rhythms of daily journalism are not suited to do -- and it's nobody's fault -- and one of them is a multilayered, complicated, running story.'' He said a newspaper can step back from time to time and explain the background and context of events, or explore part of a big issue in depth, something I think The Times has done frequently in the health care debate, mostly quite well. (That includes a series of analytical editorials, like one published today.) But Landman said it cannot include all the background and context every day in every article, so readers who miss an explanatory article can get lost.
 Robert Pear, a Washington bureau reporter who has covered health policy for more than 25 years and is widely admired for his expertise, said that when he hears from confused readers, he often calls them and tries to answer their questions or connect them to helpful information. It is a generous gesture but not a practical solution for millions of readers of the newspaper and its Web site.
 Weeks before Ammidown wrote to me, Times editors asked themselves the question she raised: Were they doing enough to help readers understand the most consequential social policy debate since the creation of Medicare 44 years ago? They decided, Landman said, that ''all the parts were there,'' but they didn't add up to a coherent whole. The parts included coverage from Washington by Pear and at least five other reporters watching Congress, the White House and the lobbying; articles by another five reporters on the business desk in New York; and a series by Kevin Sack, a national correspondent, illustrating the issues of health care through the stories of real people -- like some kidney patients in Atlanta, including illegal immigrants, who feared they would die when a hospital closed a dialysis clinic.
 To pull it together and help readers make better sense of the debate -- and find background information when they want it -- editors created a blog, Prescriptions. It went online in August, with a version appearing daily in the printed paper to tie the two together.
 Prescriptions, much like the paper's online presidential election site last year, is a rich trove. It offers multiple daily posts on breaking events or related issues, like whether overweight people should pay more for health insurance. There are links to recent news articles in The Times and elsewhere, primers comparing the various Congressional health plans, examinations of health systems in other countries, answers to frequently asked questions, explainers on topics like insurance exchanges, and even a history of past efforts to change the health care system. Want to do your own research? There are links to original documents, like the Congressional bills and government statistics on health spending.
 Two weeks ago, The Times started an online forum, Health Care Conversations, inviting readers to comment on any of 20 related topics and -- a first for The Times -- allowing others to respond in a virtual conversation. More than 1,300 comments had been posted by Friday. The two most popular topics: the public option and single-payer health care.
 The online offerings are impressive but not always easy to find and not fully integrated with other parts of the paper's Web site, like Times Topics pages, which have more good information. ''It's still probably not as user friendly or as searchable as you'd ideally want, but we're trying,'' said Tim Race, a business editor who helps assemble Prescriptions.
 The Times has focused its coverage on proposals that editors and reporters judge to be politically feasible, which means that tort reform, popular with conservatives, and single-payer health coverage, popular with liberals, have received relatively scant attention. Anger boiled over recently, when an article on Medicare-for-all, a version of single-payer, explained all the reasons it was dead, and arguments against it, without going into arguments for it. Fairness and Accuracy In Reporting, a liberal media watchdog, urged followers to object, and I received roughly 1,000 messages.
 Katharine Seelye, the reporter, said she was trying to explain why Medicare-for-all was not going anywhere and provided links online to arguments for it. ''I thought the substance of it had been dealt with elsewhere many times,'' she said. But The Times had not seriously explored the issue during the current debate, and I thought FAIR had a point.
 The public option, a government-run health plan that would compete with private insurers, favored by a majority in the Times/CBS News poll, has been covered extensively as a political story. But the substance has received less attention. Jill Abramson, the managing editor for news, said she wondered if the paper had done enough. ''If people had understood it more, would the politics have turned out differently?'' she said. ''I don't know, and I'm not saying this from a point of advocacy.'' Editors need to keep asking: Do their judgments about what is realistic become self-fulfilling prophecies?
 My assistant, Michael McElroy, asked Ammidown, the North Carolina reader, to take a look at Prescriptions and tell us if it changed her mind. She said she found the blog useful, and thought the coverage in the printed paper had improved but still fell short. ''Over all, it's hard to tell if it's the coverage that's disappointing or that the whole debate has been so completely demoralizing,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



305 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Help From Fannie and Freddie

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
HOME buyers are not accustomed to getting much help with their mortgage financing; generally, they're happy just to get a loan closed.
 At least one group of borrowers, though, could get a break. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled companies that buy mortgages in bulk from lenders, are offering financing incentives for buyers of foreclosed homes that Fannie and Freddie own.
 Home buyers have until Oct. 30 to apply to take advantage of Freddie Mac's SmartBuy program, which began in July and offers up to 3.5 percent of a home's sale price to help cover closing costs. 
 To qualify, the home must be a principal residence and must be chosen from Freddie Mac's HomeSteps Web site for its foreclosed properties (homesteps.com/homeshoppers.htm). Loans must close by year's end. The HomeSteps properties also include two-year warranties on major appliances and electrical, plumbing, air-conditioning and heating systems. 
 HomeSteps includes relatively few properties in New York City and the surrounding counties, however, in part because Freddie Mac accepts few loans greater than $417,000. Last week, for instance, the site had no homes in Manhattan and five in Westchester County, including a three-bedroom apartment in Yonkers and a four-bedroom home in South Salem, both listed for $300,000. (There were a few more homes in New Jersey and in Fairfield County, Connecticut.)
 Nor does the Fannie Mae program, HomePath.com, have many foreclosed homes for sale in the greater New York region. A one-bedroom apartment on West 110th Street, selling for $378,000, was the site's only Manhattan listing last week. (Thirteen homes were available in Nassau County, by contrast.) 
 The incentives for buyers in Fannie Mae's ongoing program are even more aggressive than those offered by Freddie Mac.
 Through participating lenders, Fannie will offer mortgages to buyers who make a down payment of 3 percent, and these buyers do not have to secure private mortgage insurance, or P.M.I., as they would when doing business with nearly any other lender. 
 A Fannie Mae spokeswoman, Amy Bonitatibus, said the company ''already owns the risk'' on the property. ''So buyers can save a couple hundred dollars a month in insurance,'' she said.
 Fannie Mae will often offer closing cost assistance to buyers, so long as they negotiate for it. Unlike Freddie Mac's, Fannie's assistance level is not capped. Under the program, the average homeowner has received payments equivalent to 3.75 percent of the loan's value. 
 Until June, Fannie Mae also offered to pay for home repairs during the borrower's first six months in the property, up to $3,000. The company is considering whether to renew, or change, that program.
 Also, in areas hit hardest by the economic downturn that have qualified for federal financing through the National Stabilization Program, which helps distressed communities, Fannie Mae may discount its foreclosed properties by up to 15 percent. 
 Most of Fannie Mae's foreclosure incentives are offered to buyers who will use the property as their primary residence, or so-called public entities like Neighborhood Housing Services and other organizations that rehabilitate properties and sell them to owner-occupants.
 Banks, meanwhile, have been leery of offering financing incentives on foreclosed homes. But Brad Geissen, the chief executive of Foreclosure.com, which, among other things, posts listings of foreclosed homes, said that in his discussions with banking executives, banks appear ready to offer similar programs. 
 ''We're starting to see banks loosen up on financing and consider a number of different incentive programs to move their inventory,'' Mr. Geissen said. ''I know a number of banks who are getting ready to release programs like this, between now and the end of the year.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: MORTGAGES (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (79%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); HVAC SYSTEMS (76%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



306 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER FALL IN EUROPE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Europe Beckons, Waving Deals

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
THERE may be no better time to take a European vacation than now. 
 Fall in Europe normally draws fewer crowds, brings milder weather and offers significant savings for travelers who waited out the summer months. Combine that with a global travel slump and you've got a bargain hunter's dream. Desperate to make up the drop in tourists, even the most popular European destinations like Britain and Italy are trying to lure visitors with sales.
 Another factor: Americans can still take advantage of a relatively solid dollar. Though the dollar weakened at the start of fall, it was about as strong in late September against the euro as the same time last year, at about $1.50, and even stronger against the pound at $1.60 instead of $1.80 or so. 
 Among the best deals are hotel and airfare packages to Amsterdam and London, down more than 30 percent on Expedia compared with last fall. Deals to Rome and Barcelona are down 26 and 17 percent respectively. And though it might be dreary this time of year, Dublin is offering a significant bang for your buck. With hotels averaging $92.40 a night, a year-over-year savings of 44 percent, Orbitz listed the city as its top fall ''shoulder season'' destination. 
 Airfare to Europe has dropped, too. Overall, fall fares to Europe are tracking 13 percent below last year, said Joel Grus, the so-called fareologist at Bing Travel, the new Microsoft search engine that predicts airfare prices. If all you care about is scoring a cheap flight, he recommends Madrid, where the average round trip from Kennedy Airport in New York has dropped more than 30 percent this fall compared with a year ago, to $561. ''Some trips are as cheap as $524,'' Mr. Grus said, though seats at those prices are scarce. The next best deals are to Paris and Rome, where flights are down about 15 percent from a year ago. 
 There are also plenty of hotel bargains for travelers who prefer to piece together their own trips, as properties try to lure guests with attractive rates and extra perks. Concorde Hotels & Resorts, which has 22 hotels in Europe, is offering rates from about 80 euros ($120) a night with buffet breakfast and a gift, starting Nov. 1. The One More Night promotion of Small Luxury Hotels of the World offers three nights for two, four nights for three and so on when paying with an American Express card through November. 
 While there are many last-minute hotel deals to be found on sites like Travelzoo.com and Lastminutetravel.com, hotels are also offering incentives to book early. In London, for example, the Metropolitan and the Halkin, part of the high-end COMO Hotels and Resorts, have rooms starting at $:199 and $:229 ($318.40 and $366.40) a night respectively, for two-night stays booked seven days in advance.
 Package deals are plentiful, in part because of packagers' ability to negotiate favorable rates with hotels, and offer some of the best bargains. ''Our European partners want Americans to come, allowing us to lock in up to 25 percent discounts -- extraordinary rates not only with hotels but with air carriers too,'' said Steve Perillo, president of Perillo Tours, a specialist in Italian tours, based in Woodcliff, N.J. For example, it is offering a four-night Rome Rendezvous package, including flights from New York, hotel and daily breakfast, starting at $1,395 a person.
 In Ireland, Sceptre Tours has a seven-day Emerald Luxury package for $659 a person, including rental car, down from $999 last year. Azores Express, which operates charter flights to the Azores from the United States, has packages from Boston to Madeira Island in Portugal starting at $849 a person for a six-night trip, including air and hotel with breakfast, down about $300 from last year. (Kids under 6 stay free and pay a discounted airfare.) And Contiki Holidays is offering $200 off its summer Europe trips of eight days or longer if booked by Oct. 29. 
 Spain or Portugal continue to offer great value. Petrabax, a 25-year-old tour operator, specializes in those regions and is the sole United States representative of Talonotel, a voucher-based hotel discount program that is well-known in Spain. With the vouchers, travelers can save up to 65 percent on thousands of hotels, mostly in Western Europe. Each Talonotel voucher offered through Petrabax.com is currently $90, and buys one night in a double room for one or two people including tax. Fancier hotels can require two or three vouchers per night. 
 The Hotel Melia Avenida de America in Madrid was listed for just one voucher or $90 on Nov. 29, according to Petrabax. That's a savings of almost 25 percent off the lowest rate (79 euros) found on the hotel's site. Bancotel.com, a similar voucher-based system, also offers hotel discounts. 
 France and Britain, which some United States tourists had written off as too expensive, are now scrambling to woo visitors back with savings. Liberty Travel, the travel agency chain based in Ramsey, N.J., said many hotels in popular French destinations are offering fourth nights free. They include the Palais de la Mediterranee in Nice, the Hotel Martinez in Cannes and the Waldorf Arc de Triomphe in Paris. 
 Meanwhile, VisitBritain has been running a Get More Britain for Your Buck campaign at www.getmorebritain.com since the summer. Deals, which extend through the fall, include rooms from $:59.90 a night at Jurys Inns, a budget hotel chain, and a third night free at the Chesterfield Mayfair Hotel, where a recent online search showed rooms from $:175 a night. 
 And don't forget Iceland, which is still recovering from a financial collapse last fall. Until recently, it was considered among the most expensive countries in Europe, but now at roughly 124 krona to the dollar (it was about 100 to the dollar a year ago), it's a pretty good deal for travelers who don't mind the cold. 
 ''This makes everything less expensive than people are accustomed to paying,'' said Einar Gustavsson, director, North America, at the Icelandic Tourist Board. ''It may never again be this economical to visit Iceland.'' 
 Icelandair, its national airline, seems to have an endless supply of low rates and incentives. It's currently offering a two-night Iceland Budget Getaway from $469 a person from Boston and New York, including lodging Nov. 1 to Dec. 31.
 But don't wait too long to book your trip. 
 While visitor numbers are still down, there are signs that travel to Europe is beginning to recover, as the economy picks up and airlines bring capacity more in line with demand. And as bargain hunters well know, once business returns, prices will rise and deals will dry up. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For those seeking fewer crowds, milder days and cheaper rates, options abound. Clockwise from top left The Almudena Cathedral in Madrid
crossing a canal in Amsterdam
Dublin Castle
and the city of Rome, seen from the Janiculum Hill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATIAS COSTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
HERMAN WOUTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRIS WARDE-JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIR FARES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESORTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); EURO (69%)

COMPANY: STE CONCORDE MANAGEMENT CO SAS (83%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); TRAVELZOO INC (50%)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); TZOO (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (83%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (83%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (50%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (50%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (93%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ITALY (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



307 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths GREENWALD, WILLIAM IRVING

 BODY:
GREENWALD--William Irving, 88, died October 9th surrounded by his loving wife and family. Born 1920 in Cumberland, MD, he lived most of his life in New York City. Graduate of Brooklyn College with a Ph.D. in economics from New York University, he went on to become full Professor at City College of New York where he taught for 59 years. He retired in 2004, age 82. In addition he is the author of countless books and articles on economics. He fully enjoyed world travel and the rich culture of his city. He considered his greatest accomplishment his 68 year marriage to his beloved Shirley E. Greenwald, who survives him. A devoted, loving father of four, Ted Greenwald, wife Joan McClusky and Alison Gold of New York City, Nancy Greenwald of High Falls, NY and Maggie Greenwald, husband David Mansfield of Maplewood, NJ. Adored grandchildren are: Thor Gold and wife Talia, Tosh and Anna Luerssen, Abigail Greenwald, Maisie and Lulu Mansfield-Greenwald. The funeral service is at 11am, Monday October 12, Redden Funeral Home, 325 West 14th Street, New York City. Burial, Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MARRIAGE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); WRITERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); CUMBERLAND, MD, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



308 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Penny Pincher

BYLINE: By MEGAN McARDLE. 
Megan McArdle is the business and economics editor of The Atlantic.

 BODY:
IN CHEAP WE TRUST
 The Story of a Misunderstood American Virtue
 By Lauren Weber
 310 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $24.99
 I have a confession: I love my huge television. A couple of years ago, thanks to a very large Amazon.com gift certificate and a very poor grasp of measurements, I adopted a 50-inch plasma. It utterly dominated my tiny living room until I finally moved, yet even then I loved it. The vivid colors and enormous crystal-clear picture were a worthy substitute for the cinema. Video games were even better -- and ''Blade Runner'' on Blu-ray was sublime. It ended up being a very costly purchase, what with shipping and the pricey stand required to hold its weight. But I have never regretted it.
 So I'm probably not the natural audience for Lauren Weber's new book, ''In Cheap We Trust.'' The book is a combination of personal memoir, social history and political manifesto for extreme frugality. Don't get me wrong: I like to save money. But I also like to spend it. Weber, on the other hand, is fervently . . . well, cheap. 
 Still, there's a lot to like about the book. Weber presents an engaging, if slightly overextended, history of America's complicated relationship with spending. Though one often hears calls for a ''return to thrift,'' our history of overexuberant consumption stretches back to colonial days, when the founders fretted that the colonists' attraction to imported luxuries would undermine democratic self-rule. Ben Franklin and Henry David Thoreau may have embodied the American virtues of economy and simplicity, but figures from Thomas Jefferson (who ran up huge bills on fine living and died in debt) to Michael Jackson embody equally well our tradition of wretched overindulgence.
 The best parts of Weber's book are her personal stories of living cheap. She recounts childhood winters spent doing homework near the oven as it cooled, because her father insisted on keeping the house at 50 degrees. She chronicles her inner monologue over a pair of $99 shoes, the vast distances she will go out of her way in order to avoid minor expenses. In one chapter, she goes Dumpster diving with ''freegans,'' who bring cheapness close to transcendence. Weber, clearly among kindred spirits, praises their resourcefulness and ''radical generosity.'' ''They are creating alternatives,'' she tells us, ''to a culture that thrives on store-bought pleasures and disposable dreams, and building worlds based on imagination and durability.''
 If it was ever possible to discuss personal thrift without elevating it to a public quarrel, those days are long gone. Weber sees a refusal to consume as the consummation of a progressive environmental agenda. She seems almost unaware that the right also claims thrift as a virtue. The popular evangelical finance guru Dave Ramsey has long told his followers to slash their lifestyles so they can become entirely debt-free, give 10 percent of their income to charity and save huge chunks of the rest. Weber could probably pick up a few tips from his Web site's forums, where people who spend more than $100 a month on groceries are righteously scolded.
 This idea of thrift as a moral virtue, rather than a prudent one, has some problems. Some Catholics see anorexia as a form of gluttony, because stuffing and starving yourself both elevate food to an inappropriate importance in your life. The freegans and many of Ramsey's followers are gorging themselves on parsimony. Overspending can, of course, be disastrous. But how healthy is it to agonize over every tiny purchase? Walking half an hour to save $1.50 on an A.T.M. fee means you put a ludicrously low value on your time. And if you have the means to heat the house, your children should not have to do their homework with fingers made clumsy by cold. While Weber says she still hasn't totally forgiven her father for that, by the end of the book she lauds him for reducing his carbon footprint. But this is no more reasonable as a way to lower your environmental impact than it is as a way to lower your gas bill.
 Nor can this obsessive refusal to spend be translated into any sort of a workable social system, as Weber sometimes seems to hope. The freegans survive only because they are few and American society is so joyously, wastefully rich. If we didn't throw away so much food, they'd have to get jobs. Weber celebrates the thrifty way that housewives used to turn animal fat into candles and old clothes into quilts. She doesn't really explore the obvious corollary: extreme frugality implies someone, probably a woman, staying home and spending all their time on it.
 Besides, these calls to trim consumption voluntarily rarely work outside of wartime. True, barring huge advances in energy technology, the current American lifestyle is unsustainable. But it doesn't really follow that we should therefore turn into a nation of Dumpster divers. Rather, it suggests that we've got the prices wrong. We should be taxing carbon, pesticide overuse and other excesses that push the costs of our consumption onto others. But once things are priced properly, there's nothing particularly admirable in refusing to spend money you can spare. If you're already financially secure and we've priced in the negative externalities of activities like driving and eating meat, then walking to work, lowering the thermostat and eating lower on the food chain isn't virtuous. It's just a lifestyle choice.
 In the end, someone like Dave Ramsey probably has more effect on American consumption than ascetics like Weber because he offers listeners more than just a lifetime of stinting. When Ramsey demands that you live on beans and rice, the idea is not to spend the rest of your life counting every penny. Rather, his followers budget and save now, so that in the future they can stop worrying about money. That's worth aspiring to, even for lovers of high-end televisions. But it's not cheap.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MELISSA JUN AND MARK HALL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (70%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: In Cheap We Trust (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



309 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: When Bond Ratings Get Stale

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THE utter failings of our nation's credit rating agencies -- you know the drill: repeatedly slapping triple-A ratings on piles of dubious mortgage securities -- were central to the financial crisis. And anything-goes ratings from Fitch, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's have left investors around the world with trillions in losses. 
 But while overly rosy ratings for complex mortgage-related securities are the focus of investors' ire, another significant problem bubbled to the surface in recent Congressional hearings when Scott McCleskey, head of compliance at Moody's from April 2006 to September 2008, outlined his employer's failure to effectively monitor ratings on thousands of municipal bonds held by individual and institutional investors. 
 As it turns out, according to Mr. McCleskey, once Moody's issues these ratings, it rarely reviews them again -- leaving them fallow, sometimes for decades. Would you want to own a security that hadn't been given a sniff test for 20 years? Did you know that if you were a municipal bond investor you might have one of those potential time bombs in your portfolio? 
 Mr. McCleskey outlined this sad state of affairs in a letter he sent in March to the Securities and Exchange Commission. It was published by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on Sept. 30, the day it held hearings on the rating agencies. Mr. McCleskey testified at the hearing.
 Municipal bonds are an important part of many investors' portfolios; two-thirds of the transactions in the $2.7 trillion market are by individual investors, either in their own accounts or in mutual funds.
 Yet, as Mr. McCleskey warned in his letter, ''While a few very high profile/frequent issuers (City of New York, etc.) were receiving some periodic reviews, the vast majority had received none -- in some cases there were bonds which had been outstanding for 10 or 20 years but which had never been looked at since the original rating.''
 And yet, he continued, Moody's contends that it monitored all securities ''in a robust fashion'' or at least flagged them as ''point in time'' ratings so investors knew they might not be up to date.
 Mr. McCleskey declined to elaborate when asked for an interview last week. But there is plenty in his letter alone. For example, he said that when he raised concerns at Moody's about a lack of meaningful surveillance of municipal securities, his comments were ignored. He was told, he wrote, ''not to mention the issue in any e-mails or any other written form.'' 
 How big a deal is this? Moody's rates more than 29,000 municipal securities issuers, according to its Web site. And with many governments in increasingly difficult financial straits, investors' reliance on stale ratings grows increasingly perilous. ''Investors may think they are holding investment grade bonds when in fact the issuer is teetering on the edge of bankruptcy,'' Mr. McCleskey wrote. 
 In April, a few weeks after he sent his letter to his former employer, Moody's warned investors that it was putting the entire United States local government sector on watch for possible downgrades. While this provided something of a wake-up call to investors who might have been unaware of the stresses in this arena, its blanket nature did not help much on specific issues.
 ''The performance of Moody's municipal ratings has been outstanding throughout the credit crisis, and our ratings continue to be well-positioned,'' said Anthony Mirenda, a Moody's spokesman. ''We believe that attempts to compare municipal ratings to those of subprime residential securities is ill-informed and makes an inflammatory assertion about a critical sector of the capital markets. We are extremely comfortable with our process for monitoring the ratings of municipal securities.''
 OTHER former Moody's employees agree that stale ratings are a menace to investors, whether you're talking about corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities or municipal bonds. 
 Ann Rutledge, a co-founder of R & R Consulting, a firm based in New York that helps investors gauge debt risks, is a former Moody's structured-finance executive. She has long advocated a need to rerate securities to keep investors aware of changing risks in a holding.
 ''The rating becomes a lagging indicator almost from the day it is issued,'' she said. ''A rating is a function of the time, the underlying risk and the extra capital put against the risk, all of which change. As long as you don't update it, the ratings are terribly misleading.''
 Ms. Rutledge said that one reason ratings agencies steered away from rerating was that they didn't want to be criticized as having caused a problem for a company with a downgrade. ''The philosophy was, we don't want to be seen as causing a bankruptcy,'' she recalled. 
 So ratings can become orphans, leaving investors in the dark about negative developments at an issuer -- or, for that matter, positive ones.
 Given the size of the municipal market, it is almost impossible to imagine how Moody's or any other ratings agency could track the fortunes of so many issuers. 
 Mr. McCleskey's letter said that after the credit crisis threw the spotlight on Moody's and the other agencies, the firm began to address the problem. ''However, this only consisted of designating a small team to review alerts generated by a computer algorithm,'' he wrote. 
 The increased complexity of municipal issuers' financing methods also makes it tough to analyze their bonds. In recent years, for example, municipalities have been persuaded by Wall Street to enhance their returns or reduce their interest-rate risks through the use of derivatives. Some of these derivatives have become black holes on issuers' books, and can be unwound only at a heavy cost. Keeping track of which issuers are using such derivatives, and the implications they hold for bondholders as interest rates rise and fall, would be a Herculean undertaking. 
 An initial and relatively easy step would be for agencies to disclose exactly when a ratings or rerating was given. 
 But Ms. Rutledge and others say that rerating securities is imperative to alert investors to the changing risks in their holdings. ''If ratings are not updated,'' Ms. Rutledge said, ''there is no way to measure the magnitude of destabilizing trends in the secondary market for these securities.'' 
 If the current financial fiasco hasn't taught us the value of such standards, then nothing will. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



310 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WARD, RALPH E.

 BODY:
WARD--Ralph E.,88, died peacefully at Greenwich Hospital on October 7, 2009 after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife of twenty-eight years, Elaine Simon Ward of Darien, CT, and Manhattan, and his five children, Sarah Ward Hogan of Mont Vernon, NH, Richard R. Ward of River Falls, WI, Thomas D. Ward of Sarasota, FL, John B. Ward, of Darien, CT and James R. Ward of Easton, CT. from his marriage to the late Eugenia E. McManigal as well as fifteen grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Born in Scotch Plains, NJ. 
PUB-DATE: February 26, 1921,

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); MARRIAGE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); ARMIES (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); AIR FORCES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LACROSSE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (67%); APPOINTMENTS (64%); CHEMICALS (61%); CHEMICALS MFG (61%); FOOD MFG (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (80%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (63%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (80%); JPM (LSE) (80%); 8634 (TSE) (80%); UNIA (AMS) (63%); UNA (BIT) (63%); UNA (AMS) (63%); UN (NYSE) (63%); ULVR (LSE) (63%); UL (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



311 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Lobbyists Fight Efforts to Save on Health Care

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the health care debate moves to the floor of Congress, most of the serious proposals to fulfill President Obama's original vow to curb costs have fallen victim to organized interests and parochial politics. 
 And now the last two initiatives with real bite that are still in contention -- a scaled-back ''Cadillac tax'' on high-cost health plans and a nonpartisan Medicare budget-cutting commission -- are under furious assault.
 Most economists' favorite idea for slowing the growth of health care spending was ending the income tax exemption for employer-paid health insurance to make lower-cost plans more attractive. But that would hurt workers with big benefit plans, and a labor-union lobbying blitz helped kill that idea by the Fourth of July. 
 Lobbying by doctors, hospitals and other health care providers, meanwhile, dimmed the prospects of various proposals to cut into their incomes, including allowing government negotiation of Medicare drug prices and creating a government insurer with the muscle to lower fee payments. 
 ''The lobbyists are winning,'' said Representative Jim Cooper, a conservative Tennessee Democrat who teaches health policy.
 Total health care costs in the last 20 years have doubled to about 16 percent of the economy, with no signs of tapering. Along with universal coverage, Mr. Obama has made controlling those costs a central pillar of his health care overhaul, calling the current course ''unsustainable.'' The effort is a pivotal test of his campaign promise to break the stranglehold of special interests. 
 In his weekly radio address on Saturday, Mr. Obama applauded the bill set for a vote next week in the Senate Finance Committee. ''By attacking waste and fraud within the system,'' he said, ''it will slow the growth in health care costs, without adding a dime to our deficits.''
 In an interview, Peter R. Orszag, the White House budget director and the official most associated with the drive to cut costs, singled out the proposed Medicare commission and the ''Cadillac tax'' as evidence of progress. ''A key priority now,'' Mr. Orszag said, ''is to make sure cost containment holds up as we move through the legislative process.''
 Neither element appears in any of the other four health care bills on Capitol Hill, and both face dug-in resistance in the House.
 Although the bills contain other measures aimed at medical costs, most of the surviving ones do not antagonize any organized interest. Among them are voluntary efficiency measures like encouraging the coordination of medical records, disseminating information comparing the effectiveness of treatments and various pilot projects. 
 White House officials argue that in any case it is prudent to start with such tests, and that many could be expanded to more comprehensive programs. But their real impact is hard to gauge, and the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office assigns them little weight. (The budget office credited the Finance Committee bill with reducing the federal deficit, but how much it will slow the growth of total public and private health spending is another question.)
 The tax on gold-plated insurance plans is the last vestige of most economists' favorite idea, eliminating the tax exemption for employer plans. The finance bill would impose a 40 percent excise tax on insurance plans that cost more than $8,000 a year for an individual or $21,000 for a family. 
 The bill has aroused the frantic opposition of labor and business lobbyists who appear to have found friends in the Capitol. On Wednesday, 157 House Democrats -- a majority of the party -- signed a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi opposing the tax. 
 ''It has no legs in the House,'' said Representative Pete Stark, the California Democrat who is chairman of the health subcommittee of the tax-writing panel. 
 The proposed Medicare commission, aimed at providers instead of consumers, is becoming a case study in the political difficulty of reducing medical payments. 
 The commission was intended to side-step the interest-group pressure that often stymies Congress. Modeled after the nonpartisan commission for military base closings, it would present a roster of Medicare cuts that Congress could block only with legislation.
 But along the way, the White House and the Senate Finance Committee have cut deals for political support with lobbyists that may circumscribe the cost cuts, potentially including the recommendations of the commission. 
 For example, the White House and the panel's chairman, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, reached an agreement with the drug industry for its companies to contribute a total of $80 billion -- but no more -- over 10 years in reductions to their government payments. 
 Many Democrats would like to see the government negotiate far lower prices for the Medicare drugs it buys. But drug industry lobbyists say -- and the debate on the finance bill appears to confirm -- that Mr. Baucus's agreement to limit the industry's costs excludes such price negotiations. Now the drug lobbyists are pushing to be sure the Medicare commission could not force negotiations either. The relevant text of the bill is still being written. 
 Some analysts contend that in other ways the drug industry deal could even encourage unnecessary spending on brand-name drugs. As part of its $80 billion, the industry would provide discounted drugs for certain Medicare patients who had previously been forced to pay for them until their bills reached a certain level. The deal will thus eliminate what had been an incentive to switch to cheaper generics. ''It is market protection,'' one drug company lobbyist said of the deal, speaking anonymously for fear of alienating the White House. 
 Senate finance staff members counter that their bill encourages the use of generic drugs in other ways by waiving the first co-payment for patients who try them.
 A parallel White House deal with hospital lobbyists is posing a more serious political problem for the Medicare commission. The White House and the Senate finance chairman agreed to limit the hospitals' payment reductions to $155 billion over 10 years, and in this case they added a guarantee to the hospitals that for that 10-year period the proposed Medicare commission would not extract any more. (The hospitals are also gaining new income from the expansion of insurance.) 
 A Senate Democratic aide said the hospitals had already agreed to significant cuts and noted that 10 years was not very long. (White House officials previously disputed the hospital lobbyists' account of the deal, but the Senate finance bill confirms it.)
 Now other heath care interests, led by the powerful American Medical Association, are complaining that it is unfair to protect hospitals from the commission, especially since they are the biggest recipient of Medicare money. 
 ''This presents a serious inequity,'' the group said in a letter to Mr. Baucus. The association and others also complain that the commission could cut only provider payments, without authority over benefits or premiums.
 Some Democratic lawmakers are upset, too. ''To work, it has to look at the full picture,'' Senator John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, one of the commission's principal sponsors, said in an e-mailed statement. ''There can be no carve-outs for specific provider groups.''
 Mr. Cooper, the Tennessee Democrat and another supporter, predicted the end of the commission. ''This will start a race for the exits,'' he said. ''Every other provider group will say, why are you letting these guys out? Why should we have to participate?''
 The House committee chairmen were already hostile to the commission as an unconstitutional intrusion on their budgetary powers. At a dinner with Democratic lawmakers at the Capitol Hill home of Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut a few months ago, Representative Henry A. Waxman, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, practically ''tackled Orszag'' in a dispute over the commission, one lawmaker present said. 
 Mr. Waxman confirmed a ''spirited'' disagreement. When he learned last week about the hospital exemption, ''it amazed me,'' he said. ''If they think Congress is too political to be involved in Medicare cuts, it seems rather political to have exempted the hospitals.''
 A spokesman for Ms. Pelosi said she also opposed the commission.
 How the measures fare in the final weeks of debate could determine how well the bill lives up to its original promise of curbing health care costs, said Dr. Mark B. McClellan, an administrator of Medicare and Medicaid in the Bush administration who is now tracking the legislation at the Brookings Institution. 
 ''It is still up in the air,'' Dr. McClellan said, adding, ''I'd give them an A for effort, but there is a lot more they could do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Labor leaders and insurance and health industry executives joined President Obama as he discussed cost-cutting efforts in May.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Peter R. Orszag, the White House budget director, says containing costs will be a priority as health care legislation advances.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (68%); INCOME TAX (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PETER ORSZAG (78%); JIM COOPER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



312 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; AFGHANISTAN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: In Limbo Oct. 4-10

 BODY:
THE NEWSPresident Obama considered a troop buildup in Afghanistan as his national security advisers moved to reframe the war strategy to focus on Al Qaeda in Pakistan.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The White House said the president was several weeks away from deciding on an increase of up to 40,000 troops urged by his top military general in Afghanistan. But the internal White House debate over threats to American security posed by the Taliban and Al Qaeda suggested that he might not increase troops significantly. 
 THE NEWS The Supreme Court began a new term last week that will be dominated by questions about government regulation of the economy.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The reach of the government's power over business matters will be argued at a time of extraordinary intervention in the economy. Key cases include one on the constitutionality of a regulatory board created in the wake of the Enron accounting scandal and another exploring the role of the courts in setting compensation for mutual fund advisers.
 THE NEWS The White House was considering extending key safety net programs and proposing tax incentives for businesses that begin hiring.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The deliberations took place against a backdrop of worsening joblessness. Unemployment inched up to 9.8 percent in September, a 26-year-high, and is expected to continue to rise well into next year. Options include extending unemployment and health benefits set to expire at the end of the year, and offering tax credits to employers for new hires.
 THE NEWS The Senate Finance Committee scheduled a key vote for Tuesday on legislation to revamp the nation's health care system.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The move came after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said the plan would cover 29 million uninsured Americans at a cost of $829 billion while also paring future deficits by slowing the growth of spending on medical care. Still, Republicans remain overwhelmingly opposed, and hospitals said the coverage was not good enough. A furious debate awaits.
 THE NEWS The son of the legendary New York socialite Brooke Astor was convicted of stealing from her as she suffered from Alzheimer's disease.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The verdict followed a 19-week trial and 12 days of deliberations. Mrs. Astor's son, Anthony D. Marshall, 85, faces from one to 25 years in prison. Among other things, jurors found that he had given himself an unauthorized raise of about $1 million for managing his mother's finances. She died two years ago at 105 with a fortune estimated at $180 million. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT NICKELSBERG/GETTY IMAGES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
EMILE WAMSTEKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TALIBAN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); JURY TRIALS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); ACCOUNTING (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); HEALTH CARE (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (61%); MUTUAL FUNDS (53%); SCANDALS (53%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



313 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: The Baucus Bill

 BODY:
The Senate Finance Committee may finally be ready to vote on its version of a health care reform bill. For months, its chairman, Max Baucus, and other members have struggled to produce legislation that could win significant Republican support. Fat chance. Only one Republican on the committee seems open to voting for the bill, and the entire Republican Congressional leadership seems determined -- for ideological and partisan reasons -- to torpedo the entire reform effort. 
 Still, all the months of wrangling have not gone for naught. The bill has farsighted elements that ought to be included in any final legislation -- and serious defects that ought to be remedied. It would do more to contain costs and restrain future deficits than any other bill under consideration, and it is far better than allowing costs to continue escalating on their current disastrous path. 
 Unfortunately, the bill would leave 17 million citizens and legal residents without insurance in 2019. That is better than allowing current trends to continue but nowhere near enough. 
 With so much attention focused on the Finance Committee, it has been easy to forget that there are actually five separate bills in Congress. Many commentators have treated the Senate Finance bill as the likely template for any final legislation because it may be more palatable to conservative Democrats, and deficit hawks, in both houses. 
 But the Finance Committee's bill should be viewed as the least that Congress should do -- a foundation upon which to build, not the final structure. 
 Here are some of the details to consider as the debate proceeds: 
 COMMON ELEMENTS All of the bills would require the vast majority of Americans to have health insurance or pay a penalty. Insurers would be prohibited from denying coverage or charging higher premiums for patients in poor health. The bills would create new insurance exchanges on which people who buy their own insurance or work for small companies could buy coverage at large group rates. The bills would also provide tax subsidies to help low- and middle-income Americans buy insurance, and expand Medicaid to cover more poor Americans. 
 These provisions would provide more security for all Americans. They would provide the greatest benefit to the millions who lack insurance or must buy it directly from insurers, often at very high prices. 
 COSTS AND DEFICITSPresident Obama and his budget director have insisted that health care reforms must be deficit neutral over the next decade and deficit-reducing over the longer term. Those are reasonable goals, and the Finance Committee seems to have met the president's specifications, and then some. 
 The bill received an important boost last week when the Congressional Budget Office estimated that it would cost $829 billion over the next 10 years -- well under the $900 billion President Obama had suggested -- and would reduce the deficit by $81 billion over that period. 
 Revenue from proposed new taxes and savings from slowing the growth of Medicare costs would more than make up for the cost of covering some 29 million uninsured people. 
 The deficit reduction would be even greater in the following decade because revenues and savings are projected to grow at an annual rate of 10 to 15 percent, while the cost of the subsidies and Medicaid expansions is projected to grow at a rate of only 8 percent. 
 Unfortunately, it appears that one of the key ways the committee keeps deficits down is by limiting subsidies and settling for far less than universal coverage. The House bills do better.
 We are far more impressed with its proposal to raise revenues and achieve savings almost entirely within the health care system -- by imposing fees on health care providers and by taxing high-priced policies that encourage overuse of medical services. Such revenues rise as fast or faster than medical inflation. 
 By contrast, the House bills would impose an income tax surcharge on the wealthiest Americans, and the Obama administration suggested curtailing tax deductions for the wealthy, two sources of revenue that grow more slowly than medical inflation. 
 We have recommended taxing the wealthy, who benefited enormously from the Bush-era tax cuts. But Congress might well consider adding taxes within the health care system, including taxes on the most expensive insurance plans.
 The Finance Committee's stellar performance in deficit reduction also relies in part on perpetuating a long-standing Congressional accounting gimmick: It boosts Medicare reimbursements to doctors for one year and then pretends that sharp reductions will occur over the next decade. (Every year Congress votes to up the payments.) The bills pending in the House would offer a permanent fix to the reimbursement problem, but at a cost exceeding $200 billion over the next decade. Sooner or later Congress ought to solve this problem, if not in the reform bills then in separate legislation fully paid for.
 COVERAGE The Senate Finance bill would still leave 17 million citizens and legal residents without coverage in 2019. By contrast, the pending House bills would leave only about nine million citizens and legal residents without health insurance. 
 If Congress can cover millions more of the uninsured by anteing up another $100 billion to $150 billion, it should find the money to do so.
 We continue to believe that covering the uninsured is a moral imperative -- and sound economics. 
 People without insurance tend to delay seeking medical care until their diseases, like diabetes and incipient cancer, become so severe that they require emergency attention and often cannot be treated effectively. The rest of us pay for their charitable care through taxes or higher premiums on private insurance. 
 Near-universal coverage is also needed to provide a large risk pool in which the premiums from healthy people on the exchanges can help subsidize the premiums of sick people. The Finance Committee softened its own bill to reduce and delay the penalties for noncompliance and exempted an estimated two million people from the mandate. While these people would not be penalized, they would also not be insured. A better solution would be to provide more generous subsidies so that people could afford coverage.
 OTHER WEAKNESSES The Finance Committee's bill also lacks a public plan to compete with private insurers, which would provide more choice to consumers, hold down prices and save the government money on subsidies. It also lacks a mandate on employers to offer coverage or pay a penalty, which would both expand coverage and yield additional money for the government. Both are proposed in all the other bills.
 MEDICAL REFORMS Critics of the current bills regularly complain that they do little to reform the delivery of health care by hospitals, doctors and other providers, the only lasting solution to slowing the relentless and rapid rise of medical spending. 
 That is largely true, and for a very good reason: Nobody really knows what reforms would work. All of the pending bills would spend money on various studies, demonstrations and pilot projects in the expectation that some might pan out. 
 One of the best features of the Senate Finance bill is that it would establish a new commission -- insulated from political lobbying -- to find ways to limit the growth in Medicare spending, and a new center to test innovative payment methods to improve quality and reduce costs in Medicare. That seems the most sensible approach given enormous uncertainties on how to rein in medical costs.
 We remain optimistic that -- with sustained attention -- Congress and the executive branch can find ways to reform the delivery of medical care. It may take time. But it would beinhumane to put off covering the uninsured until we have the savings in hand.
 Given that the reform effort will have to be at least deficit neutral for the next decade, there is time to experiment. 
 One must not forget that doing nothing -- the Republicans have yet to make any serious counterproposals -- virtually ensures that the cost of insurance and of medical care will continue to soar. That will place even more financial strain on policyholders and employers. And it will saddle the country, and all of us, with ever larger deficits. 
 This editorial is part of a continuing series by The Times that is providing a comprehensive examination of the policy challenges and politics behind the debate over health care reform. You can read all of these articles at: nytimes.com/edhealthcare2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INSURANCE (88%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%); TAX INCENTIVES (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



314 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Gilt-Edged Vacancy

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
EVERYONE has to sacrifice in these difficult economic times, even those fortunate enough to have the cash available to pick up distressed assets. And so, brokers say, Steven Mnuchin, a former executive vice president at Goldman Sachs, is giving up the comfort and lordly status of his five-bedroom duplex co-op at 740 Park Avenue, one of the most prestigious addresses in New York, for the suburban wilds of Pasadena, Calif.
 Mr. Mnuchin is a founder of Dune Capital, a hedge fund, and part of group that bought the remains of IndyMac Bank, based in Pasadena, after its collapse last year under the weight of a huge portfolio of risky mortgages, many given to buyers who were not required to fully document income or assets. IndyMac was the fourth largest failed bank when it was seized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
 Now Mr. Mnuchin, 46, has stepped in to become the chief executive of the holding company for the bank, which has been renamed OneWest Bank, and he has an office at the Pasadena headquarters. 
 In the last few days, Amanda Brainerd of Warburg Realty has begun quietly showing Mr. Mnuchin's Park Avenue co-op, which has 6,500 square feet, three maids' room, a library and a grand foyer. The place is on the eighth and ninth floors and, being in the A line, has the most desirable view, facing Park Avenue, brokers say. The asking price is $37.5 million, or $5,769 a square foot. If you need a mortgage, don't even think about it.
 The 1930 building, designed by Rosario Candela, on the corner of West 71st Street, has been home to some of America's wealthiest families, including the Vanderbilts and the Rockefellers, and the new crop of bankers and hedge fund billionaires. In 2006 John A. Thain, the last head of Merrill Lynch before its merger with Bank of America, paid $27.5 million for a duplex on the 17th and 18th floors. The apartment had been owned by Enid A. Haupt, the late philanthropist and a daughter of Moses L. Annenberg, the publishing magnate.
 Tamara Winn, a daughter of Ira Rennert, an investor in distressed assets, paid $32 million for a lower-floor A-line apartment, on the third and fourth floors, overlooking the treetops and the streams of taxis headed downtown. But that was in January 2008, near the top of the Manhattan luxury market. The seller was the estate of Janet Coleman, an heiress to a fortune created from the manufacture of safes.
 If Mr. Mnuchin sells the apartment on the open market, it will be its first sale outside the family since the 1960s, according to ''740 Park: The Story of the World's Richest Apartment Building'' by Michael Gross (Broadway Books, 2005). 
 It was purchased in the early 1960s by Emanuel Terner, a manufacturer of beer and soda bottles who sold out to what is now Kraft Foods and then created another bottle company. He sold the apartment to his daughter Carol Lederman and her husband, Mark, who in turn sold it in 2000 to Mr. Mnuchin, a nephew, for $10.5 million. 
 Mr. Mnuchin got his start at Goldman Sachs after graduating from Yale, following in the footsteps of his father, Robert Mnuchin, who retired as a managing partner in Goldman Sachs and went on to found an art gallery, L&M Arts. The younger Mr. Mnuchin left Goldman Sachs when he was 39 with a fortune reportedly worth $46 million.
 It is unclear how much such an apartment can fetch; the asking prices of luxury apartments are down sharply. But Richard Steinberg, a broker at Warburg Realty, says the mystique of 740 Park Avenue may transcend the uncertain market.
 ''It is a beautiful line, extremely grand and gracious,'' Mr. Steinberg said, ''and there are people who will pay anything to get into 740 Park.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 740 Park Avenue 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); FAMILY (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (75%); BANK FAILURES (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF THE OZARKS INC (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (57%)

TICKER: OZRK (NASDAQ) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



315 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: The Years of Magical Thinking

BYLINE: By PAUL M. BARRETT. 
Paul M. Barrett is an assistant managing editor of BusinessWeek.

 BODY:
PAST DUE
 The End of Easy Money and the Renewal of the American Economy
 By Peter S. Goodman
 336 pp. Times Books/Henry Holt & Company. $25
 The delightful motif that enlivens Peter S. Goodman's otherwise sobering new book on economic delusion suggests that we've been living in Neverland. The fairy dust of easy money -- heedless borrowing by homeowners and investment bankers alike -- has lost its magic, and now we have returned to harsh reality. 
 Goodman, a national economics correspondent for The New York Times, doesn't go so far as to match literary characters with real-life figures, but clearly the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan would be his Peter Pan: the fantastical flying boy who wouldn't grow up to confront the adult world, where his theory of pristine, self-correcting markets simply doesn't work the way he wishes it would. If Greenspan is Peter, then his band of Lost Boys who live with him in Neverland would include the current Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, and the chief White House economic adviser, Lawrence Summers. Unless our Lost Boys imitate their literary counterparts and return to the gravity-bound world, we could face further rounds of economic disaster. 
 Goodman, a fair-minded reporter and a clear writer, demonstrates how both Bernanke and Summers, along with most other major economists and Wall Street plutocrats of the past two decades, became entranced by the Greenspan-Chicago School notion that financial institutions can be trusted to police one another in the absence of rigorous government oversight. Summers opposed the regulation of credit derivatives during his years in the Clinton administration, helping to open the door to the reckless trading and lending that brought Wall Street to its knees. Bernanke failed to appreciate until way too late that the subprime housing bubble would not necessarily deflate on its own.
 Greenspan, in one of history's most galling now-you-tell-us moments, confessed last October that his magical thinking had turned out to be false. Thankfully, he's gone from the public stage. Bernanke and Summers remain in positions of tremendous influence, and they have failed, so far, to articulate specifically just how wrong Greenspan was, and how they intend to reshape the worlds of banking and financial regulation. The Obama administration's initiative to stiffen the spine of the Securities and Exchange Commission and curb derivatives speculation is apparently losing momentum. Goodman's book reminds us that this situation contains the seeds of future fiascoes.
 Drawing on his experience covering the technology industry as well as broader economic trends, Goodman performs a tremendous service by showing how the context of market manias changes but the essential content remains the same. The tech boom of the late 1990s gained dangerous momentum when financial seers reassured investors that traditional rules -- companies ought to make profits derived from real demand for their goods and services -- no longer applied. Crash! More recently the fallacy was that home prices would rise forever, defying the conventional relationship between supply and demand. That's why banks gave anyone a mortgage, and Wall Street bought those mortgages and turned them into an endless stream of bonds. But when real estate inevitably collapsed, the mortgages went sour, the bonds turned noxious, and, well, here we are.
 Some economic indicators are pointing in hopeful directions these days. But we could still see a painful reversal, especially when all those booby-trapped mortgages punish borrowers with interest-rate jumps over the next year. To date, lenders have deftly resisted pressure from Washington to revise the bulk of shaky home loans, heightening the risk of a worsened foreclosure crisis that could drag the larger economy back into recession before we ever reach a solid recovery. Wall Street, for its part, defiantly insists that derivatives trading should remain beyond the reach of the financial police. We desperately need the Lost Boys to wake up and deal with the truth. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An eviction in Atlanta, 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); WRITERS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); CREDIT REGULATION (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Past Due (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



316 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Tehran Plans To Execute 3 Protesters Of Election

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
Iranian officials have sentenced to death three protesters who participated in demonstrations following the nation's disputed presidential election in June, according to ISNA, Iran's semiofficial news agency.
 The news service quoted an unnamed spokesman for the Tehran prosecutor's office saying that the three were sentenced to be hanged and that they had been part of what Iran considered terrorist organizations.
 The death sentences are the first to be made public in cases involving the hundreds charged in the vast protests that followed the government's declaration of a landslide victory for the incumbent, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in the June 12 presidential election. 
 Reform-aligned Web sites reported last week that a prisoner named Mohammad-Reza Ali-Zamani had received a death sentence. The announcement on Saturday, which said a man with the initials M. Z. would be put to death, appears to confirm that sentence and report two others. 
 According to the report Saturday, two of the protesters were members of the Kingdom Assembly of Iran, a group that wants to restore the monarchy. 
 The third, identified as N. A., was said to be a member of People's Mujahedeen of Iran, an exile group that Iran says works to overthrow the government. 
 The news of death sentences sparked immediate condemnation from international human rights groups. In the weeks after the election, millions of Iranians marched in the streets of Tehran, charging that Mr. Ahmadinejad stole the race. At least 30 people were killed in a government crackdown that quelled the protests but failed to end the simmering discontent.
 ''Zamani's trial was a mockery of justice,'' the executive director of Amnesty International USA, Larry Cox, said in a statement. ''To impose the death sentence is beyond deplorable. Iran should immediately rescind this sentence.''
 The ISNA report, without giving details, said the court also sentenced 18 other protesters. That raised concerns about the hundreds of journalists, former government officials, academics and protesters still held in prison, many incommunicado, said the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, a group based in the United States. 
 There have been many charges of protesters' being tortured while in prison, and the government has agreed that some prisoners were abused, although it has continued to dispute accusations that some were raped and sodomized. 
 ''Iranian authorities have released little or no information about many of the approximately 400 persons who remain detained,'' the human rights campaign said in a statement, adding that Iran was ''violating international standards for due process and raising deep concerns about their health and safety.''
 Among those who remain in detention are Maziar Bahari, a filmmaker and reporter for Newsweek, and Shapur Kazemi, the brother-in-law of Mir Hussein Moussavi, who the opposition claims won the election. Mr. Kazemi, 62, is a respected telecommunications engineer and is known for his activities in technical and economic fields rather than for political activism. 
 Others who are still being held include the former vice president, Mohammad Ali Abtahi; Muhammad Atrianfar, a publisher and confidant of the former president Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani; Mostafa Tajzadeh, a deputy interior minister in the reformist government of the former president Mohammad Khatami; Saeed Leylaz, an economist and former government official; and the journalist Isa Saharkhiz, who according to Iranian news reports suffered broken ribs during interrogation.
 Student activists being held include Abdullah Momeni, a former spokesman for the student group Iran Alumni Association, who confessed in court. Mr. Momeni's wife says he had been badly tortured, according to Iranian news reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRISONS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (87%); COUPS (78%); TORTURE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (76%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DUE PROCESS (70%); WRITERS (61%)

PERSON: MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (59%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



317 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: As Republicans Predict a 2010 Surge, Democrats Dig In

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Some House Republicans are boasting about their chances of regaining control of the House in 2010 and relegating Democrats led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to minority status for the second half of President Obama's term.
 ''I have no doubt that we will,'' said Representative Tom Price, the Georgia Republican who leads the conservative Republican Study Committee. ''The American people want checks and balances, and the way to do that is to put Republicans back in charge.''
Publicly and privately, Republicans have been upbeat about the midterm outlook, saying voter unrest demonstrated at meetings this summer coupled with strong candidate recruitment have them highly optimistic about capturing 40 or more Democratic seats and resuming command of the House. They are talking confidently about knocking off such old bulls as Representatives David R. Obey of Wisconsin and Ike Skelton of Missouri, the chairmen of the Appropriations and Armed Services Committees. 
 ''In terms of candidate recruitment, fund-raising and issue development, we are far ahead of where we were at this point in 1993 -- and you remember what happened in 1994,'' Representative Pete Sessions, the Texan who heads the National Republican Congressional Committee, told the conservative Web site Human Events. Mr. Sessions, of course, was referring to the election that swept Republicans into the House majority after four decades in minority exile.
 With the election just over a year away, Democrats and Republicans acknowledge that the political environment has deteriorated for Democrats since the giddy early days of the Obama administration. All concede that Democratic losses in the House are highly likely. 
 But Democrats are not about to hand over the keys to the chamber.
 ''This is going to be a tough and competitive election,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''But anyone talking about a Republican takeover of the House is in la-la land.''
 Mr. Van Hollen and independent analysts say multiple factors bolster his contention that 2010 will not be a repeat of 1994. Perhaps foremost among them is that after two shifts in control in 12 years, Democrats will not be caught off-guard, as they were after 40 years in power.
 ''Our members are both battle-tested and on full alert,'' Mr. Van Hollen said. ''No one is going to be caught flat-footed this time around as they were in 1994.''
 Just to be sure, Democratic leaders are consulting with veteran members as well as newcomers to make certain all are preparing their campaign infrastructure for what promises to be a bumpy election cycle.
 At the moment, Democrats have not experienced a wave of retirements, sparing them from having to protect numerous open seats in competitive House districts -- typically the best opportunity for a takeover by the opposition.
 Democrats will be defending one seat in a conservative Louisiana district, but they have a strong chance to take over a Republican slot in that state. Decisions by Republicans to run for other offices have created Democratic opportunities in Delaware, Illinois and Pennsylvania, giving the party a chance to offset potential loses elsewhere.
 While Democratic fund-raising is down, the House committee has still outraised its Republican counterpart. Republican standing remains low in public opinion polls, and the party continues to struggle to resolve the gulf between its conservative wing, which is ascendant, and the remaining moderates. 
 Further, it is impossible to predict what the public mood will be a year from now or what the response will be if Democrats are able to pass a health care overhaul or the economy improves and unemployment decreases.
 ''There is reason for Republican optimism on what the year is going to look like, but I don't think there is reason for euphoria,'' said Stuart Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report. ''Forty seats is still a long haul. I think they are overexuberant on this right now. Waves take time to build.''
 But Mr. Rothenberg agrees with Republicans that the landscape has changed, with the Bush era that helped Democrats to two consecutive House sweeps now behind Republicans. 
 Republicans say they will be lifted by public unease over what some see as an expansionist Democratic approach coupled with tough House votes on issues like climate change and -- just days ago -- expanding the definition of hate crimes to cover sexual orientation.
 ''The political environment has shifted due largely to Democratic overreach, particularly on key economic issues and the ever-expanding role of the federal government,'' said Ken Spain, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
 Without a doubt, the two parties are settling in for an intense yearlong battle. So do not expect the partisan talk and tension that has defined Capitol Hill in recent weeks to dissipate. With a struggle for supremacy under way, neither side will easily surrender much political or policy ground. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawmakers at President Obama's health care address last month. Republicans are upbeat about the midterm elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); FUNDRAISING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (78%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); DAVE OBEY (58%); PETE SESSIONS (58%); TOM PRICE (58%); IKE SKELTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



318 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: The Conservative Gravitas of Glenn Beck

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The Conservative Gravitas of Glenn Beck
 Is conservatism brain-dead? Undergoing resuscitation is more like it, Steven F. Hayward, a conservative scholar, writes in The Washington Post, and Glenn Beck of the Fox News Channel may be doing some of the reviving:
 [His] distinctiveness and his potential contribution to conservatism can be summed up with one name: R.J. Pestritto. Pestritto is a young political scientist at Hillsdale College in Michigan whom Beck has had on his TV show several times, once for the entire hour discussing Woodrow Wilson and progressivism. He is among a handful of young conservative scholars, several of whom Beck has also featured, engaged in serious academic work critiquing the intellectual pedigree of modern liberalism. Their writing is often dense and difficult, but Beck not only reads it, he assigns it to his staff. ''Beck asks me questions about Hegel, based on what he's read in my books,'' Pestritto told me. Pestritto is the kind of guest Bill O'Reilly and Sean Hannity would never think of booking. 
 Okay, so Beck may lack Buckley's urbanity, and his show will never be confused with ''Firing Line.'' But he's on to something with his interest in serious analysis of liberalism's patrimony. The Left is enraged with Beck's scandal-mongering over Van Jones and Acorn, but they have no idea that he poses a much bigger threat than that. 
 The Church of T. Boone Pickens
 On Bloomberg.com, Kambiz Forooha covers a Las Vegas ''clean energy summit'' featuring an unlikely alliance of Al Gore environmentalists and T. Boone Pickens:
 It's a far cry from the wildcatter turned corporate raider and backer of fellow Republican oilman George W. Bush, who downplayed global warming as U.S. president. Now Pickens has ingratiated himself not only with environmentalists but with the Democrats who derided him. The reason: his Pickens Plan, which embraces natural gas and wind power and which proponents say would cut oil imports and curb air pollution in the process. 
 ''A year or so ago, I started taking missionary lessons from the group supporting T. Boone Pickens,'' Democrat Harry Reid told the 900-strong audience. 
 Reid, the U.S. Senate majority leader, had called Pickens his ''mortal enemy'' for funding Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. The group's attack ads helped sink the presidential bid of Massachusetts Senator John Kerry and hand Bush a second term from 2005 to 2009. 
 ''I now belong to the Pickens church,'' Reid said. ''He's been a good friend and a real visionary.'' ...
 After spending $60 million and taking a yearlong swing across America, Pickens has amassed enough support to persuade both Republicans and Democrats to propose legislation that gives incentives for natural gas vehicles and fueling stations. 
 Upside of Smoking Outside at Work
 Lest we go too far in banning outdoor smoking, consider how it promotes cross-departmental camaraderie at work, suggests Michael Skapinker of The Financial Times:
 Companies spend money on activities such as Outward Bound adventures and cookery classes, hoping to encourage bonding between different departments. Smokers already cross those boundaries. Look at any group congregating for a cigarette: you will see senior executives and security guards, marketing and I.T. support. Does smoking produce business benefits? ''There's no doubt in my mind that it inspires cross-departmental collaboration,'' one commercial manager (and smoker) told me. ''You get to know people who you otherwise wouldn't, and get a feel for what they do. If you've half a spark of creativity about you you'll doubtless stumble across an idea you hadn't thought of before. It also allows for the 'off the record' conversations between departments that grease the wheels of business. I'd be pretty lost without them.''
 Bring Back the 90-Minute Movie
 On the Esquire blog the Daily Endorsement, Ryan D'Agostino laments the demise of the hour-and-a-half film. Fittingly, he does so in a post of three pithy paragraphs, which are, perhaps also fittingly, further condensed here:
 Normally in life, getting more for your money is a good thing. But movies aren't Pringles, and 20 percent more free isn't necessarily what you want. Even 10 minutes of unnecessary screen time can cause a good, tight story to fray. ''I Love You, Man'' was funny at 104 minutes, but it would have been precisely as funny at 95. They could have cut out the entire China subplot from ''The Dark Knight,'' easily 20 of that movie's 152 convoluted minutes, with no effect on your enjoyment or comprehension of the film. And was it me, or did the fifth hour of ''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button'' start to drag?
 You've probably never walked out of a movie and said, ''It was about 20 minutes too short.'' ... The original Rambo is an economical 91 minutes. ''Annie Hall'' is 94. So is ''The Road Warrior.'' And ''Easy Rider,'' even with the long drug sequence. ''Fast Times at Ridgemont High'' needs only 92 minutes to convey the entire high school experience. Every frame matters. Some stories are better longer, of course. Even at three hours, ''The Godfather'' doesn't waste a millisecond. But lately too many directors are indulging themselves at the expense of your time. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Reading File column on Oct. 11 with an excerpt about T. Boone Pickens, from an article on Bloomberg.com, misspelled the surname of the author for that article. He is Kambiz Foroohar, not Forooha.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (93%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); WIND ENERGY (69%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (64%); IMPORT TRADE (62%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); AIR POLLUTION (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (94%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HARRY REID (75%); BILL O'REILLY (58%); AL GORE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



319 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (Discovery) DISCOVERING ARDI ''Ardipithecus is not a chimp,'' says Tim White, a paleontologist with the Human Evolution Research Center at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It's not a human. It's what we used to be.'' And what we used to be, right, was apparently a woodland creature with a small brain, long arms and short legs that could walk but also climb trees, using its long fingers and big toes to grasp like an ape. This two-hour program reports on the 4.4-million-year-old female partial skeleton -- now the oldest remains from the hominid branch of the primate family -- that was discovered in an Ethiopian desert 17 years ago and has opened a new chapter in human evolution. At 11, Paula Zahn hosts ''Understanding Ardi,'' an hourlong panel with members of the research team, including Mr. White, Yohannes Haile-Selassie, Giday WoldeGabriel and Owen Lovejoy, and Ann Gibbons, a science journalist.
 9 A.M. (CNN) STATE OF THE UNION WITH JOHN KING Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, speaks about the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to President Obama. 
 10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, a Democrat; Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a Republican; Steve Wynn, chairman of Wynn Resorts, the developer and operator of hotels and casinos; and Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, discuss the economy. 
 10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS The topic of the day is how to proceed in Afghanistan, with Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, weighing in. The discussion continues on ''Face the Nation,'' at 10:30 on CBS, with Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, and Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island; and on ''Meet the Press,'' at 10:30 on NBC, with Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.
 8 P.M. (HGTV) ENDLESS YARD SALE 2009 Three teams of shoppers have two days and $500 to pick their way along a five-state, 654-mile stretch of back roads and bargains. The goal: to find all the items they need to make over a room in their homes, with the winner bagging an extra $1,000. Steven Lee and Elyse Luray oversee the quest.
 8 P.M. (National Geographic) BIZARRE DINOSAURS More than 100 million years ago, the planet was inhabited by very small and similar creatures -- until land began to break apart, and its inhabitants developed peculiar characteristics like tiny arms and massive heads, long necks and tails, and giant crests. This program recreates that lost world and analyzes the impact of these beasts on earth's evolution. In ''Dinosaurs Decoded,'' at 9, the paleontologist Jack Horner challenges the long-held belief that young dinosaurs looked like miniature versions of their parents. Instead he suggests that the maturity process was so radical that up to one-third of dinosaur species might have been lost when their bones were misclassified. He also ponders the reasons behind dinosaurs' lumps, bumps and dome-shaped heads.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) INSPECTOR LEWIS, SERIES II: QUALITY OF MERCY When an actor is murdered during a student Shakespeare production in this ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' presentation, Detectives Lewis (Kevin Whately) and Hathaway (Laurence Fox) must sort through the alibis of a jealous thespian, an Oxford dropout and a playgoer overly enamored of his ticket stub to get at their suspect. But then a dark secret is revealed -- one that seems eerily relevant to Lewis.
 9 P.M. (History) JFK: 3 SHOTS THAT CHANGED AMERICA From Nicole Rittenmeyer and Seth Skundrick, the Emmy Award-winning producers of ''102 Minutes That Changed America,'' this two-part presentation pieces together archival materials -- home movies, Dallas police dispatches, televised interviews and news footage -- to create a chronological account of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy on Nov. 22, 1963, and its aftermath. (Lyndon B. Johnson being sworn in as president, above.) Part 2 will be shown on Monday at 9 p.m. The program is the centerpiece of History's ''Kennedy Declassified Week,'' which runs through Oct. 18.
 10 P.M. (AMC) MAD MEN Don (Jon Hamm) and Sal (Bryan Batt) both have difficulty satisfying their clients. Betty (January Jones) decides to host a fund-raiser.
 10:30 P.M. (E!) THE GIRLS NEXT DOOR In this Season 6 premiere Hugh Hefner, having bade farewell to his former girlfriends Holly Madison, Bridget Marquardt and Kendra Wilkinson, welcomes three new blondes to the Playboy mansion: Crystal Harris and the identical twins Kristina and Karissa Shannon. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EVOLUTION THEORY (90%); PRIMATES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); ANIMALS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); WYNN RESORTS LTD (54%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%)

TICKER: WYNN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: JACK REED (70%); JOHN MCCAIN (65%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (57%); MITCH DANIELS (53%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (52%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%); STEPHEN A WYNN (50%); MITCH MCCONNELL (50%); CARL LEVIN (50%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



320 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Facing Narrow Window to Sway James, the Cavaliers Sharpen Their Focus

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
The video scoreboard at Quicken Loans Arena, known to locals as the Q, delivers entertainment in loud, mischievous bursts. A dance number from ''Scrubs.'' A gust of huh-huh-huhs from ''Beavis and Butt-Head.'' An inspired rendition of ''Don't Stop Believin' '' -- as sung by the dad from ''Family Guy.''
 The spots are aimed at one of the N.B.A.'s most raucous crowds, and Cavaliers fans howl in delight. The volume at the preseason opener last week dipped only once -- when a modest-looking man in a shirt and tie filled the 28-foot screen. Then fans listened intently as Dan Gilbert, the energetic owner, urged voter support for a downtown casino that he hopes to build.
 ''Keep the jobs here in Cleveland,'' said Gilbert, sounding more like a mayoral candidate. ''Keep the tax money here in Cleveland.'' 
 Gambling and civic pride are urgent themes these days. 
 LeBron James, the greatest player in Cavaliers history, is rumbling toward free agency. His future could hinge on a Cavaliers championship -- the theory being that no one walks away from his own parade.
 So the franchise made the ultimate risk-reward play this summer. They traded for Shaquille O'Neal, banking that a 37-year-old almost-certain Hall of Famer will help James find titles and contentment. Preferably next June.
 ''I suppose if you were a poker player, it'd be the all-in moment, right?'' Gilbert said.
 It certainly looks that way. Consider the possible outcomes: James and O'Neal bond, the Cavaliers end the city's 45-year championship drought and, amid the delirium, everyone signs new contracts. Or they fail and James becomes a Knick next July. 
 There are other possibilities, but those are the two that will frame the Cavaliers' season, and their one-year experiment with O'Neal and James. The goals and consequences are left unspoken.
 ''Great players don't always need to talk about what needs to be done,'' O'Neal said last week. ''We know.''
 The partnership got off to a promising start last Tuesday at the Q in a preseason victory over Charlotte. O'Neal and James played 14 minutes together and provided more teases than results. But the potential was clear.
 On the first play of the night, James drove hard and dished to O'Neal, who was fouled on a layup attempt. In the second quarter, James elevated and zipped a cross-court pass to O'Neal, who might have torn down the rim had he not been fouled by Vladimir Radmanovic. 
 It took until late in the first half for fans to have their payoff. O'Neal spun away from his defender, leapt for a high lob from James and tossed in a bank shot.
 ''We definitely hope that will be the first of many,'' James said.
 James reached the finals in his fourth season and has been to the Eastern Conference finals twice. But he has been waiting for a worthy co-star since he was drafted in 2003.
 So the Cavaliers did not hesitate when the budget-slashing Phoenix Suns made O'Neal available. After failing to make a deal in February, Cleveland acquired him in June for Sasha Pavlovic and Ben Wallace, both of whom were bought out by the Suns.
 O'Neal has four title rings -- three earned with the Los Angeles Lakers, one with the Miami Heat -- but also a legacy of chafing with co-stars, most famously Kobe Bryant in Los Angeles and Penny Hardaway in Orlando. Even the laid-back Suns made veiled remarks indicating they were happy to see O'Neal leave. The Cavaliers professed no concerns with O'Neal's age or his ego, only how he would mesh with a team that had the N.B.A.'s best record last season.
 ''The deliberation was we had a 66-win team,'' General Manager Danny Ferry said. ''But every year you have to try to do something to get better.''
 Chemistry is rarely an issue with James, a basketball savant who can score whenever he wants to, but is just as likely to make a great pass. He averaged 28.4 points and 7.2 assists last season. It is up to James, who turns 25 in December, to make the partnership work.
 ''He's a team player,'' O'Neal said. ''We all know he dominates the ball a lot. But he also makes his teammates better.''
 O'Neal has taken three franchises to the finals, failing only with Phoenix. Although he is entering his twilight, he remains a force. O'Neal averaged 17.8 points and 8.4 rebounds last season, in just 30 minutes per game. He played in 75 games, his highest total in nine years, and appeared in his 15th All-Star Game.
 ''Every time we play against him, we talk about how we've got to guard him,'' Bobcats Coach Larry Brown said. 
 O'Neal is typically at his best when he has something to prove. He has heard the doubts about his conditioning, his longevity and his ability to play nicely. He reported to training camp looking fit and sounding eager to play a supporting role to James.
 ''I kind of right now feel like the old Kareem, when he had all those young studs around him,'' O'Neal said, referring to the Lakers legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who played until he was 41. 
 Gilbert offered another observation about why O'Neal would be at his best this season: ''I think Kobe winning the championship has put another kind of motivational factor behind him.''
 Cleveland has patched up its most glaring weaknesses since losing to the Magic in the conference finals. O'Neal provides muscle inside, where Dwight Howard punished them last spring. The Cavaliers signed swingmen Jamario Moon and Anthony Parker to shore up their perimeter defense and outside shooting.
 O'Neal will also provide cover for his teammates. He can lift the burden of being the No. 2 star from Mo Williams, who was miscast in the role last season. He can draw controversy away from James. He can bend the spotlight away from Delonte West, who is coping with personal issues.
 The question is whether O'Neal still has the stamina, the patience and the will to take a third franchise to the championship -- and keep James within city limits. As Gilbert considers the stakes, his sentiment again drifts toward civic concerns. He mentions the recession and its brutal effects on the region. 
 ''For these guys to pull this off and make this happen, you cannot underestimate for this region and this city what that's going to do for this town,'' Gilbert said. ''This is just something that they need right now. To me, it's the most motivating factor in the whole thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Cavaliers traded for Shaquille O'Neal (33) to help LeBron James (23) win a championship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (87%); BASKETBALL (75%); GAMING (73%); POKER (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (53%); MAYORS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (94%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (90%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



321 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; IN-BOX; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: A Losing Game For Obama

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
 Re ''Rio de Janeiro Picked to Hold 2016 Olympics,'' Oct. 3: In light of nearly double-digit unemployment, a rogue nation attempting nuclear armament and historic health legislation being considered, the president of the United States finds the time to lobby for a sports event to be held years from now. 
 It appears that political payback for his supporters in Chicago supersedes the interests of the nation. Thank goodness Rio de Janeiro was selected to host the 2016 Olympics, saving hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars from the black hole of Windy City politics.
 Humberto J. Brocato 
 Monument, Colo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); LOBBYING (87%); POLITICS (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (84%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



322 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: To Do More With Less, Governments Go Digital

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
IN government, as in business, crisis can fuel creativity. These days, the pressure to rethink things is particularly intense for state and local governments, which have far less leeway than Washington to borrow in bad times. 
 ''The economic pressures will force us to be more efficient and change how we deliver government services,'' says Sonny Perdue, the governor of Georgia.
 Mr. Perdue was one of more than 500 government officials, business executives and academics who attended a two-day conference in New York this month. Under the theme ''Smarter Cities,'' the meeting was sponsored by I.B.M. in partnership with the Brookings Institution, the City University of New York, the Urban Land Institute and other nonprofit groups. 
 That a giant technology company underwrote the gathering suggests that there is money to be made in helping governments tackle thorny problems in traffic management, energy use, public health, education and social services -- and that technology has an important role to play.
 Local governments, like many businesses, are struggling with a data glut. Agencies collect huge amounts of information about topics as diverse as building permits, potholes, Medicaid cases and foster-child placements. Technology, according to computer experts and government officials, can be a powerful tool to mine vast troves of government data for insights to streamline services and guide policy.
 ''The mistake people make is to think that collecting the data is the endgame,'' said Michael R. Bloomberg, the mayor of New York. The real payoff, he said, takes another step. ''We actually use the data,'' he noted.
 Indeed, New York has been a pioneer among cities in the use of computing firepower to sift through data to improve services. It began in the 1990s with the city's CompStat system for mapping, identifying and predicting crime. The system, combined with new policing practices, reduced crime rates in New York and was later adopted by Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Baltimore and other cities. 
 In 2002, the city began its ''311'' telephone number for answering questions about government services and to report problems down to missing manhole covers. The service receives 50,000 calls a day, and earlier this year began operating on the Web as well. Complaints, response times and resolved problems are tracked and measured to improve performance.
 In 2006, the city began an online service, NYC Business Express, to make it easier and faster to start a business. The average time to obtain a building permit, for example, has been cut to 7 days from 40. Such seemingly mundane improvements can add up to big gains in the efficiency of government service systems, experts say, nurturing productivity and growth in local economies. The process, they say, is similar to ''lean manufacturing,'' a system first mastered by Toyota in which step-by-step changes on the factory floor, made repeatedly, translate into major advances in quality and productivity. 
 Linking government databases can be crucial. The New York Fire Department, in partnership with I.B.M., is developing a system that combines information on building floor plans, inspections and code violations from city agencies and then uses software to analyze and make predictions. Firefighters will be able to call up building information on hand-held wireless computers on their way to a fire. The real-time system, scheduled to be deployed next year, should help guide firefighting tactics and help firefighters avoid some dangers.
 In Alameda County in California, the social services agency recently integrated information from several systems into a single data warehouse. Business intelligence software knits together the information on an individual -- typically from multiple social service programs -- and presents it as a single Web page to the caseworker assisting that person.
 The agency began using the system in July. It helps social workers, who handle more than 400 cases each, on average, to be more informed, save time and deal more effectively with individuals, said Donald Edwards, assistant director of the county agency. The agency estimates that it will save $11 million a year from eliminating duplicated work and by detecting fraud, he said.
 To do more with less, Mr. Edwards said, government services will be increasingly automated. ''This is about the modernization and mechanization of services,'' he said. 
 The future of using an expanded array of digital technologies to create smarter cities is just getting under way in a project in Dubuque, Iowa. Over the next several years, the city will use sensors, software and Internet computing to give its government and individual customers the digital tools to measure, monitor and alter the way they use water, electricity and transportation. Computerized electric meters, for example, can track energy use and reveal ways to reduce consumption and trim bills, often by 20 percent or more.
 The city is paying for the initial stages of the initiative with a bond offering. I.B.M. is investing as well, seeing its work in Dubuque as a manageable research project that can move quickly in a small city of 60,000 people. 
 ''For us, it's a living lab,'' said Robert Morris, head of services research at I.B.M. ''We want to learn things in Dubuque and then export the best practices.''
 ROY D. BUOL, the mayor, has export ambitions for Dubuque, too. A local company, for example, is making the computerized water meters for the project. And Mr. Buol views the initiative as a training ground for local people to develop technology and skills they can sell in other regions and, perhaps, other countries.
 ''We're not just a petri dish here,'' he said. 
 ''We want the smart-city work to be a replicable model for other cities.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Fire Department is highly wired, with an operations center in Brooklyn. I.B.M. is helping it to combine data on building floor plans, inspections and code violations.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FIRE DEPARTMENT OF NEW YORK PHOTO UNIT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); MEDICAID (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); CRIME RATES (67%); BUILDING PERMITS (66%); FOSTER CARE (66%); CALL CENTERS (66%); LEAN MFG (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

PERSON: SONNY PERDUE (71%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



323 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Another Fine Mess: Comics Whack Obama

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- Is President Obama in trouble with his late-night comedy base?
 It's likely he hasn't noticed or doesn't care. He is, after all, in the midst of his oft-invoked ''full plate'' of supposedly ''defining moments'' in his presidency -- a ''defining'' decision on Afghanistan, ''defining'' legislative battle on health care, among other ''defining'' things.
 But there is perhaps another more subtle set of ''defining'' episodes playing out for Mr. Obama in the televised comedy salons that had previously, by and large, been relatively gentle spaces for him. The bits about him are getting harsher. They are no longer just gentle gibes about Bo the dog, big ears, bad bowling and beer summits. 
 A conspicuous (if not ''defining'') episode occurred Oct. 3 on Saturday Night Live in a skit set in the Oval Office. The president (played by Fred Armisen) was defending his record against critics who had accused him of turning the United States ''into something that resembles the Soviet Union or Nazi Germany.'' Not so, protested the faux-Bama. 
 ''When you look at my record, it's very clear what I've done so far,'' he said. ''And that is nothing.'' 
 The sketch went on to show Mr. Obama/Armisen running through a checklist of things he had vowed to do -- closing Guantanamo Bay prison, overhauling health care. All were marked, Not Done. 
 ''Looking at this list I am seeing two big accomplishments,'' he said. ''Jack and Squat.'' And ouch.
 Mr. Obama has of course been a puzzle to comedians for some time. They agonized during the campaign about how his low-key and confident manner did not lend itself to edgy caricature. The challenge was made greater by the sensitivities inherent to lampooning a black candidate.
 And from the outset, Mr. Obama has been praised as someone who ''gets late night,'' whose ironic and self-deprecating humor is well-suited to the genre's sensibilities. He was the first sitting president to appear as a guest of Jay Leno's and David Letterman's. ''You ignore their influence at your peril,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House's deputy communications director. ''They are often leading indicators of where the narrative is headed.''
 But recent indicators could be proving ominous. There has been a proliferation of jokes that feed on -- or are fed by -- a resuscitated old narrative against the president that goes back to last year's campaign when both John McCain and Hillary Clinton tried to portray Mr. Obama as an All Talk/No Walk showboat. 
 Last Tuesday, Jon Stewart advanced the Saturday Night Live ''do nothing'' theme on ''The Daily Show.'' It began as a standard Stewart video-clip juxtaposition of Mr. Obama (and surrogates) promising to end the military's ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy. It continued with clips from the ensuing months of Defense Secretary Robert Gates and National Security Adviser Jim Jones saying they had not yet gotten around to reversing ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell,'' citing Mr. Obama's ''full plate'' of business. (''The president needs a metaphor czar,'' Mr. Stewart said.)
 What followed was Mr. Stewart, exasperated with a man he had supported, throwing his hands up and essentially imploring the president to, you know, do something.
 ''All that stuff you've been putting on your plate?'' Mr. Stewart said. ''It's [expletive] chow time, brother. That's how you get things off your plate.'' 
 After a roar of laughter and applause from the audience, Mr. Stewart reminded Mr. Obama that ''You are president of the United States.'' It sounded like something between a liberal call to action or cry for help. As Mr. Stewart grew more animated and the crowd grew louder, the routine took on the feel of a televised catharsis. 
 ''There have been some clear shots coming across the bow from the comic left,'' observed Ric Keller, a former Republican congressman from Florida who once wrote jokes for Jeb Bush, the former governor.
 Others have noted another creeping caricature of Mr. Obama as a ditherer. On Thursday, for instance, Mr. Leno joked that no one should expect the president's decision on sending more troops to Afghanistan anytime soon. ''Remember, it took five months to decide on a puppy,'' he said.
 Jeff Nussbaum, a Democratic speech and joke writer, disagrees that late-night comedy is a leading indicator of a cultural zeitgeist. ''To use an economic term, it is more of a lagging indicator,'' he said, something that responds to perceptions that are already entrenched. In practical terms, President Obama has now been in office almost nine months, Mr. Nussbaum said, and ''comedians now have a greater body of work to go after, for better or worse.''
 By and large, the bulk of late-night barbs directed at the president remain glancing at best. ''The jokes are still largely about things like how the media lionizes Obama, or what the opposition is saying about him,'' said Bob Lichter, of George Mason University's Center for Media and Public Affairs, who has been tracking themes in late-night humor since 1988.
 Mr. Lichter said it was too soon to tell whether the Saturday Night Live skit is a ''harbinger or outlier'' in how comics will treat Mr. Obama. At the very least, it provided a comic articulation of a potentially devastating message: ''The danger is that Mr. Obama is going to be defined by inaction and not living up to expectations,'' he said.
 Mr. Lichter posits Mr. Obama's Nobel Prize as a kind of test case for how people are perceiving him, and whether a caricature has taken hold of a man more celebrated than accomplished. ''It will be telling to see how the comedians treat this,'' he said. 
 As if trying to strike pre-emptively against inevitable ridiculers, Mr. Obama seemed eager to embrace the ''I haven't done anything yet'' conceit in his Rose Garden remarks Friday morning. ''Let me be clear,'' he said. ''I do not view it as a recognition of my own accomplishments.'' But it was also striking how so many people seemed to greet the Nobel news with shock followed by laughter, as if truth and caricature has achieved a newly seamless blend in the Obama imprint. 
 Really, the words rang distinctively comic: ''Did you hear that Barack Obama won the Nobel Peace Prize?'' It sounded like the set up to a joke -- one of those jokes where the set-up itself is the punch-line.
 ''That's pretty amazing, winning the Nobel Peace Prize,'' Jay Leno said, first out of the box Friday night. ''Ironically, his biggest accomplishment as president so far ... winning the Nobel Peace Prize.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last week about comedians getting tougher on President Obama misspelled the given name of one of the comics. He is Jon Stewart, not John.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JAY LENO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (72%); GERMANY (55%); CUBA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009



324 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: A Quest to Read a Book a Day for 365 Days, Just for Fun

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WESTPORT, Conn. 

 BODY:
 Last Oct. 28, on her 46th birthday, Nina Sankovitch read a novel, ''The Elegance of the Hedgehog,'' by Muriel Barbery. The next day she posted a review online deeming it ''beautiful, moving and occasionally very funny.''
 The next day she read ''The Emigrants,'' by W. G. Sebald, and the day after that, ''A Sun for the Dying,'' by Jean-Claude Izzo. On Thanksgiving she read Peter Ackroyd's biography of Isaac Newton; on Christmas, ''The Love Song of Monkey,'' by Michael S. A. Graziano; on July 4, ''Dreamers,'' by Knut Hamsun. When seen Friday, she was working on ''How to Paint a Dead Man,'' by Sarah Hall. She finished two more over the weekend when her family (husband; 27-year-old stepdaughter; four boys ages 16, 14, 11 and 8) traveled to Rochester for her in-laws' 60th wedding anniversary. 
 In a time-deprived world, where book reading is increasingly squeezed off the page, it is hard to know what's most striking about Ms. Sankovitch's quest, now on Day 350, to read a book every day for a year and review them on her blog, www.readallday.org.
 Helpful reminder that we have more time than we think, if we did not waste so much of it? Envy-inducing lesson in parenting? (The kids are all dedicated readers, too.) Meditation on the channeling of grief? (She was inspired, in part, by the need to make sense of her oldest sister's death.) Gentle celebration of the glories of books? 
 There's some of all of that in Ms. Sankovitch's Proustian year (so far minus the Proust) of reading avidly -- late at night, waiting to pick up her kids, at the United States Open.
 But perhaps what stands out most is that, at a time when reading books can feel like a pre-Internet anachronism, she did it mostly because, well, she wanted to.
 ''This is not someone trying to run an ultra-marathon,'' said her husband, Jack Menz, a lawyer, whose first thought about her plan was, ''How about a book a week?'' He added, ''It's someone getting to do what she really enjoys.''
 Ms. Sankovitch, a former environmental lawyer with piercing blue eyes who wears a locket containing an image of a man on a toilet reading a book, follows some rules. All the books are ones she has not read. She reads only one book per author. She reads one day and posts the review the next morning.
 But mostly she makes it up as she goes along. By necessity she mostly sticks to books 250 to 300 pages or fewer -- Thomas Pynchon's paranoid primer ''The Crying of Lot 49,'' for example, rather than the weightier, in all ways, ''Gravity's Rainbow.'' But on March 1, she made it through all 560 pages of ''Revelation,'' by C. J. Sansom, a murder mystery set in Tudor England.
 She's partial to high-intensity fiction, but also reads memoirs, mysteries, science fiction, graphic novels and general nonfiction, with niche interests including punk rock (''Please Kill Me,'' by Legs McNeil and Gillian McCain) and tennis (''A Terrible Splendor,'' by Marshall Jon Fisher).
 ''You can't go from 'Little Bee,' by Chris Cleave, which is about this young woman who witnesses torture and herself is a victim of abuse in Nigeria -- a really great book, but you're just crying or your stomach is clenched -- to another book like it the next day,'' she said. ''If I read a book like that every day, I would have collapsed a long time ago.''
 Ms. Sankovitch claims not to be a Type A maniac and does seem pretty normal. A non-reading indulgence, she says, is watching ''NCIS'' while folding laundry. Still, to make this work she's cut out a lot -- the garden, The New Yorker, wasting time online, ambitious cooking, clothes shopping, coffee with friends.
 There were a few close calls -- Christmas, for example, when she did not start reading until 10 p.m. She has household help for a day every other week, and it doesn't hurt that the family is comfortable economically or that the household, now in full Halloween mode, seems to have a suburban Glass family quality. Peter, her 16-year-old, is reading Pynchon; the 14-year-old, Michael, reads Ayn Rand and political screeds like those by Al Franken; and asked what kind of books he likes to read, George, the 11-year-old, replied, ''Long books.''
 Aside from the pleasure of it, Ms. Sankovitch had other goals -- inspiring a love of books in others and finding her way through a period of sorrow and soul-searching brought on by the death of her sister Anne-Marie in 2005.
 ''I've always thought great literature is all one needs to read to understand human psychology, emotions, even history,'' she said. ''For someone sitting around reading books, it's been a really lively year.''
 Ms. Sankovitch, who has a law degree from Harvard and reads fast but does not speed read, is no doubt smarter than the average bear. Yet she's convinced that reading a book a week is something most people can do.
 She said there's never been a day when the reading seemed a chore, but with less than three weeks to go, she's contemplating the experiment's end. ''I'll definitely read a book, but I won't read a whole book,'' she said, thinking of her birthday. ''Or maybe I'll sit around all day watching 'NCIS.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: What is by now a familiar sight: Nina Sankovitch reading at her home in Westport, Conn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); CHRISTMAS (75%); MARATHONS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); THANKSGIVING (71%); PARENTING (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



325 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: A Reporter With a 'Tom Sawyer Business Plan' Buys a Newspaper

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: SANTA ROSA, N.M. 

 BODY:
Between pleading with an advertiser, fending off a complaining reader and taking a break to watch a scorpion scuttle down the sidewalk, M. E. Sprengelmeyer gives a visitor to his office this advice: ''Watch out for the hole in the floor.''
 He isn't joking. Eight months ago, Mr. Sprengelmeyer, 42, worked as the sole Washington correspondent for The Rocky Mountain News, the Denver newspaper that went out of business in February, but his job these days is a far cry from the Senate press gallery. 
 In August, he embarked on a new life in this isolated little town as owner, publisher, editor, primary writer and sometime ad salesman, photographer and deliverer of the weekly Guadalupe County Communicator, circulation about 2,000.
 ''I covered the war in Iraq and the presidential campaign, and I knew I was never going to top that, even if I found another reporting job,'' he said, sitting on a battered chair in his single-story storefront space. ''I just wanted a completely new direction.''
 Of the thousands of paths taken by journalists who have been cast off by shrinking metropolitan newspapers, Mr. Sprengelmeyer's is one of the more unusual, and one of the more hopeful. While bringing some big-city professionalism to a distinctly small-time operation, he says he is making enough money to support himself, and he has been able to assign some freelance work to a few underemployed former colleagues.
 At least half a dozen veterans of The Rocky and other papers have contributed to The Communicator in the last two months -- most paid, a few pro bono -- and more are in the pipeline. Two have become regulars: Mark Holm, a photographer and former photo editor at The Rocky and several other papers, and Drew Litton, a former Rocky cartoonist.
 ''It's the Tom Sawyer business plan: I'm trying to convince all my friends how much fun it would be to help me,'' said Mr. Sprengelmeyer.
 Santa Rosa lies a two-hour drive east of Albuquerque, on a vast plain of prairie grass speckled with juniper and mesquite, where the old Route 66 and Interstate 40 cross the Pecos River. Mr. Sprengelmeyer gave up Washington for a town of 2,600 people, most of them Hispanic, with a per capita income about half the national average, where the biggest political dispute is what to do with a giant water slide the local council bought from an amusement park.
 But Michael Sprengelmeyer (he became ''M. E.'' two decades ago, when it turned out his full byline would not fit in a column width) plays his own tune. A vegetarian teetotaler who tries not to wear leather -- he favors old-fashioned canvas basketball shoes -- he also fights his weight and smokes. He likes to sketch his paper's page designs on paper plates. The two suits he owns, but never wears, used to belong to the lobbyist Jack Abramoff, now jailed, and are the subject of a lawsuit between the power broker and his tailor (a baroque tale Mr. Sprengelmeyer once told in The Rocky's pages). 
 His new career turn was not a desperation move caused by the closing of The Rocky. He has thought about it for a while. For a couple of years, he scouted small-town papers that were for sale, including some in Iowa that he visited while covering the presidential caucuses there. After The Rocky's demise, Mr. Sprengelmeyer, who grew up mostly in Albuquerque, turned his sights on New Mexico.
 He would not disclose what he paid for The Communicator, but in a city where the median home price is about $100,000, he is a renter because ''I could either buy a newspaper here or buy a house here, but not both.''
 The paper came with a staff of just three part-timers and a single, more or less full-time reporter, Davy Delgado, who has an encyclopedic knowledge of Santa Rosa. Mr. Delgado, 54, does not own a phone, home or mobile, and since having a stroke two years ago, he cannot drive extensively.
 Santa Rosa actually has two weeklies, The Communicator and the smaller Santa Rosa News. In recent years, each paper was aligned with one of two rival groups in City Hall; one of The Communicator's former owners, Jesus Roybal, is the town administrator.
 Mr. Sprengelmeyer has criticized both factions, increased the amount of serious news in the paper, and markedly improved its writing and appearance. Michael Gallegos, a clothes store manager who also does The Communicator's page layouts, said he learned as much in a crash course of a few days with two former Rocky editors as he had in two years on the job.
 People around town say they have noticed the difference. The greatest compliment may have been paid by Roberto Martin Marquez, editor of the Santa Rosa News, who wrote in his paper that ''M. E. is making me a better newspaper man.''
 Sales of The Communicator are up, in part because of eight sidewalk boxes that Mr. Sprengelmeyer bought from The Rocky and posted around Santa Rosa. He will not say how much money the paper makes, but says it is more than enough to support him, and he has visions of expanding to two days a week.
 ''If a house burns down, everybody here knows it, saw it, knew the people, probably hugged them, but they still want to read about it in a paper that comes out four days later,'' he said.
 The experience has made him an evangelist for small-town papers, which he says offer a hidden opportunity for unemployed journalists, but he acknowledges it isn't for everybody. He works to the brink of exhaustion, fueling late-night production sessions with nicotine and caffeinated energy drinks. After a few hours' sleep, he makes a three-hour, round-trip drive to pick up his press run in Clovis, where the paper is printed.
 ''I couldn't do this if I had a family,'' he said. ''But it feels like it matters, and I'm having fun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: M. E. Sprengelmeyer, formerly of the Rocky Mountain News, now owns the weekly Guadalupe County Communicator, circulation around 2,000. Mr. Sprengelmeyer writes and edits, and sometimes takes pictures, delivers the paper and sells ads. Far left, with his page designer, Michael Gallegos, on production night. Left, Mr. Sprengelmeyer shows his sister Amy possible Page One layouts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WRITERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); PUBLISHING (71%); IRAQ WAR (68%); WATER PARKS (64%); BASKETBALL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



326 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: For Long-Term Unemployed, Payments Near End

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Tens of thousands of New Yorkers have had the unfortunate distinction of collecting unemployment benefits longer than anyone in the state's history. But last week, state officials began warning the long-term unemployed that Congress has not approved another extension of unemployment insurance payments.
 That lapse will leave about 37,000 residents of the state, like Robert C. Brannigan, without benefits this week, and will force others to contemplate applying for food stamps or other forms of welfare that they had never considered. 
 Mr. Brannigan, a 26-year-old construction worker from Mastic, received his final weekly payment of $430 last week, but he still is No. 20 on a waiting list for jobs assigned by his union in Manhattan. When he checked the State Labor Department's Facebook page for news about a pending extension, he found a video explaining how to apply for food stamps and other assistance from the state.
 ''That was weird to me,'' Mr. Brannigan said. ''I don't want food stamps. I want what I paid for and what I will continue to pay for when I go back to work. Unemployment is unemployment. It's not welfare.''
 But unemployment insurance was created as a stopgap, a short bridge to the next paycheck. In New York, it already has been stretched out for a longer period -- 79 weeks -- than in any previous recession, according to state labor officials.
 Senate Democrats in Washington agreed on Thursday to extend payments for an additional 20 weeks in states with high unemployment rates, including New York, whose rate rose to 9 percent in August. If enacted, the extension would make it possible for some New Yorkers to collect for 99 weeks, or nearly four times as long as basic unemployment benefits are supposed to last.
 The Democrats' proposal is a compromise intended to appease senators from states with relatively low unemployment. It would make extended benefits available for 14 weeks in every state, plus an additional six weeks in states whose unemployment rates, averaged over three months, exceeded 8.5 percent.
 But Senate Republicans prevented a quick approval of the proposal last week. The measure, which is expected to be brought to the floor for a vote, would be effective immediately upon its enactment. But that will not be in time to prevent a gap in payments to the long-term unemployed in New York -- even though they would be eligible to resume receiving benefits. 
 The National Employment Law Project, an advocacy group for the unemployed, estimates that 400,000 Americans have already exhausted their benefits during this recession and that an additional 900,000 would by the end of the year. 
 But not all of those at or near the end of their benefits would get a reprieve from another extension. Some unemployed New Yorkers, like Karin Gehm Barrett, are not eligible for extended benefits because they did not lose their jobs soon enough.
 Ms. Barrett, who lives with her husband in Bayside, Queens, said she lost her job as a human resources manager at an advertising firm in Manhattan more than a year ago. The last of her benefits are scheduled to run out in January, but because she was on disability for several weeks after being laid off, she did not begin collecting unemployment until November 2008. Extended benefits have been available only to those who started collecting regular benefits before Oct. 27, 2008.
 Ms. Barrett, 47, said she was already concerned about exhausting her benefits in a few months. In three previous bouts of unemployment, she was able to land a new job within three or four months, she said. But this time, the closest she came was being hired as a part-time consultant by her previous employer, she said.
 ''If in nine months I haven't been successful, it's a little daunting that in the next to two to three months I will have success,'' Ms. Barrett said. ''It really is tough out there. I put on my calendar at least two to three hours a day to dedicate to my job search. There's not enough out there to devote that much more time.''
 Still, Ms. Barrett, whose husband has a union job as a phone technician, is much better off than some New Yorkers whose benefits are running out.
 Ruby Sievers, 47, a construction laborer who lives in Binghamton, said she had not been able to find work for two years. She collected the last of her extended benefits of $430 a week on Wednesday and feared that she might again have to resort to temporary assistance from the state to pay her rent and feed herself and her 11-year-old son, she said.
 Ms. Sievers said she received welfare benefits this year during a lapse in unemployment benefits in New York. She has been impatiently awaiting word that Congress will pass the extension to limit the gap in her income.
 ''If it doesn't, I'm not going to be in real good shape,'' Ms. Sievers said. ''I couldn't even get $7 an hour if I wanted to. It's just not there.''
 Like Ms. Sievers, Mr. Brannigan said he had applied in vain for a variety of jobs at stores and companies near his home.
 ''I've been to every store at the Tanger outlet mall,'' he said. ''I've been to every deli around here.''
 Foremost, he hopes to be called in to work by his union, Local 20 of the Cement and Concrete Workers. His best bet, he said, is a job as a flag waver on a job site, but he is 20th on the waiting list for one of those spots.
 ''If they call me in for anything, I don't care what it is, I'll run right there,'' Mr. Brannigan said. ''If they tell me I got to stand on a pole and juggle, I'll do that. I want to work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Karin Gehm Barrett, of Bayside, Queens, lost her job more than a year ago, and her benefits are scheduled to run out in January.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); FOOD STAMPS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HISTORY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



327 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Whitney Advances Plans for Museum Near the High Line

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Three years after reaching a tentative agreement with the city, the Whitney Museum of American Art is forging ahead with plans to build a second museum at the entrance to the High Line, the abandoned elevated railway line that has recently been transformed into a public park. 
 The museum signed a contract last month with the New York City Economic Development Corporation to buy the city-owned site at Washington and Gansevoort Streets, in the meatpacking district, for $18 million. That is about half the appraised value of the property, a sign of the city's interest in drawing visitors to the area. 
 According to the final agreement, the Whitney has up to four years to close on the purchase of the land and five years to begin construction of the building, designed by Renzo Piano. The museum will make nonrefundable monthly payments of $50,000 to the city until the closing date, which has not been determined. These payments will be credited toward the purchase price. (The balance is due at the closing.) 
 The signed contract comes three years after the Dia Art Foundation scrapped its plans to open a museum next to the High Line entrance. That's when the Whitney stepped in and reached a conditional agreement to take over the space. 
 Since then the economy has taken a toll. In the spring the Whitney laid off eight employees, or 4 percent of its work force, and froze the salaries of senior staff members. In addition, the operating budget was reduced by about 10 percent. 
 Adam D. Weinberg, the Whitney's director, said the money for the project would come from capital funds, not the operating budget. ''The two are separate,'' he explained. 
 For decades the Whitney had tried to expand its landmark home -- the 1966 Marcel Breuer building on Madison Avenue and 75th Street -- but because of cost considerations the museum abandoned those plans and focused on a satellite downtown. 
 A second museum is critical to the future of the institution, Mr. Weinberg said, adding: ''This is the only way we can continue to justify building a collection. We simply don't have enough space to show our holdings. And since at least 60 percent of the art we acquire comes through gifts, it becomes more difficult to ask people to donate works if we cannot show them.''
 Most of the Breuer space is devoted to special exhibitions, Mr. Weinberg said, with only about a quarter of the building left to display art from the permanent collection, one of the foremost holdings of 20th-century American art. ''I'd like it to be 50-50,'' he said. ''You hear people say they are going to the Whitney to see a show, but you rarely hear someone say they are going to the Whitney to see our collection.'' 
 The Breuer building is also a difficult space to maneuver. When the giant biennial closes, for instance, it takes three weeks to get the art out and install another show. ''That's just bad business,'' Mr. Weinberg said. 
 But in this economy, paying for the High Line site will be a challenge. In May the museum announced a fund-raising campaign of $680 million: $435 million for the new building and about $245 million for the endowment. While Mr. Weinberg would not say how much had been raised so far, other than ''a very substantial amount,'' he did say that ''giving slowed last year, but since the summer things have picked up.''
 In addition to raising money from individuals and corporations, the Whitney plans to sell five town houses next to the Breuer building when the real estate market improves. The proceeds will be earmarked for the downtown site. 
 The project would give the Whitney a six-floor museum more than twice the size of its Madison Avenue home. The satellite would include more than 50,000 square feet of galleries and about 15,000 square feet of outdoor exhibition space. 
 The Whitney will also have right of first offer on another city-owned property, north of the downtown site, which is occupied by the Gansevoort Meat Market Cooperative. If the co-op decides not to renew its lease, which expires in 2014, the Whitney could entertain the possibility of expanding once again. 
 ''It's bigger than our existing site,'' Mr. Weinberg said, comparing the co-op's space to that of the Whitney project. ''And we would probably co-develop it with another institution.'' 
 For the city, the addition of a Whitney downtown is another magnet to draw people to an area it has worked hard to develop. ''We think this is a great anchor to this cultural district,'' said Seth Pinsky, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. ''It will provide a gateway to the High Line. The two are complementary.'' 
 A question remains, however, about how the Whitney can run two sites at once. Last year when Leonard A. Lauder, the museum's chairman emeritus, gave $131 million through his foundation, he stipulated that the Whitney could not sell its Breuer building for an extended, but unspecified, period of time. 
 Mr. Weinberg said that the museum was studying options to see how to make the two sites work programmatically and financially. Teaming up with another institution is one idea. ''We're exploring all sorts of possibilities,'' Mr. Weinberg said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Next to the High Line entrance on Gansevoort Street: An artist's rendering of the new museum planned by the Whitney.(DRAWING BY RENZO PIANO BUILDING WORKSHOP AND COOPER, ROBERTSON & PARTNERS)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BUDGETS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUDGET CUTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



328 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Up to Her Neck in Pink Ribbons and Smiley Faces

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
BRIGHT-SIDED 
 How the Relentless Promotion of Positive Thinking Has Undermined America 
 By Barbara Ehrenreich 
 235 pages. Metropolitan Books. $23. 
 When Barbara Ehrenreich became a breast cancer patient, she found herself infuriated by the disease's upbeat, infantilizing culture of pink ribbons and teddy bears. When she found that there were patients' message boards that extolled breast cancer as a blessing, she signed on and expressed her indignation. Along came ''a chorus of rebukes'' from other patients, one of whom condescendingly addressed her as Barb. The word ''barb'' can be associated with Ms. Ehrenreich, but it works better to describe her favorite kind of rhetorical weapon than as a nickname. 
 Flinging the vituperative barb is a specialty for this writer, whose book titles include ''The Snarling Citizen,'' ''The Mean Season'' and ''The Worst Years of Our Lives'' (as well as the snappier, better-known ''Bait and Switch'' and ''Nickel and Dimed''). She thrives on righteous indignation, and she may seem to have found the perfect target with ''Bright-Sided.'' Here is her chance to make a frontal assault on the institutionalized American version of good cheer and to wipe that dopey smile off the happy-face symbol that pervades American culture. 
 ''Bright-Sided'' does have a point to make. And it's a point so simple that it can be aptly summarized by the book's subtitle, ''How the Relentless Promotion of Positive Thinking Has Undermined America.'' Ms. Ehrenreich thinks the prevalence of bogus optimism has weakened America, and she is willing to shoot fish in barrels to make that case. There is no shortage of megachurch preachers, self-help gurus, business coaches and positive-thinking academics whose idiocy and avarice can be exposed by Ms. Ehrenreich's high beams.
 Her argument has the makings of a tight, incisive essay. And each chapter eventually delivers a succinct reiteration of the central point. But this short book is also padded with cheap shots, easy examples, research recycled from her earlier books and caustic reportorial stalking. Ms. Ehrenreich starts out with her ideas firmly in place, then goes out hunting for crass, benighted individuals whose perniciousness helps her accentuate the negative.
 There's no arguing with Ms. Ehrenreich's sense that false optimism is a form of stupidity. Nor is there reason to dispute her idea that such false optimism can be profitably exploited. But it's a little late for her to tell her readers about the decade-old mouse parable ''Who Moved My Cheese?,'' let alone explain that corporations use that book to convince the downsized employee that losing a job is a backhanded form of good fortune. The good-cheer baloney business has long since gone on to embrace the great news that this recession can be a blessing.
 ''Bright-Sided'' begins with Ms. Ehrenreich's highly humanizing chapter about her illness and with her legitimate scorn for ''the ultrafeminine theme of the breast cancer marketplace.'' (''Certainly men diagnosed with prostate cancer do not receive gifts of Matchbox cars.'') After that it takes a downhill trajectory. The next chapter concerns the cultural validation of ''magical thinking,'' as in the book ''The Secret,'' which makes another barn-sized target. What is the real meaning of that book's assertion that we can attract whatever we want by wishing for it? ''Bright-Sided'' rightly says that the meaning is twofold: that we are encouraged to override the wishes of anyone else, and that we become failures when the process doesn't pay off. 
 But as part of her skewering of magical thinking, Ms. Ehrenreich digs up one motivational speaker who advises increasing business by rereading one's mailing list and ''loving each name,'' and another who boastfully proclaims ''my life is what I would consider the definition of success.'' She is simply too smart for this bottom-feeding, just as she is too smart to be citing the number of Google searches for ''positive thinking'' or to be quoting something fatuous said by Larry King. Her valuable insight about the solipsism of magical thinking and about the loneliness of a world that will grant any wish is obscured by the caliber of the evidence that supports it.
 This book's chapter on the historical roots of the optimism business and on the stern Calvinist values that are at the heart of it (since the self that can be improved must be inherently flawed) is sturdy. But it gives way to a smorgasbord of sneering illustrations. The canned optimism of the megachurch minister Joel Osteen actually involves asking God for help in getting seated in a crowded restaurant (''Father, I thank you that I have favor with this hostess, and she's going to seat me soon''), and Ms. Ehrenreich rightly wonders what this has to do with Christian values. But her own values make it easier for her to infiltrate and ridicule an Osteen sermon than to ask parishioners about their responses to such gibberish. She would rather speak for the victims of trumped-up optimism than speak to them.
 In its search for egregious silliness, ''Bright-Sided'' also unearths an academic (who has been written about by Ms. Ehrenreich before and thus goes to great lengths to dodge her), Martin E. P. Seligman, a former president of the American Psychological Association, whose book ''Authentic Happiness'' is tailor-made for her purposes. She finds Mr. Seligman's ideas of cultural uplift to be laughable; he plays into her hands by suggesting that they go to an art museum and look at the Monets. Ms. Ehrenreich describes trying to take notes with a pen, being told she can't use one in the museum and thinking privately that she dislikes Monets for their ''middle-class notions of coziness,'' but doesn't ''hate them enough to stab them with my felt-tip pen.''
 All in all, this encounter offers more caustic humor than enlightenment. And it paves the way for saying that positive psychology has become a moneymaking enterprise, which is hardly a startling observation in the midst of this book's parade of saccharine hucksters. The more important point, which is also here but coarsened by too much distraction, is that it is dangerous to lose sight of unpleasant realities and that we have ignored too many real-world danger signals in recent years. That's as obvious on this book's last page as it was on the first.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANA RAAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BREAST CANCER (78%); WRITERS (73%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (67%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (62%); DISMISSALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Bright-Sided (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



329 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: U.S. CAN'T TRACE FOREIGN VISITORS ON EXPIRED VISAS

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. and JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: DALLAS 

 BODY:
Eight years after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and despite repeated mandates from Congress, the United States still has no reliable system for verifying that foreign visitors have left the country.
 New concern was focused on that security loophole last week, when Hosam Maher Husein Smadi, a 19-year-old Jordanian who had overstayed his tourist visa, was accused in court of plotting to blow up a Dallas skyscraper.
 Last year alone, 2.9 million foreign visitors on temporary visas like Mr. Smadi's checked in to the country but never officially checked out, immigration officials said. While officials say they have no way to confirm it, they suspect that several hundred thousand of them overstayed their visas.
 Over all, the officials said, about 40 percent of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States came on legal visas and overstayed. 
 Mr. Smadi's case has brought renewed calls from both parties in Congress for Department of Homeland Security officials to complete a universal electronic exit monitoring system. 
 Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the senior Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, said the Smadi case ''points to a real need for an entry and exit system if we are serious about reducing illegal immigration.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and chairman of the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration, said he would try to steer money from the economic stimulus program to build an exit monitoring system.
 Since the Sept. 11 attacks, immigration authorities, with more than $1 billion from Congress, have greatly improved and expanded their systems to monitor foreigners when they arrive. But despite several Congressional authorizations, there are no biometric inspections or a systematic follow-up to confirm that foreign visitors have departed. 
 Homeland security officials caution that universal exit monitoring is a daunting and costly goal, mainly because of the nation's long and busy land borders, with more than one million crossings every day. The wrong exit plan, they said, could clog trade, disrupt border cities and overwhelm immigration agencies with information they could not effectively use. 
 Since 2004, homeland security officials have put systems in place to check all foreigners as they arrive, whether by air, sea or land. Customs officers now take fingerprints and digital photographs of visitors from most countries, instantly comparing them against law enforcement watch list databases. (Canadians and Mexicans with special border-crossing cards are exempt from those checks.)
 But homeland security officials said that a series of pilot programs since 2004 had failed to yield an exit monitoring system that would work for the whole nation. They have not yet found technology to support speedy exit inspections at land borders. And airlines balked at an effort last year by the Bush administration to make them responsible for taking fingerprints and photographs of departing foreigners. 
 The current system relies on departing foreigners to turn in a paper stub when they leave.
 Last year, official figures show, 39 million foreign travelers were admitted on temporary visas like Mr. Smadi's. Based on the paper stubs, homeland security officials said, they confirmed the departure of 92.5 percent of them. Most of the remaining visitors did depart, officials said, but failed to check out because they did not know how to do so. But more than 200,000 of them are believed to have overstayed intentionally.
 Immigration authorities have put in place a separate system for keeping track of foreigners who, unlike Mr. Smadi, come on student visas. That system has proved effective at confirming that the students have stayed in school and do not overstay their visas, officials said.
 Immigration analysts said that given the difficulties of enforcing the United States' vast borders, it remains primarily up to law enforcement officials to thwart terrorism suspects who do not have records that would draw scrutiny before they enter the United States. 
 ''You can't ask the immigration system to do everything,'' said Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a research center in Washington, and a former commissioner of the immigration service. ''This is an example of how changes in law enforcement priorities and techniques since Sept. 11 actually got to where they should be.''
 Mr. Smadi, like many tourists who overstay visas, was able to fade easily into society and encountered few barriers to starting a life here, according to court documents and people who know him. He enrolled in high school, obtained a California identification card, landed jobs in two states and rented a string of apartments and houses. He bought at least two used cars, and even procured a handgun and ammunition.
 Mr. Smadi's arrest on Sept. 24 for the attempted bombing was not his first encounter with American law enforcement. Two weeks earlier, a sheriff's deputy in Ellis County, Tex., pulled him over for a broken tail light just north of the town of Italy, then arrested him for driving without a license or insurance. 
 When the deputy checked his identity, Mr. Smadi's name showed up on a watch list by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which was already investigating him. But the background check turned up no immigration record. The deputy called the F.B.I. and was told there was no outstanding arrest warrant for Mr. Smadi. So on the evening of Sept. 11, Mr. Smadi paid a $550 fine and walked out of the county jail. 
 ''There was nothing to indicate to us that this person was currently in the States illegally,'' said Chief Deputy Dennis Brearley. 
 Mr. Smadi had come to the United States from Jordan in early 2007 on a six-month tourist visa, immigration officials say. 
 For a few weeks he stayed in San Jose, Calif., with Hana Elrabodi, a retired Jordanian businessman who knew his family, according to Mr. Elrabodi's wife, Temina. Though Mr. Smadi was not authorized to work, he found a job at a local restaurant. In late March, Mr. Smadi obtained a California identification card using Mr. Elrabodi's address. 
 In October 2007, Mr. Smadi moved into an apartment in Santa Clara with his younger brother, Hussein Smadi, and another man he identified as his cousin, according to the manager of the apartment complex, Joe Redzovic. Mr. Smadi took another job, in a falafel restaurant, and in the winter he briefly enrolled in the Santa Clara High School.
 After a fire gutted his Santa Clara apartment, Mr. Smadi moved to Dallas. Though his visa had expired by April 2008, he landed a job working behind the counter at Texas Best Smokehouse in Italy, Tex., about 45 miles from Dallas. He rented a bungalow nearby, using his California identification and passing a criminal background check, said his former landlord, David South. 
 Three months later, Mr. Smadi married one of his co-workers, Rosalinda Duron. They separated in the fall of 2008 after only three months, Ms. Duron said.
 Investigators have found no evidence that Mr. Smadi, during his first year in the United States, openly espoused Islamic fundamentalism. Neither have they found any evidence that he received terrorist training abroad or came to the United States intending to commit a terrorist act, said Mark White, a spokesman for the F.B.I. in Dallas. 
 But by the spring of 2008, he caught the attention of the F.B.I. by posting incendiary remarks about wanting to kill Americans on Jihadist Web sites. Over the summer, he met with agents posing as members of Al Qaeda and planned to bomb the Fountain Place office building in downtown Dallas, according to an indictment unsealed on Thursday. 
 His arrest on terrorism charges came after he parked a truck that he had been told was carrying explosives in the building's underground garage, according to court documents.
 When the F.B.I. later searched his residence, they found a Beretta 9 millimeter pistol and a box of ammunition, along with his passport and the expired visa, the court documents show.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hosam Maher Husein Smadi entered the United States legally, but then overstayed his visa.
In Italy, Tex., Mr. Smadi was able to work at a restaurant, top, and rent an apartment, even though his visa had expired. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COURTNEY PERRY/DALLAS MORNING NEWS
 RON T. ENNIS/FORT WORTH STAR-TELEGRAM) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); FINGERPRINTING (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BIOMETRICS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); AIRLINES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

PERSON: LAMAR SMITH (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



330 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Misguided Monetary Mentalities

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
One lesson from the Great Depression is that you should never underestimate the destructive power of bad ideas. And some of the bad ideas that helped cause the Depression have, alas, proved all too durable: in modified form, they continue to influence economic debate today.
 What ideas am I talking about? The economic historian Peter Temin has argued that a key cause of the Depression was what he calls the ''gold-standard mentality.'' By this he means not just belief in the sacred importance of maintaining the gold value of one's currency, but a set of associated attitudes: obsessive fear of inflation even in the face of deflation; opposition to easy credit, even when the economy desperately needs it, on the grounds that it would be somehow corrupting; assertions that even if the government can create jobs it shouldn't, because this would only be an ''artificial'' recovery. 
 In the early 1930s this mentality led governments to raise interest rates and slash spending, despite mass unemployment, in an attempt to defend their gold reserves. And even when countries went off gold, the prevailing mentality made them reluctant to cut rates and create jobs.
 But we're past all that now. Or are we?
 America isn't about to go back on the gold standard. But a modern version of the gold standard mentality is nonetheless exerting a growing influence on our economic discourse. And this new version of a bad old idea could undermine our chances for full recovery.
 Consider first the current uproar over the declining international value of the dollar.
 The truth is that the falling dollar is good news. For one thing, it's mainly the result of rising confidence: the dollar rose at the height of the financial crisis as panicked investors sought safe haven in America, and it's falling again now that the fear is subsiding. And a lower dollar is good for U.S. exporters, helping us make the transition away from huge trade deficits to a more sustainable international position. 
 But if you get your opinions from, say, The Wall Street Journal's editorial page, you're told that the falling dollar is a terrible thing, a sign that the world is losing faith in America (and especially, of course, in President Obama). Something, you believe, must be done to stop the dollar's slide. And in practice the dollar's decline has become a stick with which conservative members of Congress beat the Federal Reserve, pressuring the Fed to scale back its efforts to support the economy.
 We can only hope that the Fed stands up to this pressure. But there are worrying signs of a misguided monetary mentality within the Federal Reserve system itself. 
 In recent weeks there have been a number of statements from Fed officials, mainly but not only presidents of regional Federal Reserve banks, calling for an early return to tighter money, including higher interest rates. Now, people in the Federal Reserve system are normally extremely circumspect when making statements about future monetary policy, so as not to step on the efforts of the Fed's Open Market Committee, which actually sets those rates, to shape expectations. So it's extraordinary to see all these officials suddenly breaking the implicit rules, in effect lecturing the Open Market Committee about what it should do.
 What's even more extraordinary, however, is the idea that raising rates would make sense any time soon. After all, the unemployment rate is a horrifying 9.8 percent and still rising, while inflation is running well below the Fed's long-term target. This suggests that the Fed should be in no hurry to tighten -- in fact, standard policy rules of thumb suggest that interest rates should be left on hold for the next two years or more, or until the unemployment rate has fallen to around 7 percent.
 Yet some Fed officials want to pull the trigger on rates much sooner. To avoid a ''Great Inflation,'' says Charles Plosser of the Philadelphia Fed, ''we will need to act well before unemployment rates and other measures of resource utilization have returned to acceptable levels.'' Jeffrey Lacker of the Richmond Fed says that rates may need to rise even if ''the unemployment rate hasn't started falling yet.''
 I don't know what analysis lies behind these itchy trigger fingers. But it probably isn't about analysis, anyway -- it's about mentality, the sense that central banks are supposed to act tough, not provide easy credit.
 And it's crucial that we don't let this mentality guide policy. We do seem to have avoided a second Great Depression. But giving in to a modern version of our grandfathers' prejudices would be a very good way to ensure the next worst thing: a prolonged era of sluggish growth and very high unemployment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEFLATION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); HISTORY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



331 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Sweat Lodge Deaths Bring Soul-Searching to Area Deep in Seekers

BYLINE: By JOHN DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: SEDONA, Ariz. 

 BODY:
Tucked into stunning red rock formations and canyons punctuated with splashes of green junipers, this town of about 11,500 has long been a high-end golf and tennis resort, the choice location for second homes of the well-to-do and a favorite destination for hikers, rock climbers, cyclists and sightseers. 
 It has also become world-renowned as a New Age metaphysical center, attracting seekers and followers of an assortment of spiritual pathways, many of whom believe healing energy is released from ''vortexes'' that are said to be scattered among the rock formations. 
 Scores of self-proclaimed mystics, healers, channelers of past life experiences (and aliens), sacred touch massage therapists, wind whisperers and vision quest guides offer their services, often for a hefty price. Many of these spiritual pathways are based somewhat loosely around Native American traditions, including the ceremonial sweat lodge.
 But the deaths of two people in a sweat lodge last week at Angel Valley, a New Age spiritual retreat about six miles south of West Sedona, is causing more soul-searching among New Age practitioners and concern among town leaders.
 ''We are severely impacted by the fact that this happened,'' said Sedona's mayor, Rob Adams. ''We need to get to the bottom of what happened.''
 Kirby Brown, 38, of Westtown, N.Y., and James Shore, 40, of Milwaukee, died on Thursday after collapsing inside the Angel Valley sweat lodge. Three other people were airlifted in critical condition to Flagstaff Medical Center.
 ''The people in the field will take a close look at their operations, absolutely,'' said Marcus, an intuitive counselor -- a kind of spiritual guide -- who goes by only his first name. ''This is ridiculous, it shouldn't have happened.''
 At least seven other people have died in ceremonial sweat lodges since 1993 in the United States, England and Australia, according to news accounts compiled by Alton Carroll, an adjunct professor of history at San Antonio College who also moderates the Web site Newagefraud.org.
 James Arthur Ray, a self-help expert from Carlsbad, Calif., led what was billed as five-day ''spiritual warrior'' experience at Angel Valley, which concluded with a tightly packed sweat lodge ceremony. Participants paid about $9,000 each for the weeklong retreat, which included seminars, a 36-hour fast and solo experiences in the forest.
 The authorities say that at any one time 55 to 65 people were packed for a two-hour period into a 415-square foot structure that was 53 inches high at the center and 30 inches high on the perimeter. Mr. Ray's employees built the wood-frame lodge, which was wrapped in blankets and plastic tarps. Hot rocks were brought into the lodge and doused with water. Mr. Ray, who conducted the ceremony, left the area on Thursday after declining to give a statement to the police.
 Sheriff Steve Waugh of Yavapai County said a death investigation would continue for several weeks. Mr. Ray, the Angel Valley owners, Michael and Amayra Hamilton, and all the participants are part of the investigation, the sheriff said. The results from autopsies that were conducted Friday have not been released and results from toxicology tests are not expected for several weeks.
 Dr. Carroll, who is partly of Mescalero Apache descent, said the Angel Valley sweat lodge was the ''best example I have seen, sadly, in a long time of why it is extremely dangerous to conduct sweat lodge ceremonies without proper training.''
 Katherine Lash, a co-owner of Spiritquest Retreat in Sedona and a veteran of more than 100 sweat lodge ceremonies, said she had never heard of a sweat being conducted with as many people as were involved in the Angel Valley event. ''In my experience it has been very rare to have more than 20 people,'' she said. 
 Limiting the number of people inside a sweat lodge is critical because the person leading the event is supposed to carefully monitor the mental and physical condition of each participant, experts said. 
 ''It's important to know who is responsible for your spiritual and physical safety in that lodge,'' said Vernon Foster, a member of the Klamath-Modoc tribe who regularly leads ceremonial sweat lodge events in central Arizona. 
 Mr. Foster said native people would use only natural materials in the construction of a sweat lodge. ''We would never use plastic to cover our lodges,'' he said. ''The lodge has to breathe, that steam has to go someplace.''
 Sheriff's office investigators are conducting tests to determine whether any toxins were released during the ceremony. The authorities said sandalwood ''was thrown on the rocks to give the effect of incense.'' A 2007 study by the National University of Singapore on the effects of smoke emitted by sandalwood incense published in the journal Science and Technology of Advanced Materials found that ''continuous and prolonged exposure to incense smoke is of concern.''
 Ms. Brown, said friends in Cabo San Lucas, Mex., where she lived and worked as a interior house painter, was in excellent physical condition and regularly practiced yoga and enjoyed surfing. ''She was very beautiful and a very, very exceptional and unique person,'' said Todd Clouser, a musician from Boston who met Ms. Brown three years ago.
 Mr. Clouser said he was not surprised that Ms. Brown would attend a sweat lodge. ''It was totally up her alley,'' he said.
 Mayor Adams said that Sedona believed that people should be free to follow their spiritual path and that metaphysical services would continue to be an important part of the area's economy. But, he said he shared concerns of some Native Americans who complain that non-natives are, at times, exploiting their sacred ceremonial practices for profit. 
 ''If it is simply to make money, then that's another issue,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Investigators are looking into two deaths that occurred in a spiritual retreat near Sedona, Ariz. The cause of death is unknown.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM TINGLE/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); RESORTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HIKING (77%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (76%); CLIMBING (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); MASSAGE SERVICES (70%); HISTORY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); NATIVE AMERICANS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEDONA, AZ, USA (94%); FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



332 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 463 words

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 Bronx Deli's Busy,
But Sales Shrink
 If the bustle of unloading delivery trucks and the crowds of customers shouting orders over deli counters along Arthur Avenue in the Bronx are any indication, the recession hasn't stopped a solid base of New Yorkers and tourists from spending to sate their cravings for fresh mozzarella, spicy salami and imported olive oil. 
 Still, business owners in the Bronx's Little Italy, like David Greco, say that the economic outlook from behind the deli counter is troubling.
 Mr. Greco, who took over his father's business, Mike's Deli (in the Arthur Avenue Retail Market), 14 years ago, hustled in the boom years to promote and diversify the operation. He added a catering business that shipped out mammoth sandwiches to Wall Street traders celebrating banner profits and for Yankee fans at the nearby stadium. And he bought a building where he could consolidate his cheese factory, his warehouse and his offices. 
 But Mr. Greco said that the economic troubles started plaguing his business three years ago as the euro strengthened against the dollar. Though his retail business has remained busy, he said he has had trouble staying profitable because of the rising cost of imported products from Italy like prosciutto, olives and cheeses. 
 Customers have cut their budgets for gift baskets to $100 from $200, and catering demand has dried up.
 Mr. Greco talked recently about the recession's effects on his business.
 Q. How have your sales been at the new Yankee Stadium?
 A. I'm taking such a hit at Yankee Stadium. Now I'm doing 150 to 250 sandwiches a night. I'm struggling. $500 a game I lose. I have to pull out unless they give me a better deal.
 Q. How are people shopping and eating differently during the recession?
 A. People buy less cold cuts. They eat home more. We're seeing more prepared foods. I can't make enough eggplant parmesan.
 Q. What patterns do you see with lunchtime customers at your cafe?
 A. I get a lot of women who eat at lunchtime and take the other half home to their husbands.
 Q. Why does what happens to businesses like yours in the Bronx matter so much?
 A. We are the last of Little Italy. If something were to happen to this neighborhood, this is a problem for all of the Bronx. CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY
 SLIDESHOW: Online: A slide show from the retail market.
 NEW YORK
 DAYBOOK
 Parking Rules
 Because of Diwali, alternate-side street-cleaning rules are suspended on Saturday.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, the drummer Craig Holiday Haynes, who lives in Queens and has been playing professionally since he was 13, will be responding to readers' questions about the life of a jazz musician in New York.
 Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Mike's Deli in the Bronx.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEESE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PREPARED FOODS (76%); CATERING SERVICES (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); IMPORT PRICES (71%); CHEESE MFG (71%); SPORTS FANS (68%); DIWALI (68%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); JAZZ & BLUES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



333 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Like Desert Wanderers, Coyotes Endure Disarray

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

DATELINE: GLENDALE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
After another discouraging day, the flesh-and-bones pillar of the property sat in a wood-paneled dressing room with his head bowed. The clock is ticking on this transplanted Arizonan, Shane Doan, and the other tenants of 9400 West Maryland Ave., who wake up most mornings to a brilliant sun partly eclipsed by clouds as black as ink. 
 Like countless others in the metropolitan Phoenix area, one of the hardest hit in the country by the economic and housing crisis, they fear having to walk away from their dream home, for them a 77-bathroom, 88-luxury-loft palace on 75 acres of former farmland. 
 Almost six years after the Coyotes moved into Jobing.Com Arena, the promise of stability and success is looking more and more like a mirage. The franchise was dragged through bankruptcy court this summer. A week before the start of the season, Judge Redfield T. Baum rejected one offer to buy the team, from a business mogul intent on moving the franchise to Canada, and rejected another from the N.H.L.. 
 For now the Coyotes are being operated by the league, their future beyond this season on the thinnest of ice. The team, which lost $30 million last season, played its home opener Saturday night against the Columbus Blue Jackets in front of a capacity crowd of 17,532. Jobing.Com Arena was staged to look its best, with $180 seats discounted to $25 and seats in the upper reaches priced at $15. 
 The fans wore white, a playoff tradition the franchise introduced when it was based in Winnipeg. It was apt, given that every Coyotes game has the feel of a do-or-done contest. 
 ''We're caught in the perfect storm,'' said Don Maloney, the Coyotes' general manager. ''The economy here is in very tough shape. The ownership situation is in disarray. And yet, I think we have a tremendous opportunity here. The question is, will we have enough time to show it?'' 
 The Coyotes opened the season with two road victories, including a 3-0 win over the defending champion Pittsburgh Penguins. They are 2-2 going into their game Monday at San Jose after dropping a 2-0 decision to the Blue Jackets. They outshot Columbus by 36-19 but failed on seven power plays, including two five-on-three advantages. 
 Doan, a 14-year veteran who has been with the team since before it moved to Phoenix in 1996, hit the post twice on close-range scoring attempts. ''Five-on-three, we've got to get one,'' he said. ''That's unacceptable.''
 There is so much about the Coyotes' situation that is undesirable, starting with their lease, which requires them to pay a parking fee of $2.70 per ticket to the city of Glendale. 
 The arena, the Coyotes' home since 2003, is a 31-mile drive from the team's practice facility in Scottsdale, where most of the players and many of the season-ticket holders live. On weeknights, the drive is the commuting equivalent of the neutral-zone trap, with so much traffic it burns the fans' gas and good will in equal measures. 
 ''I really think the biggest problem is the arena is so hard to get to because of the traffic,'' said Jim Adams, a longtime season-ticket holder. 
 After 12 seasons of buying 20-game packages, Adams and two friends did not renew their seats this season. They had seats near center ice, in the lower bowl, and they enjoyed their guys' nights out. ''One guy had to choose between keeping Cardinals tickets or Coyotes tickets, and he chose the Cardinals,'' Adams said, referring to the Super Bowl runners-up, who needed 24-hour extensions to sell out two home games this season to satisfy the N.F.L.'s blackout rules for television. ''The other said, 'Gary Bettman's not getting another dime out of me.' '' 
 Bettman, the N.H.L. commissioner, chose to attend the Florida Panthers' home opener Saturday over the Coyotes' game, and Adams was not there, either. He used the $1,300 he would have spent on hockey tickets to buy a golf membership and season tickets to Arizona State's men's basketball. 
 ''So many fans have been scared away by the bankruptcy,'' said Heather Schroeder, the president of the Coyotes Booster Club. 
 Schroeder, 39, has rescued dogs and cats from the pound, and now she is doing what she can to save the Coyotes. Since spring, the downtown Phoenix courthouse has been Schroeder's office. Unemployed for the last several months, she attended the bankruptcy hearings faithfully, then went home at night and pored over legal documents related to the case on the Internet. She compared notes with another season-ticket holder and regular court attendee, Larry Halliday, who was laid off a year ago from his job in semiconductor sales. 
 ''Not having a job has been a sad blessing,'' Schroeder said. Asked what she learned from all her research, she said: ''That everything's up for interpretation. Larry and I read all the same documents, and we disagree on how to interpret the information.'' She added, ''One thing we did find out from all our reading is that Jerry Bruckheimer inquired about buying the team.'' 
 Bruckheimer, a film and television producer, attended college at Arizona. The Coyotes could do worse. Asked in an interview several years ago to describe his producing philosophy, he said, ''You hire the right guys because they are better than you.'' 
 It was a philosophy followed by neither Jerry Moyes, a trucking magnate who bought the team in 2005, nor Wayne Gretzky, a managing partner who assumed the head coaching duties before the 2005-6 season. They each placed cronies in positions of power, which contributed to the team's playoff drought reaching six seasons. Gretzky resigned as the coach a week before the start of the season after his compensation was debated in court. Dave Tippett was hired as his replacement. 
 Adams said: ''Shane Doan's the only real hero here. I like him so much I'd rather see him leave and go somewhere else where he can be successful.'' 
 Doan, whose distinguishing features are a jaw as square as a Zamboni, a genuine decency and clockwork consistency, said, ''I want to win here.'' 
 He was raised on a horse ranch in Halkirk, Alberta, a town with a population of 150, and says he is thrilled that his four children are growing up similarly, with horses on a ranch, albeit in the middle of a metropolitan area of well over three million residents.
 Over the summer, Doan was blindsided by his 7-year-old son, Joshua, who asked him plaintively, ''Are we going to have to leave?'' 
 Joshua's anxiety, which he has passed on to his oldest sibling, 11-year-old Grace, is a reminder to Doan that he and the other Coyotes are the fortunate ones. They can step on a sheet of ice anywhere and feel at home. The rink is their sanctuary.
 The family members who cannot bear the thought of leaving and the fans who do not want to see them to go are more powerless. 
 Since he entered the N.H.L., Doan has inscribed his hockey sticks with ''29:11.'' It is a reference to a biblical passage from Jeremiah that resonates more now than ever: ''For I know the plans I have for you, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Heather Schroeder and Larry Halliday watched a Coyotes game at a Scottsdale bar. Both have attended the team's bankruptcy hearings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (90%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); RELOCATIONS (74%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBUS BLUE JACKETS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (93%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (90%); MANITOBA, CANADA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



334 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
 Dave Armon joined Dna13, Ottawa, Ontario, as vice chairman, a new post, based in the New York office. His hiring comes as Chris Johnson relinquishes his duties as chief executive while remaining an investor in the company. Mr. Armon had most recently been president and chief operating officer at PRNewswire, New York. 
 Carfax, Centreville, Va., named Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group, as its agency of record after working with Zimmerman on a project basis since December. Zimmerman will handle creative duties as well as media planning and buying; the media assignment had most recently been handled by Maxus, part of the GroupM unit of WPP. Carfax spends about $20 million a year for advertising in major media.
 Michelle Cheney joined the Dallas office of Cheil USA, part of Cheil Worldwide, as associate engagement director, a new post. She had been account director at Team a3, Dallas, formerly Square One Advertising. 
 Michael Chico, executive vice president for sales and marketing at Screenvision Cinema Network, was elected chairman and president at the Cinema Advertising Council. He takes over from Dave Kupiec, executive vice president for sales and marketing at National CineMedia, who becomes executive director for the council.
 Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami and Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners, hired four employees. Andrew Ault becomes a senior copywriter; he had been a creative director at the Creative Artists Agency, Beverly Hills, Calif. Dan Ligon becomes an interactive associate creative director; he had been an associate creative director at AKQA, San Francisco. Tom Miller becomes a creative director; he had been a creative director at Merkley & Partners, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. And Kara Taylor becomes creative recruitment director; she had been senior vice president and director for creative recruitment at Leo Burnett, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe.
 John Davison joined GamePro Media, San Francisco, part of the International Data Group, in a new post, executive vice president for content. He had most recently been president at What They Like, which operates Web sites like whattheyplay.com.
 Michael J. Davis and Urvashi Pitre joined IMC2, Dallas, in new posts. Mr. Davis becomes chief creative officer; he had been senior vice president and group director at Draft FCB, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Ms. Pitre becomes senior vice president for relationship analytics and insights; she had most recently been chief marketing information officer for North America at the RMG Connect unit of JWT, part of WPP, dividing her time between Dallas and New York.
 Barbara DeBuono joined Porter Novelli, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, chief medical officer and global director for public health and social marketing. She had been executive director for public health and government at Pfizer, New York.
 Dragon Rouge USA, New York, promoted an employee and hired another. Alexandra Balfour, client services director, was promoted to manage new-business activities in the United States; her title remains unchanged. Ms. Ali assumes duties from Gilles Guilbert, who left to join Wolff Olins, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. And Carolyn Centeno joined the agency as client services manager, a new post. She had been brand strategist at Food for Thought Tours, New York, which she founded.
 Michael Fanuele, managing director for strategy at Euro RSCG New York -- the New York office of RSCG Worldwide, part of Havas -- was promoted to chief strategy officer for the office. He assumes duties from Andrew Benett, who is global chief strategy officer at Euro RSCG Worldwide and co-chief executive at Euro RSCG New York. 
 Will Hammond and Shaun Rance joined the Los Angeles (Playa del Rey) office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group. Mr. Hammond becomes a creative director; he had been an associate creative director at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, also part of Omnicom. Mr. Rance becomes an interaction designer; he had been an associate experience designer at AKQA, San Francisco.
 Howard Handler joined MSG Entertainment, New York, part of the Cablevision Systems Corporation, in a new post, executive vice president for marketing and sales. He had been executive vice president for North America at EMI Music.
 Melissa Lentz joined Mr. Youth, New York, as vice president for account services, a new post. She had been management supervisor at Tribal DDB, New York, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. 
 Julie Liss joined Publicis & Hal Riney, San Francisco, part of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, chief strategy officer. She had been director for strategy and planning at the Los Angeles (Playa del Rey) office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.
 Lauren A. Meller joined iVillage, New York, in a new post, vice president for communications. She had been director of corporate communications for advertising and sales at Yahoo. IVillage is part of NBC Universal Women and Lifestyle Entertainment Networks, a division of the NBC Universal unit of General Electric.
 Memolink, Denver, was renamed Adperio.
 Jim Moldow joined WestGlen Communications, New York, as vice president and account director. He had been vice president for business development at On the Scene Productions.
 The Mother New York office has seen a departure and an arrival. Rob DeFlorio, who helped found the office in 2002, is leaving, he said in a statement, to pursue personal interests. Eugene Fuller is joining Mother New York as a copywriter, coming from Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners.
 Ann Mukherjee, vice president for marketing at Frito-Lay North America, Plano, Tex., part of the Frito-Lay division of PepsiCo, was promoted to senior vice president and chief marketing officer. She succeeds Jaya Kumar, who was named president at the Quaker foods and snacks division of the Quaker Oats unit of PepsiCo.
 New Jersey Advertising Hall of Fame elected three new members. They are: Laura Johnson, sales manager at News 12 New Jersey; Denise McVey, president at S3; and James C. Smith, founding partner at Smith Design. They will be honored at a dinner on Oct. 20. The hall is housed at the Montclair State University School of Business. 
 Partners for Self Employment, Miami, selected Creative Connection, North Miami Beach, as agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had most recently been handled by the Hollywood, Fla., office of InnerLeaf Communications.
 Portland Timbers named Nemo, Portland, Ore., as agency of record for its 2010 season in the United Soccer Leagues and its inaugural season in Major League Soccer, in 2011. Billings were not disclosed. 
 Seiter & Miller Advertising was selected as the New York member of the Advertising and Marketing International Network, which is composed of 65 independent agencies.
 Neilan Tyree joined David & Goliath, El Segundo, Calif., in a new post, chief marketing officer and head of new business. He has most recently been a consultant and before that worked at agencies like JWT and Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners.
 Marcus Vinton joined Publicis Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, as partner and chief creative officer of a new unit, Publicis Entertainment, to be based in London with plans to open in other cities. Mr. Vinton had been executive creative director at the London office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); SALES MANAGEMENT (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (77%); CINEMA ADVERTISING (76%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (76%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (71%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (95%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (68%); SQUARE ONE (57%); ZIMMERMAN ADVERTISING LLC (57%); CHEIL WORLDWIDE INC (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (55%); NATIONAL CINEMEDIA INC (55%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (54%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (53%); JWT (51%); PFIZER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVERTISING COUNCIL (55%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (95%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); PUB (PAR) (83%); 030000 (KSE) (56%); MDZ.A (TSX) (55%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (55%); NCMI (NASDAQ) (55%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (54%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



335 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LINK BY LINK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Is It a Day to Be Happy? Check the Index

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
HEY, America, to quote the relentlessly upbeat temp in the movie ''Office Space,'' it sounds like somebody has a case of the Mondays. 
 There is a 9.7 percent increase in happiness on Fridays compared with the worst day of the week, Monday. That is among the discoveries made by Facebook researchers with access to two years of anonymous ''status updates'' from 100 million users in the United States.
 Another conclusion: holidays like the Fourth of July, Thanksgiving and Halloween make Americans happy, while days when celebrities like Michael Jackson or Heath Ledger die make Americans sad. Such insights -- obvious though some may be -- leap out from the new Gross National Happiness Index, unveiled last Monday by Facebook. 
 The index is an attempt to say something profound based on the reports of daily life that Facebook users impose on -- um, share with -- their friends.
 The idea, one that is generally accepted in social psychology, is that word choice can reveal a person's mood. This is true in ordinary writing, these experts say, and even more so in writing like Facebook updates or the tweets of Twitter users, which ostensibly are attempts to describe what you are doing right now and how you feel. (While tweets limn the psyche in 140-character installments, Facebook updates are downright Augustinian, with some running as long as 420 characters.) 
 ''When people in their status updates use more positive words -- or fewer negative words -- then that day as a whole is counted as happier than usual,'' the creator of the index, Adam D. I. Kramer, explained in a Facebook blog post unveiling the project, where he also said that he was 72 percent happier than the average Facebook user.
 Mr. Kramer hardly seemed giddy in a telephone interview on Thursday -- he seemed determined, precise, ambitious, even harried, since he is working to finish his doctoral dissertation in social psychology at the University of Oregon.
 But he did seem optimistic. The Facebook happiness index, he said, could be the first step in reorienting the nation's sense of self-worth. 
 ''We have tracked the economic health of the nation for a long time,'' he said. ''The reason we track those things is that the government is full of economists, not psychologists.''
 ''If we know money doesn't buy happiness,'' he asked, ''why are we optimizing for money?'' 
 The idea that countries pursue the wrong policies because they collect the wrong data has been gaining traction. The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, created a commission last year that included the Nobel Prize winning economists Joseph Stiglitz and Amartya Sen to come up with better models for judging ''economic performance and social progress.'' 
 Their report, which was issued last month, recommended considering many factors, including ''well-being'' and income inequality.
 Though Mr. Kramer sees the happiness index as superior to the gross domestic product, a quick glance shows that for now the index -- with its daily leaps up and down and long-term trend lines -- resembles nothing so much as a stock ticker, with Mother's Day replacing a good earnings report in explaining a spike.
 The obvious triggers of peaks and troughs in the happiness index may raise snickers, but to researchers they are reassuring and hold the promise of less obvious insights.
 ''It's early,'' said James W. Pennebaker, a psychology professor at the University of Texas at Austin who is one of the people responsible for the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count dictionary, which Facebook used to assess words for happiness and sadness. (Happy words include, naturally, ''happy,'' ''yay'' and ''awesome''; sad words include ''sad,'' ''doubt'' and ''tragic.'')
 Such playful and public-minded research is relatively rare for Facebook when compared with the much-larger Google, which devotes great resources to experimenting with its data.
 But Facebook has one clear research advantage over Google, said Cameron Marlow, the head of Facebook's 10-member research department: its material is much richer than mere search terms. Facebook records relationships -- how they grow, how they falter, how they change, how they persist.
 ''The type of things that people reveal on Facebook are the kind of things that sociologists have tried to collect through surveys for decades,'' he said. ''Say I want to understand how the divorce rate is changing -- for a social scientist to produce a report on this, it would take a team of researchers, a company to collect the data.'' But on Facebook, people routinely provide such information in great detail as it happens in their lives.
 Both companies are trying to answer questions central to their businesses. Facebook's questions are just more interesting. Google wants to know how to provide the information you want as efficiently as possible; Facebook wants to know how people get and keep friends.
 Mr. Marlow said his researchers were analyzing the ethnic and racial backgrounds of Facebook users -- in the aggregate, he stressed, using census data on the distribution of last names -- to see which groups are overrepresented and which are underrepresented. Such research can naturally evolve, he said, into understanding how groups interact on Facebook, and how those interactions change over time, another important indicator of the state of the nation. 
 ''This is an example that was largely sparked by internal discussions,'' he said. ''We are asking for obvious business reasons to see if there are biases in Facebook.''
 To Mr. Pennebaker, the Facebook material has the potential to unlock secrets about how people interact. ''It is an incredible resource in terms of studying human connections, friendship, love, hate, stigma,'' he said. ''This kind of work should be required for social psychologists.'' 
 He agreed, though, that it likewise has the potential to turn ''creepy,'' with computers managing to probe deeper into our minds than any person could.
 ''I could imagine it would allow us to look at a group of people, get a sense of what their concerns are, how insecure they feel,'' he said. ''It could be an advertiser's dream. Yes, it is creepy from a government perspective, but it is even creepier from an advertising perspective.'' 
 At a minimum, we now all know that there is sound basis not to name a restaurant Thank God It's Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Holidays like the Fourth of July, Halloween and Thanksgiving make Americans happy, Facebook researchers say. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GARY HERSHORN/REUTERS
ALAN S. ORLING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: DON'T WORRY, BE HAPPY: Facebook, the social networking Web site, has developed a happiness index based on the number of times people on the site use words to convey joy (like ''happy,'' ''yay'' and ''awesome'') and unhappiness (''sad,'' ''doubt'' and ''tragic''). (Source: Facebook) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HALLOWEEN (70%); THANKSGIVING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

PERSON: HEATH LEDGER (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



336 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WARD, RALPH E.

 BODY:
WARD--Ralph E.,88, died peacefully at Greenwich Hospital on October 7, 2009 after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife of twenty-eight years, Elaine Simon Ward of Darien, CT, and Manhattan, and his five children, Sarah Ward Hogan of Mont Vernon, NH, Richard R. Ward of River Falls, WI, Thomas D. Ward of Sarasota, FL, John B. Ward, of Darien, CT and James R. Ward of Easton, CT. from his marriage to the late Eugenia E. McManigal as well as fifteen grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Born in Scotch Plains, NJ. 
PUB-DATE: February 26, 1921,

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); MARRIAGE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); ARMIES (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); AIR FORCES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LACROSSE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (67%); APPOINTMENTS (64%); CHEMICALS (61%); CHEMICALS MFG (61%); FOOD MFG (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (80%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (63%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (80%); JPM (LSE) (80%); 8634 (TSE) (80%); UNIA (AMS) (63%); UNA (BIT) (63%); UNA (AMS) (63%); UN (NYSE) (63%); ULVR (LSE) (63%); UL (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



337 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 180 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include retail sales and import prices for September and business inventories for August (Wednesday); the consumer price index for September (Thursday); industrial production for September and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from CSX, Johnson & Johnson and Intel (Tuesday); Abbott Laboratories, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley (Wednesday); Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, Harley-Davidson (bikes shown above), McClatchy, Nokia, Safeway, Southwest Airlines, Advanced Micro Devices, Google and I.B.M. (Thursday); Bank of America, General Electric, Halliburton and Mattel (Friday). 
 IN WASHINGTON The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will conduct a hearing on A.I.G. bonuses (Wednesday). 
 The Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing on the state of the banking industry (Wednesday). 
 IN THE COURTS A securities fraud trial involving two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers, Ralph Cioffi and Matthew Tannin, is scheduled to begin in New York (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); IMPORT PRICES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); AIRLINES (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (72%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); ABT (SWX) (72%); ABT (NYSE) (72%); ABT (LSE) (72%); ABL (FRA) (72%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (FRA) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



338 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: New Generation of Gay Rights Advocates March to Put Pressure on the President

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Ashley Southall contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Impatient and discouraged by what they see as a certain detachment by President Obama on their issues, gay rights supporters took to the streets Sunday in the largest demonstration for gay rights here in nearly a decade.
 The rally was primarily the undertaking of a new generation of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender advocates who have grown disillusioned with the movement's leadership.
 Known as Stonewall 2.0 or the Prop. 8 Generation (a reference to the galvanizing effect that the repeal of California's same-sex marriage law had on many young people), these activists, in their 20s and 30s, are at odds with advocates urging patience as Mr. Obama grapples with other pieces of his domestic agenda like the health care overhaul and the economic recovery. 
 ''I think this march represents the passing of the torch,'' said Corey Johnson, 27, an activist and blogger for the gay-themed Web site Towleroad.com. ''The points of power are no longer in the halls of Washington or large metropolitan areas. It's decentralized now. You have young activists and gay people from all walks of life converging on Washington not because a national organization told them to, but because they feel the time is now.''
 The rally on Sunday and a black-tie gala on Saturday hosted by the Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest gay rights advocacy group, made for a glaring dichotomy. Mr. Obama, who spoke at the dinner, had the crowd on its feet reiterating his pledge to end the military's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy and declaring his commitment to gay rights as ''unwavering.''
 But at the rally, some gave the speech low marks for lacking anything new and failing to acknowledge several major issues confronting the movement. In the words of Billie Myers, a musician who spoke to an eager crowd of tens of thousands on the west lawn of the Capitol, ''I'm sorry, but I didn't like your speech.''
 The president did not lay out a timetable to repeal the ban on gays and lesbians serving openly in the military, voice support for any of the battles going on at state levels to allow same-sex couples more recognition under the law nor mention the march.
 ''He knows this march is happening, and he can't even acknowledge it?'' said Robin McGehee, 36, a co-director of the march. Ms. McGehee took issue with people she believes are giving the president a pass. 
 ''In our community, there are people working hard to build a relationship with the president and people screaming in the streets for their rights,'' she said. ''There is an urgency with the people on the streets and a sense of 'Oh, he'll come around' with the people who ate dinner with him.'' 
 The Human Rights Campaign, which helped organize the last gay rights march on Washington in 2000 but had virtually no involvement in Sunday's event, stirred up some controversy over the weekend after its president, Joe Solmonese, wrote a letter to supporters urging them to take Mr. Obama at his word. ''It's not January 19, 2017,'' he wrote, referring to what would be the last day of Mr. Obama's presidency if he were to win a second term.
 While generally supportive of the president, many marchers said they felt that he had not delivered on campaign promises he made to gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender Americans.
 ''I think he has a lot on his plate,'' said Rachael McIntosh, 25, of Worcester, Mass. ''But I'd hoped we'd be a priority.'' Ms. McIntosh raised a sign that read ''Nobel Peace Prize. Earn It!'' 
 Organizers of the march encountered considerable opposition from within gay political circles and from those who argued that it was hastily planned and would divert resources from campaigns at the state level.
 Representative Barney Frank called the march ''emotional satisfaction'' for its organizers and said of their intention to pressure the Obama administration, ''The only thing they're going to put pressure on is the grass.''
 The organizers were rating the march a success, saying that at least 150,000 people had attended, though the authorities gave no official estimate of the crowd size. 
 The marchers included many who were not gay but attended to support gay friends.
 Lisa Kimmey, 25, drove all night with gay friends from Chicago so she could attend the march with them. ''If I can get married, if I can get my partner's health insurance, then everyone else in this country should be able to. It's 2009, and it's unbelievable to me that they don't have that,'' Ms. Kimmey said.
 Dave Valk, 22, the student outreach coordinator for the march, said he believed that many people his age were embracing gay rights as the civil rights struggle of their time. ''There are a lot of people getting involved not just because it's a gay rights movement but because it's a generational movement,'' he said. ''People feel like they're part of a shift, that this is important.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gay rights advocates passed the White House as they headed down Pennsylvania Avenue in the National Equality March.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (97%); LGBT RIGHTS (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COHABITATION (78%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); VOICE RECOGNITION (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (54%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



339 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Heckuva Job, Barack

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
This was Barack Obama's chance. 
 Here was an opportunity to cut himself free, in a stroke, from the baggage that's weighed his presidency down -- the implausible expectations, the utopian dreams, the messianic hoo-ha.
 Here was a place to draw a clean line between himself and all the overzealous Obamaphiles, at home and abroad, who poured their post-Christian, post-Marxist yearnings into the vessel of his 2008 campaign. 
 Here was a chance to establish himself, definitively, as an American president -- too self-confident to accept an unearned accolade, and too instinctively democratic to go along with European humbug.
 He didn't take it. Instead, he took the Nobel Peace Prize. 
 Big mistake.
 People have argued that you can't turn down a Nobel. Please. Of course you can. Obama is a gifted rhetorician with world-class speechwriters. All he would have needed was a simple, graceful statement emphasizing the impossibility of accepting such an honor during his first year in office, with America's armed forces still deep in two unfinished wars.
 Would the world have been offended? Well, to start with, the prize isn't given out by an imaginary ''world community.'' It's voted on and handed out by a committee of five obscure Norwegians. So turning it down would have been a slap in the face, yes, to Thorbjorn Jagland, Kaci Kullmann Five, Sissel Marie Ronbeck, Inger-Marie Ytterhorn and Agot Valle. But it wouldn't have been a slap in the face to the Europeans or the Africans, to Moscow or Beijing, or to any other population or great power that an American president should fret about offending. 
 In any case, it will be far more offensive when Obama takes the stage in Oslo this November instead of Morgan Tsvangirai, Zimbabwe's heroic opposition leader; or Thich Quang Do, the Buddhist monk and critic of Vietnam's authoritarian regime; or Rebiya Kadeer, exiled from China for her labors on behalf of the oppressed Uighur minority; or anyone who has courted death this year protesting for democracy in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
 True, Obama didn't ask for this. It was obvious, from his halting delivery and slightly shamefaced air last Friday, that he wishes the Nobel committee hadn't put him in this spot. 
 But he still wasn't brave enough to tell it no. 
 Obama gains nothing from the prize. No domestic constituency will become more favorably disposed to him because five Norwegians think he's already changed the world -- and the Republicans were just handed the punch line for an easy recession-era attack ad. (To quote the Democratic strategist Joe Trippi, anticipating the 30-second spots to come: ''He got a Nobel Prize. What did you get? A pink slip.'')
 Overseas, there was nobody, from Paris to Peshawar, who woke up Friday more disposed to work with the United States because of the Nobel committee's decision -- and plenty of more seasoned statesman who woke up laughing. (Vladimir Putin probably hasn't snickered this much since John McCain tried to persuade Americans that ''we are all Georgians'' during last year's weeklong war.)
 Meanwhile, the prize makes every foreign-policy problem Obama faces seem ever so slightly more burdensome. Now he's the Nobel laureate who has to choose between escalating a counterinsurgency in Afghanistan or ceding ground to a theocratic mafia. He's the Nobel laureate who'll either have to authorize military strikes against Iran or construct an effective, cold-war-style deterrence system for the Middle East. He's the Nobel laureate who'll probably fail, like every U.S. president before him, to prod Israelis and Palestinians toward a comprehensive settlement.
 At the same time, the prize leaves Obama more open to ridicule. It confirms, as a defining narrative of his presidency, the gap between his supporters' cloud-cuckoo-land expectations and the inevitable disappointments of reality. It dovetails perfectly with the recent ''Saturday Night Live'' sketch in which he was depicted boasting about a year's worth of nonaccomplishments. And it revives and ratifies John McCain's only successful campaign gambit -- his portrayal of Obama as ''the world's biggest celebrity,'' famous more for being famous than for any concrete political accomplishment.
 Great achievements may still await our Nobel president. If Obama goes from strength to strength, then this travesty will be remembered as a footnote to his administration, rather than a defining moment. 
 But by accepting the prize, he's made failure, if and when it comes, that much more embarrassing and difficult to bear. What's more, he's etched in stone the phrase with which critics will dismiss his presidency.
 Slick Willie. Tricky Dick. Jimmy ''Malaise'' Carter. Dubya the Incompetent.
 And now Barack Obama, Nobel laureate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); RELIGION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (54%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); NORWAY (71%); AFRICA (68%); VIET NAM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



340 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: 2 State Races May Put Lens On President

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: LEESBURG, Va. 

 BODY:
When President Obama captured the White House nearly a year ago, his victory in Virginia was, for many Democrats, one of the most heartening moments of the night. 
 He was the first Democratic presidential candidate to win this state since 1964, assembling a coalition -- independent voters, economically distressed rural Democrats and blacks -- that his party saw as evidence that it could take and hold Republican-leaning areas across the nation.
 But things are different today. At a time when Mr. Obama's national approval ratings have declined, a Democratic candidate for governor, R. Creigh Deeds, is struggling to keep Virginia in the Democratic column. 
 The strong sentiment against George W. Bush that reverberated throughout this state one year ago has dissipated; Mr. Obama's policies have become a flash point for Mr. Deeds's Republican opponent, Robert F. McDonnell, who has used it to draw independents to his camp. 
 There are two big elections in 2009 -- the contest for governor here and one in New Jersey where Gov. Jon Corzine, a Democrat, is struggling to survive in a spirited three-way race. 
 Off-year elections are prone to overinterpretation, and governor's races tend to be determined by the quality of the candidates and local issues rather than national politics; overcrowded highways are the biggest topic this year in Virginia. 
 For all that, Virginia, a laboratory for many of the ways Mr. Obama tried to change the ideological appeal and tactics of his party, is looming as an early if imprecise test of this president and his policies. 
 It is measuring the ability of Mr. Obama to build a coalition and hold it together during tough political battles in Washington. It could be an early gauge of whether Mr. Obama and his party have now taken political ownership of the rising unemployment rate and the continued sense of economic anxiety that he used a year ago to the advantage of Democrats. Most ominously, it is signaling the problem Democrats might have in the midterm Congressional elections next year with independent voters, upset with Mr. Obama over increasing deficits and his advocacy of big-government programs.
 A White House that has shown no hesitation to delve into state races -- Mr. Obama is planning to make at least one more trip to New Jersey on behalf of Mr. Corzine, aides said -- has been struggling to figure out how to deal with Virginia. Mr. Deeds's aides have pleaded with the White House to send Mr. Obama into the state; it has yet to agree.
 ''The most precious commodity we have is the president's time, and we have to appropriate it on a rational basis between now and Election Day,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama.
 Their apprehension was underscored on Friday after The Washington Post published a poll showing that Mr. McDonnell's lead over Mr. Deeds had expanded in recent weeks to nine percentage points, 53 percent to 44 percent. A month earlier, Mr. McDonnell had led by 4 points. 
 Among independent voters, Mr. Deeds trailed Mr. McDonnell by 21 points in a recent poll.
 Mr. Obama's advisers argued that it would be a mistake to draw any national lessons from Virginia. Democrats won races for governor in both Virginia and New Jersey in 2001, and Mr. Bush went on to win re-election easily in 2004. And for more than 30 years, the party that has won the White House has in the following year lost the Virginia governor's seat.
 ''I would just hesitate to make sweeping judgments about what does this mean in the here and now in terms of health care, and also the 2010 Congressional races in both states and the 2012 presidential election,'' said David Plouffe, who was Mr. Obama's campaign manager.
 But Mr. McDonnell said in an interview that one reason he was doing so well was that Mr. Deeds was paying a price for what Democrats were doing in Washington.
 ''There are blocs of independent voters that are being driven over -- or inclined to support me -- because they are very concerned about these federal policies: its spending and the new intrusions into the free enterprise system,'' Mr. McDonnell said. ''Those voters probably leaned toward President Obama in the last cycle. But when voters see specifics -- cap and trade, card check, unfunded mandates -- I think some bloc of voters said, 'This is not the change we thought we are getting, and because we are fiscally conservative, we are going to take another look at the Republican candidate for governor.' ''
 Nick Ayres, the executive director of the Republican Governors Association, which has spent over $5 million here to try to put Virginia back in the Republican column, said Mr. Obama and his party would certainly suffer damage should Mr. Deeds lose. ''This is a state that Obama won by seven points,'' he said, adding: ''They don't want this to be their Olympics Part II.''
 In New Jersey, Mr. Corzine is struggling in his bid for re-election against Christopher J. Christie. A Democratic loss there would be an embarrassment for this White House and provide a jolt of energy to a Republican Party at a crucial time, as it is recruiting candidates and raising money for the midterm elections. Republicans in 1993 won the governors' races in New Jersey and Virginia and went on to capture Congress in 1994.
 However, because of Mr. Corzine's deep unpopularity in that state, it is not as clear that a Democratic defeat there would offer lessons that go beyond New Jersey.
 In Virginia, Mr. Deeds has made efforts to put some distance between himself and Mr. Obama, including saying he was not an Obama Democrat. In an interview, he said his difficulties to date were the result of the tough economy. The current governor, Tim Kaine, is a Democrat who is barred from seeking re-election because of term limits.
 ''Right now, the economy is in tough shape, and they are seeing these elections through those lenses,'' Mr. Deeds said. ''People are concerned about the economy, and that is our headwind.''
 Still, Mr. Deeds seems ambivalent about the president, inviting him to campaign here even as he places at least some of the blame for his troubles on what Democrats are doing in Washington.
 Mr. Deeds said that Democrats should not be overly confident about Virginia and suggested that in some ways, Mr. Obama had enjoyed a unique success, given his particular appeal.
 ''With so much economic turmoil, Barack Obama was a hope agent,'' he said. ''He's a leader and dealer in hope. A merchant of hope.'' 
 ''He was here once, and I expect him to come back again,'' Mr. Deeds said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the Virginia governor's race, Robert F. McDonnell, center, a Republican, has widened his lead over R. Creigh Deeds, below. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JON CORZINE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



341 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Think About the Grandkids

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
One of the troubling dynamics behind President Obama's attempt to overhaul the health care system is the way it has cut along demographic lines. According to a poll by The New York Times and CBS News last month, only 20 percent of people 65 and over support the president's efforts. Only 31 percent say the federal government should guarantee health insurance for all Americans. 
 The elderly, of course, are already covered by government-run health insurance. The president's plan offers them little. It might even trim some Medicare expenditures. But their opposition to the expansion of health insurance does make me wonder: what about the grandchildren?
 People of parenting age are more enthusiastic about universal health care: 59 percent of those aged 18 to 44 support the government's guaranteeing health insurance for all. And though ambivalent, 29 percent support the president's plans.
 This political arithmetic led Tyler Cowen, a blogger and professor of economics at George Mason University, to wonder whether the passage of Medicare in 1965 wasn't a tactical mistake that doomed broader health reform. ''The way to get things done in this country, politically, is to get old people behind them,'' Mr. Cowen wrote.
 The age gap sheds light on a deep generational inequity. In the United States, as in most industrial countries, government spending skews heavily in favor of the old. Social spending on the elderly amounted to $19,700 per person in 2000, according to one study; children got $6,380. 
 Under President George W. Bush, the elderly got the Medicare prescription drug benefit, which is expected to cost nearly $1 trillion over the next 10 years. Low-income children under 18 got an expansion of S-chip, the health insurance plan. But even though the program cost only $55 billion over five years, Republican opposition almost killed the legislation. 
 One might be tempted to think the spending imbalance reflects a difference in needs. After all, the elderly tend to get sick more and require expensive medical treatment. 
 But children could do with more help too. The percentage of the elderly living under the poverty line dropped from 28.5 percent in 1966 to 9.7 percent last year. For those under 18, the incidence of poverty rose from 17.6 percent to 19 percent. 
 The share of resources devoted to the old versus the young is a function of their relative political clout. People 65 and up account for 12.8 percent of the population. But they accounted for one-fifth of the vote in November 2008. Nearly a quarter of all Americans are under 18. They don't get to vote at all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AGING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); PARENTING (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



342 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Reaffirms U.S. Ties With Britain and Ireland

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: DUBLIN 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton tried to buck up a pair of stalwart American allies on Sunday, assuring the British that they still had a special relationship with the United States, and telling the Irish that she would help them keep Northern Ireland's peace process on track.
 Northern Ireland, while mostly tranquil, has flared up in recent months, with a few violent episodes, including the shooting of two British soldiers, and a dispute within the Northern Irish coalition government over the transfer of the police and justice functions from London to Belfast. 
 ''Clearly there are questions and some apprehensions,'' Mrs. Clinton said before meeting with Prime Minister Brian Cowen of Ireland at his residence here. ''But I believe that due to the concerted effort of the British government, the Irish government, the support of friends like us in the United States, that the parties understand that this is a step they must take together.''
 The cause of peace got a lift from another source on Sunday, when the Irish National Liberation Army, a once-feared splinter group of the Irish Republican Army, said it would renounce violence and suggested it might soon relinquish its weapons to disarmament officials.
 The group, founded in 1974, had receded into obscurity in recent years after having declared a cease-fire in 1998. But it has been involved in sporadic killings of members of rival criminal gangs. In its heyday during the violent era known as the Troubles, officials said it was responsible for more than 110 deaths.
 The decision, announced at the group's annual parade in Dublin, was not linked to Mrs. Clinton's visit to Ireland. Yet it offered a hopeful backdrop at a time when Northern Ireland seems once again on edge. Last March, two British soldiers were shot to death in their barracks in the town of Antrim; a few days later, a Northern Ireland police constable was killed while on duty in Craigavon, in County Armagh. 
 Mrs. Clinton said these crimes were a throwback to a darker time and would not get in the way of the peace process. ''To me, terrorism is terrorism,'' she said in London. ''Those who would try to disrupt the peace of people going about their daily lives are out of step and out of time.''
 She planned to spend Monday in Belfast, where she will be the first high-ranking foreign government official invited to speak before Northern Ireland's assembly. Mrs. Clinton is accompanied on the trip by the Obama administration's economic envoy to Northern Ireland, Declan Kelly, who will seek to drum up business for American companies there.
 Earlier, in London, Mrs. Clinton took pains to reaffirm the ''special relationship'' between the United States and Britain. Relations have been strained by Scotland's decision to release the only person convicted in the Lockerbie bombing, and British papers were full of stories that Prime Minister Gordon Brown could not get a one-on-one meeting last month with President Obama at the United Nations and at an economic summit meeting in Pittsburgh.
 Giving Mr. Brown a warm hug before a meeting at Chequers, his country retreat, Mrs. Clinton said, ''I have a special personal relationship with the prime minister, and of course, I don't think it can be said often enough, we have a special relationship between our two countries.''
 Mrs. Clinton briefed the foreign secretary, David Miliband, about the Obama administration's debate over Afghanistan policy. He said that for all the discussion over sending additional troops, both in Britain and in the United States, the civilian rebuilding effort needed just as much focus.
 Mrs. Clinton reiterated that Britain was a critical partner in Afghanistan and on negotiations with Iran, where Mr. Miliband has taken a prominent role.
 While the message was warm, Mrs. Clinton saved her charm offensive for the streets of Dublin. She took a stroll on the city's famous shopping thoroughfare, Grafton Street, stopping for a coffee at Bewley's and a half-pint of Harp lager at a pub, McDaids. She was accompanied by the new United States ambassador to Ireland, Daniel Rooney.
 ''You're looking good,'' said a patron, Flan Neylon, without missing a beat, as Mrs. Clinton walked up to the pub. ''You look better in the flesh,'' said Anne Hanrahan, sitting on the next barstool.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton met Sunday with Prime Minister Brian Cowen of Ireland in Dublin. She said she would help keep Northern Ireland's peace process on track.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER MUHLY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); SHOOTINGS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (67%); PARADES & MARCHES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: IRISH NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BRIAN COWEN (68%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); NORTHERN IRELAND (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (95%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



343 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Independent Candidate Stirs Up the Governor's Race in New Jersey

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
Christopher J. Daggett had the crowd on its feet. 
 Well, it was a bar, there were not many seats, and the crowd was only about 50 people. But they were devoted Democrats in a bastion of New Jersey's Democratic machine. And Mr. Daggett, the independent candidate for governor, was winning them over.
 While the Democratic governor, Jon S. Corzine, and the Republican candidate, Christopher J. Christie, appear to be turning off voters with nasty ads and personal attacks, Mr. Daggett is turning them on -- or at least persuading them to give him a closer look. After he showed up his rivals in the first debate, his campaign is causing concern in both parties. His plan to cut property taxes is getting attention. His poll numbers are climbing. And on Sunday, he won a rousing endorsement from New Jersey's largest and most influential newspaper, The Star-Ledger of Newark.
 Breaking from his wonkish, occasionally witty but mostly sober delivery, Mr. Daggett, 59, is telling audiences it is time to think the unthinkable: that a vote for him might not be wasted. 
 ''It's like the '73 Mets,'' he says. ''Ya gotta believe!''
 Cinderella stories do not get much more improbable, and Mr. Daggett is far more likely to play the role of spoiler than to pull off an upset. Even with matching funds, he has spent only $1 million, compared with $16.8 million by the governor and $5.4 million by Mr. Christie. He has never run for office and has no organization or political base. And he last enjoyed regular news coverage as Gov. Thomas H. Kean's environmental protection commissioner before some of today's voters were born.
 Yet Mr. Daggett's dry talk of substance has filled an enormous vacuum. Mr. Corzine, elected on a promise to use his Wall Street savvy to fix the state's fiscal problems, instead swung and missed on several big initiatives before seeing his popularity plummet with the state's economy. And he has spent his energy and millions trying to poison Mr. Christie's image among voters, rather than talking about his agenda for a second term. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Christie squandered a huge advantage in the polls by refusing to say how he would fix the state's vexing problems, apparently miscalculating that his take-no-prisoners record as a corruption prosecutor would be enough against such a damaged incumbent.
 Indeed, Mr. Daggett's rivals have said so little about how they would tackle New Jersey's taxes, deficits and unemployment that Mr. Daggett is being greeted at times like a Jimmy Stewart character in a Frank Capra film.
 Mary Jean Chryek, 54, a Democrat, said that Mr. Corzine was a failure and Mr. Christie only wanted to ''tear other people down,'' but that Mr. Daggett, whom she had not heard of before the Oct. 1 debate, was different.
 ''He's a man with a plan, and he's willing to divulge it,'' she said, minutes after requesting four of his campaign signs to display at her corner house in the Heights section of Jersey City.
 Mr. Daggett's big idea is to kill off a sacred cow of Trenton: rebate checks intended to relieve the choking property-tax burden in New Jersey's 566 municipalities that now exceeds income, sales and corporate taxes combined. For years, income taxes have been redistributed back to homeowners each year. But last year's Wall Street troubles forced deep cuts in the rebates.
 Instead, he would offer direct property-tax credits of 25 percent, up to $2,500, per homeowner -- with a catch: If a town's budget grew faster than inflation, residents would lose their credits. He says this would cap local spending once and for all. To pay for the credits, he would extend the 7 percent sales tax to services provided by lawyers, accountants and architects, which he says are mainly used by upper-income earners.
 What makes his plan attractive on the stump could render it dead on arrival in Trenton, where many legislators are lawyers and no special interest wields as much power as public-sector unions, which would have much to lose from local spending caps.
 But Mr. Daggett is undeterred. As the top regional Environmental Protection Agency official in 1985, he recalls standing up to his Reagan administration bosses and local leaders -- including a furious Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York -- by bringing a halt to Westway, a plan for an underground West Side Highway in Manhattan, because it threatened striped bass in the Hudson River.
 He says his specialty is solving thorny problems by getting people on all sides to set aside emotions and agree on facts. Last year, he led a task force of developers, environmentalists and other warring forces who produced 91 unanimous recommendations for fixing New Jersey's Department of Environmental Protection -- and issued a report containing a none-too-subtle rebuke of Mr. Corzine, who had appointed him.
 It was Governor Kean who first brought Mr. Daggett into government in 1982 as his deputy chief of staff and encouraged him to begin thinking about an independent candidacy several years ago, Mr. Daggett says. But it was the task force's work that showed him ''how broken state government was under Jon Corzine'' and convinced him to run, said Jeffrey Tittel, state director of the Sierra Club, who sat on the panel and endorsed him last month.
 Mr. Daggett first broke through a month ago with TV ads using look-alikes to lampoon Mr. Corzine and Mr. Christie, and he has begun putting those spots on the air again, though infrequently. He asks voters to take a leap of faith, saying he needs only 34 percent of the vote in a three-way race. He says that voters are stuck picking the lesser of two evils, and that he is the kind of positive candidate they can get behind.
 Yet he is not all sweetness and light. He scorns Mr. Christie's personality, saying the Republican is arrogant and intellectually dishonest, ''treating the voters as though they aren't smart enough to know'' that his campaign promises are impossible to meet.
 Mr. Daggett finds the governor personally likeable, he says, but entirely unsuited for his job. ''I spent six years at an investment firm,'' he said. ''Wall Street guys are terrific people, but you can never ask them to manage anything. He's not comfortable bringing people together, and he doesn't have the patience to go back and forth making public policy. And there's an unwillingness to really fight for what he believes in.''
 Pollsters say Mr. Daggett is hurting Mr. Christie more, by siphoning off anti-incumbent voters. And some talk-radio hosts are asking if he is not a stalking horse for Mr. Corzine. But in a sign of his rising stature, opposition researchers from both parties have begun sifting through Mr. Daggett's business dealings.
 There is plenty to comb through: As a developer of so-called brownfields for the past 13 years, Mr. Daggett has been trying to profit heavily from some of New Jersey's biggest cleanup sites, including an old chromium plant in Jersey City where his efforts have met fierce resistance and charges of political deal-making.
 But Mr. Daggett says he welcomes the scrutiny. And anyone counting on him to quit the race might consider a memo that surfaced after his rejection of Westway a quarter century ago. Despite considerable pressure, an E.P.A. official advised the agency's boss in Washington, ''it doesn't appear that Daggett has gotten the message.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher J. Daggett, at the Embankment restaurant in Jersey City, is drawing attention for his plan to cut property taxes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); CORRUPTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



344 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Just Say No

 BODY:
Indian nuclear scientists are trying to bully their government into testing a nuclear weapon. That would be a huge setback -- for India's relations with Washington, for the battle against terrorists, and for global efforts to halt the spread of nuclear weapons. 
 Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is resisting. He must continue to resist. 
 If India tests, the United States is bound by a 2008 agreement to cut off all sales of nuclear fuel and technology. That would be a huge setback to India's plans to expand its nuclear power generation and its economy. 
 We fear that if India tests, Pakistan will decide that it has to test. That would raise tensions between the two longtime rivals, and it would further distract Islamabad and its generals from the far more important battle against the Taliban and other extremists inside their country and along their border with Afghanistan. 
 Congress recently approved a five-year, $7.5 billion aid package to strengthen civilian rule in Pakistan and encourage the fight against extremists. There would be strong pressure to cut that aid if Pakistan tested. And if India and Pakistan test (China also may be unable to resist), it could make it even harder for President Obama to persuade the Senate to ratify the test ban treaty. 
 India (followed by Pakistan) last conducted nuclear tests in 1998. Since then, there have been hints that it might test again. In recent weeks, the debate took on a new urgency when some former top nuclear scientists made the case publicly. K. Santhanam, a director for the 1998 test-site preparations, claimed those tests did not yield the desired results and were a ''fizzle.''
 One has to wonder why he waited 11 years to raise the alarm. We suspect that Mr. Santhanam and his colleagues are worried that if Washington finally ratifies the treaty, India may feel compelled to sign on. 
 The treaty's appeal is undeniable. Some 182 nations have signed it and 150 have ratified it. It limits the ability of nuclear states to field fancier warheads and makes it harder for nuclear wannabes to develop weapons. 
 But it cannot enter into force until nine key states -- including the United States, China and India -- also ratify. Mr. Obama has pledged to work for Senate ratification and urged all other holdouts to do so. 
 So far, New Delhi does not seem to be taking Mr. Santhanam's bait. ''India does not need to carry any more nuclear tests,'' the Indian Atomic Energy Commission chairman, Anil Kakodkar, said last month. He insisted that his agency has confidence in its ability to get the weapons data it needs by conducting simulated tests. He should keep insisting.
 The United States should make clear that India has more to gain by focusing on economic growth and expanding global cooperation than on developing more nuclear weapons. And it should leave no doubt about how much India and the rest of the world have to lose if New Delhi makes the wrong choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TALIBAN (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); APPROVALS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (59%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



345 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Must Attack To Win in 2010, Strategists Say

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
New Jersey Republicans complain that Gov. Jon Corzine, a Democrat, has turned nasty to gain ground in his re-election bid this year. Republicans elsewhere should brace themselves.
 That is because Mr. Corzine's strategy for a comeback victory has turned into a template for Democratic candidates to survive in the 2010 midterm elections. Its shorthand description: winning ugly.
 Now that Democrats control the White House, Congress and most governorships, voters' discontent with the status quo represents their burden, which has Democratic strategists considering tactics to push back challengers. 
 ''Very often the instinct for an incumbent party is to defend and justify,'' said Geoff Garin, a pollster for Democratic candidates. ''But in this kind of environment, the best defense is a good offense. This needs to be a cycle where Republican vulnerabilities are a central part of the debate.''
 Charlie Cook, the nonpartisan political handicapper, framed the Democrats' challenge for 2010 more bluntly. It does not track the genial, new-politics identity that President Obama has cultivated.
 ''They're going to have to play really rough,'' said Mr. Cook, who pegs Democrats' chances for holding the House next year at only slightly better than even. ''For the average Democratic Congressional incumbent, the opposition researcher will be the most important person in the campaign.''
 The Seats Up for Grabs
 By Mr. Cook's assessment, Democrats currently have 28 House seats in jeopardy to the Republicans' 14; 7 Senate seats to Republicans' 6; 13 governorships to Republicans' 9. And he sees the nation's continuing economic struggles turning the political environment darker, not brighter.
 In last month's New York Times/CBS News Poll, nearly 8 in 10 Americans rated the economy as fairly or very bad. That is only a modest improvement from a year ago. 
 The fallout for Democratic Congressional candidates is clear. In a recent Gallup survey, independent voters preferred Republican candidates for Congress by 45 percent to 36 percent; last October, they favored Democratic candidates 46 percent to 39 percent.
 Republicans have worked overtime to block Mr. Obama's proposed solutions on the economy and health care, as became clear last week after the Congressional Budget Office declared that the Senate Finance Committee's proposal would reduce the budget deficit. Instead of crediting Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, the committee chairman, with meeting a main Republican objective, the minority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said ''the real bill will be written by Democrat leaders in a closed-to-the-public conference room.''
 Democrats consider such opposition a target itself. ''The public sees the Republican Party as being completely obstructionist,'' Mr. Garin said.
 Moreover, the White House counts on lingering distaste for President George W. Bush's eight-year administration to help insulate Mr. Obama and his party from today's economic discontent. The question is whether that insulation will prove enough to prevent major Democratic losses next fall.
 On the Offensive in Two States
 In Virginia's off-year governor's race, the Democratic candidate, R. Creigh Deeds, has homed in on an old academic paper by his Republican opponent, Robert F. McDonnell, to cast Mr. McDonnell as a right-wing radical on social issues. Mr. Deeds still trails substantially in a state where Democrats have won recent elections for senator and governor. 
 Mr. Corzine has made more headway -- and gotten even more personal -- in New Jersey's close race for governor. He has mocked his heavy-set Republican opponent, Christopher J. Christie, in an advertisement that claimed Mr. Christie ''threw his weight around'' to avoid traffic tickets.
 Considering the electorate's sour mood, Mr. Garin said, ''it would border on malpractice'' for an embattled incumbent like Mr. Corzine not to attack his Republican challenger aggressively.
 Playing Down the Issues
 Few Democrats next year will be able to match the overwhelming campaign spending advantage enjoyed by Mr. Corzine, a wealthy former Wall Street executive. On the other hand, party strategists hope that economic anxiety will ease next year if Washington acts on health care and energy legislation, both of which Mr. Obama calls vital to long-term economic growth.
 But Mr. Cook argues that voters will continue to see those initiatives as diversions from immediate concerns over high unemployment. For Democrats to win competitive races next year, he said, ''the key thing is to disqualify your opponent on a very personal, individual level.''
 That is no surprise to Republicans, who tried similar tactics in 2006 and 2008, with only limited success.
 Democrats will ''have to make the opponent the issue,'' said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster. ''No. 1, try to tie them to George W. Bush -- and then make it personal after that.
 ''I don't blame them, but our guys are going to be ready for that,'' Mr. Newhouse concluded. ''Democrats are going to be using our playbook.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



346 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
Bond markets are closed Monday for Columbus Day. The Treasury's schedule of financing this week include an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. The regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills will take place on Thursday. . 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.06 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.15 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.02 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 WEDNESDAY
 Delaware, $170 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Fairfax County, Va., $265.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Washington State, $875.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 THURSDAY
 Arlington County, Va., $167.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 California Statewide Communities Development Authority, $136.8 million of revenue bonds for John Muir Health. Morgan Stanley.
 City of Atlanta, $433.4 million of water and wastewater revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Colton, Calif., Joint Unified School District, $50 million of general obligation bonds for San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. RBC Capital Markets.
 Houston Independent School District, $276.9 million of limited tax general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 Houston Independent School District, Harris County, $128.2 million of limited schoolhouse bonds for Build America Bonds-Direct Pay to Issuer. RBC Capital Markets.
 Lycoming County, Pa., Authority, $172 million of health system revenue bonds for Susquehanna Health System Project. Barclays Capital.
 Maple Heights, Ohio, City School District, $55.7 million of general obligation unlimited tax school facilities improvement bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus.
 Mississippi, $120 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Mississippi, $98.3 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds 2009G. Morgan Keegan.
 Mississippi, $64.1 million of unlimited tax general obligation refinancing bonds 2009F (tax-exempt). Morgan Keegan.
 Montgomery County, Pa., Higher Education and Health Authority, $148.2 million of hospital revenue bonds for Abington Memorial Hospital Obligated Group. Goldman Sachs.
 Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, $370 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $209.7 million of water facilities refinancing revenue bonds for New Jersey American Water Company. Morgan Stanley.
 New York City Transitional Finance Authority, $800 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 New York City Transitional Finance Authority, $81 million of New York City recovery bonds fiscal 2003 subseries 3B-1. Goldman Sachs.
 Ohio Housing Finance Agency, $75 million of residential revenue bonds for mortgage-backed securities program. Barclays Capital.
 Ohio Housing Finance Authority, $50 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 South Broward, Fla., Hospital District, $150 million of hospital revenue bonds for South Broward Hospital District Obligated Group. Goldman Sachs.
 State of Mississippi, $340.4 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 State of Washington, $500 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Tarrant County, Texas Cultural Education Facilities Finance Corporation, $164.9 million of retirement facility revenue bonds for Tarrant County Senior Living Center. Ziegler Capital Markets.
 Torrance, Calif., Unified School District, $56 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 University of Alabama, $135.8 million of debt securities. Morgan Keegan.
 University of Massachusetts Building Authority, $524 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (97%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); HOSPITALS (87%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (87%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (72%); SCHOOL BONDS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (63%); NEW JERSEY-AMERICAN WATER CO (63%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (55%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (63%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (63%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009



347 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Luring Artists to Lend Life to Empty Storefronts

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
At the end of a dark passageway at the Port Authority Bus Terminal, almost 50 artworks have suddenly parked in a bright, spare gallery. On a grim stretch of the Flatbush Avenue Extension in Brooklyn, pastel portraits and interactive sculptures are squeezed between a McDonald's and an Applebee's. In the window of a former dentist's office in downtown Jamaica, Queens, a clutch of faceless mannequins cradle various forms of roadkill. 
 The art may vary in style and shock value, but the settings are essentially the same -- spaces donated or leased for a song by building owners unable to rent or develop them. 
 As the recession drags on and storefronts across New York remain empty, commercial landlords are turning to an unlikely new class of tenants: artists, who in flusher times tend to get pushed out rather than lured in. And the price of entry is not deep pockets, but vivid imaginations and splashy exhibits -- anything to lend the darkened buildings a sense of life. 
 On terms that are cut-rate and usually temporary -- a few weeks or months -- the artist gets a gallery or studio, and the landlord gets a vibrant attraction that may deter crime and draw the next wave of paying tenants.
 ''Any sort of activity is better than no activity,'' said Jed Walentas, a Brooklyn developer whose company, Two Trees Management, routinely lends space in Dumbo and Downtown Brooklyn for art projects. ''As long as it's short enough and it's flexible, then there's no real cost. So the question is who can you find that's going to make an investment in a space with that level of uncertainty, and often it's the artist.''
 These ''pop-up galleries,'' as they are known in Britain, where the phenomenon is well established, are increasingly taking hold in New York as development advocates and landlords struggle to keep up appearances where commerce and construction have stalled. 
 The demand among landlords is so high that Chashama, a group that has been working for almost 15 years to find vacant real estate for visual and performing artists, no longer has to go looking. Its founder, Anita Durst, said she got calls every day from landlords asking her to find art projects for them. Some even offer to cover basic expenses like electricity.
 Chashama was enlisted to find artists for the former dentist's office and another vacant space by the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, one of several business groups working to bring artists and landlords together. 
 An exhibit that opened on Wednesday and will run for four months in six empty storefronts on the Flatbush Avenue Extension near DeKalb Avenue is a collaboration between the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership and the New Art Dealers Alliance, a contemporary art association. A few blocks away, the MetroTech Business Improvement District approached Ad Hoc Art, which promotes street, pop and underground artists, to organize a similar installation on Willoughby Street that will run through Nov. 4.
 At the Port Authority terminal, where a 2,500-square-foot retail space at West 41st Street and Eighth Avenue has gone unrented while a development deal remains in limbo, executives have relied on the Fashion Center Business Improvement District and the Times Square Alliance to bring in a series of pop-up tenants, including fashion designers and, in a show that opened on Thursday, artists working in a range of media.
 The sudden glut of available space has even spawned a new player in the art world.
 No Longer Empty, an outfit formed by a group of established curators about five months ago in response to the recession-fueled vacancies, has staged several exhibitions and events. One opened the weekend of Oct. 3 at a former belt factory in Brooklyn that once made ''invisible dog'' novelty leashes, and another installation is planned for the empty Tower Records store at East Fourth Street and Broadway in Manhattan.
 ''I really do think it's something that's here to stay,'' said Manon Slome, a founder of the group. ''I obviously hope the economic crisis will be over, but I see it as a great way for the public to interact with art in a different way. And it does provide a great platform for artists because they can do things that are maybe more experimental or larger than they could in a gallery space.''
 Lishan Chang, an environmental artist who secured studio space in the former dentist's office in Jamaica, said the storefront was perfect for his current project, ''Accident Realm,'' which features the dead raccoons, hawks, opossums, skunks and other creatures he finds along highways. 
 ''I need a large sink when I do my taxidermy, and this office has a large sink,'' said Mr. Chang, who learned to preserve the carcasses at the National Taiwan University and on YouTube. ''I use chemicals and dentists use chemicals, so it fits.''
 For neighborhoods, windows filled with stencils or weavings rather than brown paper and ''for rent'' signs have been a marked improvement.
 ''The lights are always on, the artists come and go late at night, and it's even had more of an impact in activating the street than we anticipated,'' said Andrew M. Manshel of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation. As the redevelopment of the area continues, he said, he will work to find a way for the artists to have more permanent space.
 The shows have played well with the locals. Passers-by and workers say they like having something different to look at and a chance to talk with the artists. On 161st Street in Jamaica one afternoon, two barbers from the block said they appreciated how accessible the artists had been.
 ''The first time they were there, they welcomed anybody, it was free and on the way out they gave you a little wine, they had food,'' said one barber from the Haircutter shop, who gave his name as Junior. ''It's great.''
 His co-worker, James Tucker, said it was ''different, cultural-wise,'' saying that he liked some of the artwork but that he found Mr. Chang's roadkill project ''really creepy.'' Junior added, laughing, ''He should do a Halloween thing with that.''
 Two weekends ago on the Flatbush Avenue Extension near the Fulton Mall, Kenny Scharf, a psychedelic painter and performance artist, spray-painted what he described as ''a big red monster mean guy being parasitically sucked on by some yellow guys'' for a group show concentrating on large-scale works. As he worked, people stopped by to ask what he was doing and snap pictures with their cellphones.
 ''I really like that,'' said Demetria Hayes, who was waiting for the bus outside the impromptu gallery. ''He could do a lot with that.'' 
 Ms. Hayes, who is pregnant, stood outside to escape the spray-paint fumes while her daughter, Danisia Peterson, 12, who likes to draw faces, chatted with Mr. Scharf inside and watched him work. 
 ''A lot of people, especially kids, like to work like that through art,'' Ms. Hayes said, ''and to show how easy it is to just draw on the wall hopefully shows them they can do it and be creative, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kenny Scharf working on his ''big red monster mean guy'' as part of a group show in empty storefronts on the Flatbush Avenue Extension in Brooklyn.
 A storefront on the Flatbush Avenue Extension with pastels by Renaldo Rii.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ART DEALERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



348 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Parnas-Serkin Trio: A Sister Act With a Mentor At the Piano

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

 BODY:
The Parnas-Serkin Trio embodies the ethos of the Marlboro Music Festival in Vermont, at which established musicians nurture, and perform with, their younger counterparts. The pianist Peter Serkin -- a son of the pianist Rudolf Serkin and grandson of the violinist Adolf Busch, two of the festival's founders -- is mentoring the violinist Madalyn Parnas and the cellist Cicely Parnas, teenage sisters who are themselves granddaughters of the noted cellist Leslie Parnas. 
 Mr. Serkin started coaching the Duo Parnas in 2007 and soon began playing chamber music with them in public, as he did on Saturday evening at Washington Irving High School, in a well-attended event in the Peoples' Symphony Concerts series, which offers brand-name soloists and ensembles at recession-proof prices at halls around the city.
The music making was professional and polished, though not particularly warm and lacking any distinguishing features. No doubt as the talented Parnas sisters gain more experience, they will become more convincing players. 
 The program opened with Beethoven's ''Ghost'' Trio, and the players captured the first movement's spirited air. In Ravel's Trio in A minor they aptly illuminated the colors of the vivacious finale, with Mr. Serkin playing his dynamic part with flair. Brahms's Trio No. 1 in B sounded less than cohesive, but Cicely Parnas had a chance to shine in the soulful cello solos, which she played expressively. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Parnas-Serkin Trio, featuring, from left, Madalyn Parnas, Cicely Parnas and Peter Serkin, performed Ravel, Beethoven and Brahms at Washington Irving High School.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



349 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 FEARING RETRIBUTION, 
 Journalists Flee Iran
 Dozens of reporters, photographers and bloggers have either fled Iran or are trying to flee the country. The wave of departures reflects journalists' anxiety over the retribution many of them have faced for reporting on the government's violent suppression of the post-election protests. PAGE A4
 41 KILLED IN PAKISTAN ATTACK
 Militants launched their fourth assault in a week on strategic targets across Pakistan, this time with a suicide car bombing against a military vehicle in a crowded market in the northwest, killing 41 people and wounding dozens more. PAGE A6 
 SCALING DOWN IN IRAQ
 By the end of October, American troop strength in Iraq will be 120,000, a decrease of 23,000 since January, the top United States military spokesman, Brig. Gen. Stephen R. Lanza, said on Monday. The next big reduction will not come until well after the national elections in January, he added. PAGE A8
 National
 WHITE HOUSE RESPONDS
 To Insurers' Report on Costs
 Obama administration officials and Congressional Democrats fired back at a new insurance industry report that said premiums would climb sharply with the passage of comprehensive health legislation. PAGE A18
 SORTING OUT A VAGUE LAW
 The ''honest services'' law makes it a crime ''to deprive another of the intangible right of honest services.'' If you can make sense of that phrase, you have achieved something that has so far eluded the nation's appeals courts. Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A17
 ILLNESSES LINKED TO DEFOLIANT
 Under rules to be proposed this week, the Department of Veterans Affairs plans to add Parkinson's disease, ischemic heart disease and hairy-cell leukemia to the growing list of illnesses that are presumed to have been caused by Agent Orange, the toxic defoliant used widely in Vietnam. PAGE A17
 BILL TO HONOR GAY ACTIVIST
 In a surprise reversal of his veto of the same bill last year, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a bill to set aside a day of recognition for Harvey Milk, the gay San Francisco politician who was assassinated in 1978. PAGE A23
 New York
 DRIVERS COPE WITH STICKERS THAT WILL NOT STAY IN PLACE
 As many as two million of the nine million vehicle registration stickers issued by the state's Department of Motor Vehicles this year do not stick. Two separate companies based in Chicago produced the stickers, and both failed to catch the defect, leaving many drivers across the state dealing with an outbreak of bad glue. PAGE A25
 Business
 BANK OF AMERICA TO DISCLOSE
 Legal Advice for Merger
 Bank of America's board of directors has voted to reveal the legal advice that the bank received late last year about its merger with Merrill Lynch. The documents may exonerate bank executives or they may provide the evidence that some investigators are seeking to lay blame at individuals' feet. Page B1
 DEADLINE ON SECRET ACCOUNTS
 Thursday is the deadline for Americans to come clean about any money they have hidden offshore, in places like Swiss bank accounts. The hoard may be tens of billions of dollars, and tax lawyers say they are being inundated by anxious clients. PAGE B1
 A TIGHTENING CREDIT VISE
 Many small and midsize American businesses are still struggling to secure bank loans, which has stymied their expansion plans and constraining overall economic growth. Page B1
 SEVERING SILICON VALLEY TIES
 Arthur D. Levinson, the former chief executive of Genentech, has resigned from Google's board, a move that severs another tie between Google and Apple. PAGE B3
 FEUD ON HOG-LABELING LAW
 Ratcheting up a trade dispute with the Obama administration, Canada is asking the World Trade Organization to rule against an American food-labeling law that it claims is helping to destroy much of its hog-farming industry. PAGE B3
 PLAN TO SELL CHUNNEL STAKE
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain proposed to sell a range of government-owned assets, including its share of the Channel Tunnel high-speed rail link that connects London to the Continent, to raise money to help plug the country's huge budget deficit. PAGE B3
 Sports
 OPPOSING LIMBAUGH'S BID
 To Buy N.F.L. Team
 Al Sharpton, the president of the National Action Network, urged the N.F.L.to deny conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh's potential bid to buy the St. Louis Rams. It is the latest indication of the brushfire Limbaugh's involvement in the bid has caused. PAGE B14
 GIVING SHOOTAROUND A REST
 The morning shootaround, a time-honored N.B.A. tradition, serves both as a means to prepare for the game and to give party-minded players an incentive to get to bed early. But Knicks Coach Mike D'Antoni is foregoing the ritual in the hopes that his team is more alert at game time. PAGE B15
 N.F.L. Fast Forward B13
 Arts
 RECOUNTING THE STREETS
 And His Life Till Here
 Lemon Andersen's one-man play ''County of Kings,'' is a memoir and a conventional show-biz fable. But Ben Brantley writes that Mr. Andersen invests the formula with a rapt love for words that is at least as strong as his love of hearing his own voice. PAGE C1
 TAKING A VIRTUAL MANHATTAN
 Jonathan Lethem's new novel, ''Chronic City,'' tries to create a kind of virtual-reality game version of Manhattan. Michiko Kakutani writes that it lacks the energy or keenly observed grittiness of the real-life Brooklyn that Lethem used as a setting in earlier works. PAGE C1
 Obituaries
 RICHARD W. SONNENFELDT, 86
 A refugee who fled Nazi Germany as a teenager, he later became the chief interpreter for American prosecutors at the Nuremberg war crimes trials and interrogated some of the most notorious Nazi leaders of World War II. PAGE B18
 STEPHEN GATELY, 33
 A singer with the Irish boy band Boyzone, he made headlines when he came out as gay a decade ago. The cause of his death was unclear, and an autopsy is expected on Tuesday. PAGE B17
 Science Times
 BUILING A BRIDGE
 Of (and to) the Future
 The Neal Bridge in Pittsfield, Me., is a modest bit of the nation's infrastructure, but its structure is potentially revolutionary: it is made of both composite materials and conventional ones like concrete, and could mark a breakthrough in the use of fiber-reinforced plastics on highways. PAGE D1
 PANDEMIC'S HIDDEN CULPRIT
 The 1918 flu epidemic was probably the deadliest plague in human history, but it now appears that a small number of the deaths may have been caused not by the virus, but by high doses of the drug used to treat it: aspirin. PAGE D5
 Recounting a Nobel Win D1
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A27
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); INSURANCE (75%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); VETO (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (68%); LGBT RIGHTS (67%); HEART DISEASE (64%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); LEUKEMIA (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



350 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: For a Gay Couple, the Cost of Heartbreak

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Costs of Being a Gay Couple Run Higher'' (''Your Money'' column, by Tara Siegel Bernard and Ron Lieber, front page, Oct. 3): 
 As your article illustrates, marriage in America is a complex legal contract that bestows rights and responsibilities at both state and federal levels of government. Thank you for taking this debate out of the religious and into the practical.
 My Indian partner's application for a new American visa was denied last month. She left the country last week, exiled from her job and our life, because same-sex state marriages are not eligible for federally administered immigration benefits. Infuriatingly, our marriage could disqualify my partner from getting a tourist, student or other nonimmigrant visa.
 This year, being gay has cost us $6,020 in legal fees and a one-way ticket to South Asia, not to mention heartbreak and unemployment. We should be spending this money on a wedding.
 Ella Spottswood Brooklyn, Oct. 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COHABITATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTHERN ASIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



351 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: The Lobbyists in the Health Care Fray

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I am decidedly disgusted with Congress's captivity by lobbying interests in the health care debate (''Lobbyists Fight Efforts to Save on Health Care,'' front page, Oct. 11). So much so, I wonder just who our nation's leadership is responding to as it continues to drag its feet on meaningful reform.
 A year ago, just before the national elections, some 96 percent of Americans viewed health care reform as a top priority for the next president. President Obama was voted in with a mandate for change, and a year later, nothing on health care reform has taken on real traction, and the odds that meaningful reform will pass this legislative session appear to be declining each passing day. 
 So, if the president has a clear mandate from voters, and his party controls both houses of Congress, what is the reason for the holdup?
 Simply, it seems to be lobbyists. Lobbyists for big business, lobbyists for big labor, lobbyists for big hospitals and drug companies and health professionals, among others.
 In a late-summer poll by Survey USA, 77 percent of Americans supported a public health care option. Is anybody in Washington listening?
 Who is speaking for the people against these wealthy and entrenched interests? Their fear-mongering and selfish blocking of health care reform will, if successful, lead to continued health-cost inflation, ultimately crippling all aspects of the economy. Robert M. Gordon
 Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your article about lobbyists is disheartening, but not surprising. It is a given that we cannot eliminate money from politics, so perhaps we should settle for leveling the playing field a little.
 I propose a tax on all fees paid to lobbyists and on all amounts lobbyists expend to lobby Congress. The money raised would go to finance a new, strictly nonpartisan Citizens' Lobby, which would perform its own research to determine the best policies to benefit the public interest. It would be allowed access to Congress equal to that accorded to corporate and moneyed interests.
 Otherwise, we, the citizens of the United States, have no ability to ensure that our interests are taken into consideration. The power of our individual votes pales in comparison to the flood of dollars for campaigns and lobbyists.
 Lorraine Parker
 Denver, Oct. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 It is extremely disappointing to see health care legislation succumb to the lobbyists and profit-seekers. Never has the dark side of the legislative process been so apparent and so contrary to the best interests of the average citizen. 
 Instead of a simple, straightforward solution to the problem of health insurance in this country, Congress is offering a complicated set of proposals that attempt to placate all the self-interest groups in Washington. The result is bloated legislation that does not even achieve the fundamental goal of universal coverage, much less a reduction in health care costs.
 Our politicians are apparently incapable of resolving the issue of health care coverage without shortchanging the American people. The best solution is to let the people themselves decide the issue by enacting a voluntary public option available to everyone. It should be a simple and progressive insurance program based on a person's income. Individuals can take it or leave it.
 The people, rather than the politicians, can then decide the issue of public versus private insurance. Ron Sheppe
 Rochester, N.H., Oct. 12, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Baucus Bill'' (editorial, Oct. 11):
 In analyzing the Baucus bill, you mention that none of the proposals include any solution to ''the relentless and rapid rise of medical spending'' for what you consider a ''very good reason: Nobody really knows what reforms would work.''
 But I can suggest at least these four:
 End our perverse ''fee for service'' method of reimbursement to providers.
 End or substantially weaken near monopolies in many states by insurance behemoths like Blue Cross.
 Introduce a solid public option to keep insurance companies honest and give consumers a meaningful choice.
 Allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices, just as Veterans Affairs does.
 This is not rocket science.
 Amit Sarkar
 Scarsdale, N.Y., Oct. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The problem with our system is that everyone -- doctors, hospitals, insurers, lawyers, drug companies and so on -- has ''a dog in the hunt.'' It seems that we select which group we favor based on how quickly it makes a deal, how many campaign contributions it makes or public sentiment at a given moment.
 As we are often reminded, sausage making is not pretty, but the result of the current negotiations is bound to make for an even worse solution.
 If any issue calls for a clean sheet of paper, it is health care. We need to reduce the amount we spend in each of these sectors, perhaps eliminate a sector or two from the process and develop a system that the American people can live with. The answers are intellectually easy, but politically difficult.
 Reform that favors select factions is not reform; rather, it is reshuffling the deck. Steve Swanson
 Glenwood Springs, Colo., Oct. 11, 2009
 The writer spent 30 years working in health care finance.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); LOBBYING (92%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



352 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Aid Places U.S. In the Midst Of a Divide

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
The new aid package for Pakistan passed by Congress last month -- a promise of $7.5 billion for civilian needs over the next five years -- has unwittingly thrust the United States into the center of the perennially uneasy relationship between Pakistan's powerful military and its weak civilian governments. 
 In this case, the United States stepped into the middle of what politicians describe as a deteriorating relationship between the head of the army, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, and President Asif Ali Zardari, by insisting on greater civilian oversight of the military as a condition of the aid. 
 With its economy in tatters, and a tenacious insurgency that last weekend breached the military headquarters outside the capital, Pakistan would seem more in need than ever of the kind of assistance Washington is offering. 
 Instead on Monday, virtually on orders from the military, the foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, was sent to Washington to tell American officials that Pakistan would not stand for being micromanaged. 
 Now it appears that the aid bill, rather than assisting Mr. Zardari and improving America's relations with Pakistan, threatens to undermine the president and lay bare the troubles at the heart of the two countries' alliance.
 In supporting Mr. Zardari at what appeared to be the expense of the military, the Americans hit a raw nerve, several Pakistani politicians said.
 General Kayani has made clear that he supports democracy in Pakistan, and that the military has no intention of overturning the civilian government, Pakistani politicians said.
 But what appears to be his distaste for the Zardari government is barely disguised. In the middle of the military headquarters siege, the general took a helicopter to the presidential palace Saturday to meet with the president, Mr. Qureshi and the prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani. Afterward, Mr. Qureshi was sent to Washington to tell the Obama administration that Pakistan had deep reservations about America's intentions.
 The military, no doubt, also has deep reservations about ceding powers it has long accumulated, and the perks that go with them, to an inexperienced government it criticizes for mismanagement of the crumbling economy. 
 ''The army is saying privately that despite everything, the army remains the one rigorous, merit-based institution in Pakistan, and if the politicians get their hands on promotions, that will be the end of it,'' said a member of Parliament, who declined to be named because he was not authorized to disclose military thinking.
 American and Pakistani officials who support the aid package voice increasing concern that critics of the bill are manufacturing a crisis to discredit and undermine the civilian government.
 The stipulations in the aid bill, they note, are no more onerous than those of past aid packages, including those on aid given during the eight-year rule of the previous government under Gen. Pervez Musharraf. At that time, the military raised no objections.
 What is more, the aid for civilian needs is in addition to more than $1 billion a year the United States already gives the army.
 ''This is a created crisis, by people who either haven't read the bill or don't want to describe it accurately, and whose goal is either to destabilize the government or challenge some of the Pakistani military's priorities,'' said Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat who leads the House Foreign Affairs Committee. 
 Mr. Zardari's spokesman, Farhatullah Babar, has been on Pakistani television, seeming at times a lone voice in defense of the legislation, charging that the fierce criticism of the American largess is intended as a direct hit at Mr. Zardari.
 The bill has also placed the Americans in the middle of a potential tussle between Mr. Zardari and General Kayani over future army leadership. The three-year tenure of General Kayani, with whom American commanders say they are enjoying an increasingly good relationship, ends in November 2010.
 Mr. Zardari might like to appoint his own general, Pakistani politicians say, though officials in the government say the president has yet to make any decision. It is believed that General Kayani would like an extension of tenure, unheard of in Pakistani military history for a general who has not served as president.
 But General Kayani has been riding high. The fact that 10 militants managed to raid a military intelligence building seemed only to strengthen the standing of the military in the eyes of the public and Pakistan's boisterous and patriotic talk shows. Questions about the soundness of the security at the military nerve center were offset by accolades for the commandos who rescued 39 hostages, some of them officers who had sat in a room with a suicide bomber for 20 hours.
 The army remains the country's most revered institution. Its prickliness over American intrusions dovetails neatly with a widespread feeling of anti-Americanism here that has not changed with the Obama administration.
 Surprisingly to the Americans, anger against the legislation has spread so widely that even civic leaders and lawyers who took to the streets two years ago against General Musharraf offered no vocal support for the American aid.
 ''Criticisms coming from outside affects the Pakistani ego,'' said Athar Minallah, a leader of the lawyers movement that eventually won reinstatement of the chief justice dismissed by General Musharraf, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. ''People ask: Why should this dictation come from the outside?''
 Pakistanis tend to have good memories, and view the up-and-down American record in Pakistan with deep distrust, a history that colors the current attitudes.
 The lawyers would seem to be a natural constituency to help generate support for the new civilian assistance. But under the Bush administration, Washington remained silent when the lawyers took on General Musharraf, and the lawyers feel little obligation to help Washington now.
 A common theme in the Parliament in the last few days has been to label the $1.5 billion a year as ''peanuts'' -- the same term used by the military dictator Gen. Muhammad Zia ul-Haq when he turned down $400 million from President Jimmy Carter. A year later, General Zia won a six-year, $3.2 billion package from President Ronald Reagan.
 But Washington has a good memory, too. American officials have not forgotten about the nuclear proliferation network once run from Pakistan, nor about support the country has given to terrorist groups that oppose India.
 But when it comes to Pakistan, Washington has had a tin ear, said Maleeha Lodhi, who served as the Pakistani ambassador to Washington at the time of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. ''The offending part of the legislation sets up the country as hired help and puts the military in the dock, presumed guilty on many counts and having to prove its innocence to Washington.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A meeting between President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan and the head of the army, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAKISTAN PRESS INFORMATION DEPARTMENT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



353 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SALVADOR JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Musician Changes Tone Of Impoverished Village

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: SALVADOR, Brazil 

 BODY:
From a veranda at Candyall Ghetto Square, a recording studio and rehearsal space for his percussion band Timbalada, the musician Carlinhos Brown appraised the contrasting worlds that define the neighborhood where he grew up. 
 An unfinished brick house stood to his left, all that its owner could afford to build. Behind him were the modest stucco homes that line a slope rechristened Bob Marley Street. By the soccer field down below was a row of shacks made of discarded wood. At the top of the hills that surround the area, the elegant high-rises that house the upper class in this city, the third largest in Brazil with about three million people. 
 ''Poverty is not an excuse for anything,'' Mr. Brown, 46, said on a recent gray afternoon here, his eyes shielded by a pair of oversize sunglasses. ''Poverty is an opportunity.'' 
 Mr. Brown -- a singer, songwriter and percussionist who is one of Brazil's best-known artists -- once made music banging on the water barrels that he used to carry home to his mother, who earned a living washing clothes. Back then, his neighborhood, Candeal Pequeno, or Little Candeal, had so many fruit trees that a kid would go hungry only if he could not climb.
 But as Salvador grew, Candeal (pronounced KAHN-djee-AHL), developed on what used to be a belt of tropical forest in the middle of the city, became so big so fast that it could no longer sustain itself. Sewage flowed openly on the streets where children played. Unpaved roads flooded when it rained, dumping mud, garbage and disease into homes. Illegal connections to the electric grid abounded, yet many of the houses went dark at night. 
 With money and prestige, Mr. Brown said, came the realization that to help his neighborhood, he would have to do more than write lyrics portraying its plight. 
 Fifteen years ago, he took a first step, founding a music school for children who were once like him: poor and short on hope, but full of dreams. He named it Pracatum, after the sound made by the hand drums used in percussion bands, instruments like the timbau and tan-tan.
 So began Candeal's profound transformation, made all the more remarkable because it was fostered by a black man in an overwhelmingly black city where blacks are rarely agents of change. 
 Mr. Brown coaxed local residents to join a civic association he had founded and went on to press whomever he would come across: politicians, philanthropists and dignitaries like King Juan Carlos of Spain, who visited Candeal in 2005, and the United States ambassador to Brazil, Clifford M. Sobel, who went there in February. ''The day my street was paved, I realized that we could accomplish anything,'' said Maria Jose Menezes dos Santos, 68, an active member of the association who has lived in the neighborhood for 38 years and raised 11 children there.
 Candeal has a privileged location, close to the beach and halfway between Salvador's old downtown and its new financial center. It is not a shantytown or an ''invasao,'' or invasion -- communities illegally built on vacant land. But it does have elements of both. The only comprehensive neighborhood survey to date, done in 1997, concluded that nearly one-fifth of its 5,500 residents were unemployed and that four out of five earned $80 a month or less. In addition, the survey showed, 25 percent of the homes were at risk of collapse. 
 While Pracatum School churned out a cast of talented musicians -- people like Leo Bit Bit, who plays with the band Scorpions; the twins Du and Jo, who play with Caetano Veloso; and Marivaldo dos Santos, who plays in ''Stomp'' -- the association went to work fixing up Candeal. It persuaded the city's health department to open a clinic there, the neighborhood's first. It raised money to build and renovate more than 200 homes and plaster and paint 60 others. It got the mayor's office to install sewer lines and refurbish a public water fountain that many families use to this day to wash their clothes. 
 This year, residents got together to patch up the battered soccer field, the sole source of recreation for many of the local children. 
 ''People used to look for ways to move out of here because of what this place was like,'' said Mario Sena, 27, a Candeal resident who was one of the first to enroll at Pracatum in 1994 and is now in charge of the school's music studio. ''Now, nobody wants to leave. Candeal is poor, but it has dignity.''
 Pride in where they came from is what Mr. Brown said he had sought to instill in Candeal's people, through his music and his social work, and by many measures he has been successful. At a fashion workshop Pracatum School started three months ago, for example, 20 women who had never before picked up a needle chose to use their neighborhood and neighbors as inspiration for a line of jewelry and key chains. 
 One student embroidered on a patch ''Da-se escova,'' or hair blow-dried here, mimicking a sign that hangs from a local hair salon. Another, Elaine Gualberto, 21, was stitching on a piece of fabric her own version of the neighborhood's patron saint, St. Anthony: a black man with a friar's robe and an Afro.
 ''It's cool to live in Candeal,'' said Ms. Gualberto, who was born and brought up there. ''Everybody knows it. Carlinhos Brown put it on the map.''
 Mr. Brown, who wore his long dreadlocks tucked inside a fluffy cap, a style copied by a group of young men gathered outside Pracatum the other day, credited collective efforts of the community with the changes. ''All I've done is use my name to get people to listen,'' he said. 
 ''I'm not better or smarter than anyone,'' he said. ''But whenever I find a door closed, I kick the door open.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Candeal Pequeno's residents united to form a civic association that has transformed an area where sewage once flowed openly.
 Carlinhos Brown, a singer, songwriter and percussionist who is one of Brazil's best-known artists, led the change 15 years ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MaRCIO LIMA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Candeal had deteriorated in the face of Salvador's growth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); SONG WRITING (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (73%); CITY LIFE (70%); SOCCER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



354 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 543 words

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
CENSUS CAMPAIGN
 Is Hurt by Cuts
 Budget cuts driven by the economic recession have hampered efforts by big cities to raise public awareness of the census next year, a development that could result in urban populations being undercounted and cities getting short-changed in the allocation of government financing, according to a report released Monday by the Pew Charitable Trusts. 
 While the report, prepared by the foundation's Philadelphia Research Initiative, focuses on that city, it quotes Joseph J. Salvo, chief of the Population Division of New York's Department of City Planning, as saying, ''Nobody is expecting a good census in 2010. I'm not optimistic. Since the last census we had 9/11, privacy issues, trust of government issues. And there's been no public declaration that we're going to suspend immigration raids like in 2000.''
 The Department of Commerce, which includes the Census Bureau, announced this month that it would not ask the Department of Homeland Security to suspend such raids ahead of the census.
 The report examined the nation's six most populous cities -- New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston, Phoenix and Philadelphia -- as well as Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Detroit and Pittsburgh, which have demographic or socioeconomic indicators similar to those of Philadelphia.
 Demographers say that certain groups -- among them low-income renters, immigrants who are not proficient in English, African-Americans and Hispanics -- are particularly likely to be undercounted. The undercounting could affect legislative reapportionment, the distribution of political resources within cities and the flow of billions of dollars in population-based federal and state aid, the report found.
 ''To varying degrees, civic prestige, political power, regional marketability and hard cash hinge on a city's official population figure,'' the report found. ''Major cities have a particularly big stake in the census because they tend to have a disproportionate number of the hard-to-count groups and high demand for the tax-supported social services many members of those groups use.''
 New York City has budgeted $750,000 for census outreach efforts, compared with $770,738 in Los Angeles, $500,000 in Houston, $185,000 in Phoenix and $150,000 in Baltimore, according to the report, which found that the other six cities had not set aside money for such efforts. Several of the cities, including New York, rely more on volunteers to work on census outreach, and have turned to philanthropies and private foundations to sponsor outreach efforts, the report found.
 The Census Bureau uses a separate sampling to derive something called the undercount formula, but the Supreme Court has ruled that statistical sampling may not be used for the official enumeration. 
 Several cities have successfully challenged the annual population counts, presenting statistical evidence that even with the adjustment, their populations were undercounted. Between 2001 and 2007, 6 of the 11 cities -- including New York -- won back governmental aid by successfully challenging their population counts, the report found.
 SEWELL CHAN ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 A Lens on City Parks: A new photography exhibition showcases the kind of wild nature found in city parks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A table for the 2010 census at a job fair at a Brooklyn recreation center in May.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (79%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (79%); REDISTRICTING (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); STATISTICAL METHOD (66%); POLITICS (64%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (59%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



355 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; REALLY?; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: The Claim: Always wash your hands with hot water, not cold.

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
THE FACTS
 With swine flu sweeping across the country, health officials are reminding Americans to wash their hands often to reduce the spread of the disease. 
 Soap and warm water have long been said to prevent the spread of infections, but is warm or hot water really more effective than cold?
 In its medical literature, the Food and Drug Administration states that hot water comfortable enough for washing hands is not hot enough to kill bacteria, but is more effective than cold water because it removes oils from the hand that can harbor bacteria. 
 But in a 2005 report in the Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, scientists with the Joint Bank Group/Fund Health Services Department pointed out that in studies in which subjects had their hands contaminated, and then were instructed to wash and rinse with soap for 25 seconds using water with temperatures ranging from 40 degrees Fahrenheit to 120 degrees, the various temperatures had ''no effect on transient or resident bacterial reduction.'' 
 They found no evidence that hot water had any benefit, and noted that it might increase the ''irritant capacity'' of some soaps, causing contact dermatitis. ''Temperature of water used for hand washing should not be guided by antibacterial effects but comfort,'' they wrote, ''which is in the tepid to warm temperature range. The usage of tepid water instead of hot water also has economic benefits.'' 
 THE BOTTOM LINE
 Hot water for hand washing has not been proved to remove germs better than cold water.
 ANAHAD O'CONNOR scitimes@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NEIMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTI-INFECTIVES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); BACTERIA (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (78%); INFLUENZA (78%); DERMATITIS (73%); WATER CONSUMPTION (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



356 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: As Asia's Emerging Economies Bound Ahead, Auction Houses Shift Focus

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
In December, Christie's will auction off ''the Vivid Pink,'' a bubble-gum-colored five-carat diamond with an estimated value of $5 million to $7 million. But instead of scheduling the sale for New York or Geneva, the city chosen was Hong Kong.
 Asia's role in the market for super high-end luxury goods is mushrooming, reflecting an underlying shift in consumer spending power that has been creeping along for years, but which received a boost from the global economic crisis. 
 Christie's and its rival Sotheby's say that in the last few years Hong Kong has emerged as a top location for sales of expensive jewelry, gems and fine wines. Asians have also become major buyers of ultraluxury goods at their auctions in London, New York and Geneva. 
 Christie's clear 101-carat Shizuka diamond, for instance, sold in Hong Kong for $6.2 million in May 2008. That sale, and the one coming Dec. 1 of its big pink diamond, ''are both great examples showing how important this market has become at the very top end,'' said Vickie Sek, head of jewelry at Christie's Asia. 
 In another telling example, Rolls-Royce, which did not even have dealerships in Asia until 2003, immediately received 20 orders for its new $250,000 Ghost when it presented the car in Hong Kong last month -- despite taxes that double the price.
 More broadly, household spending in developing Asian nations is expected to increase as continued growth, rising populations and improving government health and retirement safety nets reduce the need for families to save.
 At the same time, many of the world's economies are struggling to return to growth after the financial crisis. Russia and the Middle East are taking a hit from lower oil prices. And consumers in the world's traditional spending powerhouse, the United States, are weighed down by debt and expected to be much more cautious about opening their wallets for quite some time.
 ''The United States is in the early stages of a multiyear retrenchment,'' Stephen Roach, chairman of Morgan Stanley's Asia operations, said in a speech last week in Hong Kong. 
 The result is a gradual rebalancing in spending power toward emerging nations in Asia -- and China, in particular. 
 Japan, mired in a long economic slump, is a big exception in the region. Just last week, Yohji Yamamoto, the Japanese clothing designer, filed for bankruptcy protection, and Gianni Versace, the Italian fashion brand, announced that it would close its Japanese stores.
 But China, the world's most populous nation, has already become the biggest global car market, having overtaken the United States earlier this year. And Credit Suisse forecast last month that China's share of global consumption would overtake that of the United States by 2020.
 China's population of ''high net worth individuals,'' those worth $1 million or more, surpassed that of Britain for the first time last year, according to an annual study published by Capgemini and Merrill Lynch in June. 
 North America, Japan and Germany together still accounted for 54 percent of the global total, but the authors of the report also predicted that the Asia-Pacific region would surpass North America by 2013.
 Last month, a list compiled by Hurun Report, a research and publishing company based in Shanghai, found that the number of known billionaires in China had grown to 130 from 101 in 2008.
 To be sure, the shift in consumption and wealth is slow, and much will depend on how quickly Asian governments manage to improve social safety networks, stimulating domestic spending.
 Still, Asia has already seen a large rise in the number of individuals who can splash out in the auction halls of Christie's and Sotheby's.
 Buyers at Sotheby's autumn sales in Hong Kong this month spent $7.9 million for fine wines -- well above the $6.1 million estimate and above the $6.4 million raised at the Hong Kong spring sale. 
 A painting by the Chinese master Sanyu comfortably beat estimates, going for $4.7 million to a Chinese buyer bidding by telephone. 
 And Sotheby's jewelry auction on Wednesday raised more than $32.6 million, up from just under $20 million a year earlier. A 28.88-carat round brilliant-cut diamond fetched $4.7 million. And a ''fancy intense blue diamond'' went for $5.6 million, just short of the record per-carat price for a diamond of that type, drawing applause from those in the hall.
 Though some prices remained below their precrisis peaks, the results bode well for sales at Christie's in December.
 In the mid-1990s, Sotheby's jewelry auctions in Hong Kong raised only about 5 percent of its total in the jewelry category, said Terry Chu, deputy head of the jewelry department at Sotheby's in Asia.
 In 2004, its Hong Kong jewelry auction raised $47 million, surpassing the Geneva auction for the first time. Since then, the Hong Kong auctions have represented about one-third of the total each year.
 In December 2008, when the credit squeeze set off by the collapse of Lehman Brothers was at its most severe, Christie's raised $33.5 million at its jewelry sale in Hong Kong, more than at any of the other jewelry auctions it held elsewhere that season. 
 In the world of top wines, too, Asian buyers are center stage.
 Christie's said that in the spring season, Asian buyers accounted for 61 percent of the total sales value at its New York, London and Hong Kong wine auctions. Four years earlier, the figure was 7 percent.
 Its Hong Kong wine auctions, moreover, have the highest average lot price -- roughly three times that in New York or London -- because Christie's puts only the rarest, most expensive vintage wines up for sale in the city, said David Elswood, Christie's international head of wines.
 The vast majority of Asian buyers, he said, fully intend to drink the wines they buy. ''It's all about prestige rather than investment,'' Mr. Elswood said. ''You cannot show off a wine without opening and drinking it.''
 Colin Kelly, Asia-Pacific regional director at Rolls-Royce, agreed. ''People here in Asia are more likely to be comfortable with showing their wealth,'' he said.
 The luxury carmaker sold only about 1,200 cars last year. More than 200 of those -- about 90 percent of them custom -- went to buyers in the Asia-Pacific region.
 That figure was up from only a handful in 2003. 
 ''We expect that percentage to rise in the next few years,'' Mr. Kelly said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Buyers at Sotheby's wine auction in Hong Kong this month spent $7.9 million for rare vintages, well above the $6.4 million raised at the company's spring sale.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL SORABJI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Rolls-Royce received 20 orders for its new $250,000 Ghost when it presented the automobile in Hong Kong last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE CLARKE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Christie's and other auction houses are increasingly offering high-end diamonds like ''the Vivid Pink'' in the Asian market.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YM YIK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); FAMILY (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); FASHION & APPAREL (63%); FASHION DESIGNERS (63%); FASHION DESIGN (60%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (81%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (81%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) HONG KONG (98%); ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); SOUTHERN ASIA (91%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



357 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: 2 U.S. Social Scientists Share Nobel in Economics

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences was awarded on Monday to two American social scientists for their work in describing the numerous relationships within a company or among companies and individuals that shape market behavior.
 The prize committee cited Elinor Ostrom, 76, at Indiana University, and Oliver E. Williamson, 77, at the University of California, Berkeley, for work done over long careers. Ms. Ostrom is the first woman to receive the economics prize in the 41-year history of the award. She is a political scientist, not an economist, and in honoring her, the judges seemed to suggest that economics should be thought of as an interdisciplinary field rather than a pure science governed by mathematics.
 ''This award is part of the merging of the social sciences,'' said Robert Shiller, a Yale University economist. ''Economics has been too isolated and too stuck on the view that markets are efficient and self-regulating. It has derailed our thinking.'' 
 The Nobel judges in Stockholm notified the winners when it was 6:30 a.m. in Bloomington, Ind., where Ms. Ostrom lives, and 3:30 a.m. in California. Mr. Williamson's grown son, home on a visit, answered the ringing telephone and passed the call to his father, awakening him. Ms. Ostrom said she, too, was awakened by the call and afterward made herself a cup of coffee in the kitchen. Both expressed surprise that the award had come their way. They will split $1.4 million in prize money. 
 Neither Ms. Ostrom nor Mr. Williamson has argued against regulation. Quite the contrary, their work found that people in business adopt for themselves numerous forms of regulation and rules of behavior -- called ''governance'' in economic jargon -- doing so independently of government or without being told to do so by corporate bosses.
 The Nobel judges, in their description of Mr. Williamson's and Ms. Ostrom's achievement, said that ''economic science'' should extend beyond market theory and into actual behavior, and the two award winners, in their empirical work, had achieved this. Summarizing their findings, the award announcement said: ''Rules that are imposed from the outside or unilaterally dictated by powerful insiders have less legitimacy and are more likely to be violated. Likewise, monitoring and enforcement work better when conducted by insiders than by outsiders. These principles are in stark contrast to the common view that monitoring and sanctions are the responsibility of the state and should be conducted by public employees.'' 
 Ms. Ostrom's work deals in the concept of ''commons'' shared by a number of people who earn their living from a common resource and have a stake, therefore, in preserving it. Her most recent research has focused on relatively small forests in undeveloped countries. Groups of people share the right to harvest lumber from a particular forest, and so they have a stake in making sure the forest survives.
 ''When local users of a forest have a long-term perspective, they are more likely to monitor each other's use of the land, developing rules for behavior,'' Ms. Ostrom said in an interview. ''It is an area that standard market theory does not touch.''
 Often working with her husband, Vincent, 90, who is a professor emeritus at Indiana, Ms. Ostrom concluded in her research that the ''tragedy of the commons'' was an inaccurate concept. Particularly in 17th- and 18th-century England and Scotland, the concept described villagers' overgrazing of their herds on the village commons, thereby destroying it as pasture.
 The solution often invoked was to convert the commons to private property, on the ground that self-interested owners would protect their pasture land. 
 ''Conservatives used the tragedy of the commons to argue for property rights, and efficiency was achieved as people were thrown off the commons,'' said Joseph E. Stiglitz of Columbia University, a Nobel laureate in economics himself. ''But the effects of throwing a lot of people out of their livelihood were enormous. What Ostrom has demonstrated is the existence of social control mechanisms that regulate the use of commons without having to resort to property rights.''
 Mr. Williamson is a professor emeritus of business, economics and law who retired five years ago from the Graduate School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. The award recognized, in particular, his studies of corporate organization, and his finding that large corporations exist because, under the right conditions, they are an efficient way to do business.
 ''Large corporations may, of course, abuse their power,'' the citation said. ''They may, for instance, participate in undesirable political lobbying and exhibit anticompetitive behavior.''
 If a coal-burning electric power plant is near the only coal mine in the region, then integrating the two is sensible. On the other hand, if several coal mines are nearby, then integrating with just one of them could undermine the advantages of allowing the coal companies to compete for the utility's business.
 ''If you believe that markets operate in Alan Greenspan fashion, then you don't inquire into the details,'' Mr. Williamson said in an interview. One assumes, as Mr. Greenspan does, that the outcome is optimal, but that assumption cannot be made, he said. ''If you choose to integrate activities that are well served by the market, you are taking on disadvantages,'' he said. ''There is a place for each mode of organization'' and this is not well understood in economics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oliver E. Williamson, 77, is a professor emeritus of business.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Elinor Ostrom, 76, is the first woman to receive the economics prize.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN SOMMERS II/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (92%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



358 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: The Young And The Neuro

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
When you go to an academic conference you expect to see some geeks, gravitas and graying professors giving lectures. But the people who showed up at the Social and Affective Neuroscience Society's conference in Lower Manhattan last weekend were so damned young, hip and attractive. The leading figures at this conference were in their 30s, and most of the work was done by people in their 20s. When you spoke with them, you felt yourself near the beginning of something long and important.
 In 2001, an Internet search of the phrase ''social cognitive neuroscience'' yielded 53 hits. Now you get more than a million on Google. Young scholars have been drawn to this field from psychology, economics, political science and beyond in the hopes that by looking into the brain they can help settle some old arguments about how people interact. 
 These people study the way biology, in the form of genes, influences behavior. But they're also trying to understand the complementary process of how social behavior changes biology. Matthew Lieberman of U.C.L.A. is doing research into what happens in the brain when people are persuaded by an argument.
 Keely Muscatell, one of his doctoral students, and others presented a study in which they showed people from various social strata some images of menacing faces. People whose parents had low social status exhibited more activation in the amygdala (the busy little part of the brain involved in fear and emotion) than people from high-status families.
 Reem Yahya and a team from the University of Haifa studied Arabs and Jews while showing them images of hands and feet in painful situations. The two cultures perceived pain differently. The Arabs perceived higher levels of pain over all while the Jews were more sensitive to pain suffered by members of a group other than their own.
 Mina Cikara of Princeton and others scanned the brains of Yankee and Red Sox fans as they watched baseball highlights. Neither reacted much to an Orioles-Blue Jays game, but when they saw their own team doing well, brain regions called the ventral striatum and nucleus accumbens were activated. This is a look at how tribal dominance struggles get processed inside.
 Jonathan B. Freeman of Tufts and others peered into the reward centers of the brain such as the caudate nucleus. They found that among Americans, that region was likely to be activated by dominant behavior, whereas among Japanese, it was more likely to be activated by subordinate behavior -- the same region rewarding different patterns of behavior depending on culture.
 All of these studies are baby steps in a long conversation, and young academics are properly circumspect about drawing broad conclusions. But eventually their work could give us a clearer picture of what we mean by fuzzy words like 'culture.' It could also fill a hole in our understanding of ourselves. Economists, political scientists and policy makers treat humans as ultrarational creatures because they can't define and systematize the emotions. This work is getting us closer to that.
 The work demonstrates that we are awash in social signals, and any social science that treats individuals as discrete decision-making creatures is nonsense. But it also suggests that even though most of our reactions are fast and automatic, we still have free will and control.
 Many of the studies presented here concerned the way we divide people by in-group and out-group categories in as little as 170 milliseconds. The anterior cingulate cortices in American and Chinese brains activate when people see members of their own group endure pain, but they do so at much lower levels when they see members of another group enduring it. These effects may form the basis of prejudice.
 But a study by Saaid A. Mendoza and David M. Amodio of New York University showed that if you give people a strategy, such as reminding them to be racially fair, it is possible to counteract those perceptions. People feel disgust toward dehumanized groups, but a study by Claire Hoogendoorn, Elizabeth Phelps and others at N.Y.U. suggests it is possible to lower disgust and the accompanying insula activity through cognitive behavioral therapy. 
 In other words, consciousness is too slow to see what happens inside, but it is possible to change the lenses through which we unconsciously construe the world.
 Since I'm not an academic, I'm free to speculate that this work will someday give us new categories, which will replace misleading categories like 'emotion' and 'reason.' I suspect that the work will take us beyond the obsession with I.Q. and other conscious capacities and give us a firmer understanding of motivation, equilibrium, sensitivity and other unconscious capacities.
 The hard sciences are interpenetrating the social sciences. This isn't dehumanizing. It shines attention on the things poets have traditionally cared about: the power of human attachments. It may even help policy wonks someday see people as they really are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); BRAIN (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BASEBALL (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); FAMILY (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



359 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: How to Flunk Test-Giving

 BODY:
Millions of Americans are trapped at the margins of the economy because they lack the basic skills that come with a high-school education. This year, more than 600,000 of these people will try to improve their prospects by studying for the rigorous, seven-hour examination known as the General Educational Development test, or G.E.D., which should end in a credential that employers and colleges recognize as the equivalent of a diploma.
 The most fortunate live in states -- such as Delaware, Kansas and Iowa -- that have well-managed programs in which 90 percent or more of the test-takers pass. 
 The least fortunate live in New York State, which has the lowest pass rate in the nation, just behind Mississippi. Worse off still are the G.E.D.-seekers of New York City, which has a shameful pass rate -- lower than that of the educationally challenged District of Columbia. This bodes ill for the city, where at least one in five adult workers lacks a diploma, and the low-skill jobs that once allowed them to support their families are dwindling. 
 The scope of this problem is laid out in an alarming new study by the Community Service Society, a 160-year-old advocacy group that focuses on policies affecting the city's poor. Unless the state and city strengthen and better finance the G.E.D. programs, the authors say, a growing number of undereducated New Yorkers will be shut out of the labor force and will become a permanent burden to their fellow taxpayers.
 The typical G.E.D.-seekers in New York City are black or Hispanic, aged 19 to 60, and have hit the advancement wall in the workplace because of the lack of a diploma. They learn right away that G.E.D. classes are difficult to find, thanks to poor programming by the city and state, which pay for them. The chaos in New York is regularly felt at the GED Testing Service in Washington. According to officials there, New York State accounts for about 10 percent of the testing activity nationally but about three-quarters of telephone calls from people who don't know how to access the G.E.D. system locally.
 There is an excellent program run by the City University of New York's preparatory high school. But in general, the report notes, the G.E.D. here ''has become a second-class education system serving low-income people of color who were failed by our K-12 school system.''
 The courses are often of questionable quality. The teachers are generally poorly paid and most often marginally qualified. And according to the report, the state and city spend about $1,000 per student, less than a tenth of what's spent per student in the public school system. 
 According to the GED Testing Service in Washington, New Yorkers have so much trouble accessing the system and getting testing appointments that they often take the test in Georgia, which welcomes out-of-state test-takers for a modest fee.
 New York drives up its failure rate on this costly test and wastes precious resources by allowing people to take it without first taking preparation courses. States with the highest success rates often require a diagnostic pretest, followed by instruction as needed and then an official practice test. That's the case in Iowa, where 99 percent of the test-takers passed the exam in 2008.
 Iowa also has made the G.E.D. an integral part of its educational system. Those who do not pass the diagnostic test are funneled into literacy courses offered by community colleges at little or no cost.
 To emulate this model, New York will need to invest a great deal more than it spends at the moment. But the costs of doing nothing clearly outweigh those of remaking a chaotic and ineffectual system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



360 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Bank Losses Are Still Rising, but the Pace Is Beginning to Slow

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Just a year ago, many of the nation's biggest banks were in such bad shape that their losses threatened to topple the financial system. 
 Today, by all appearances, their vast problems seem to be easing: a seven-month rally in financial stocks has driven the shares of Citigroup and other troubled behemoths up sharply. And the economy has shown modest improvement, slowing losses that only recently threatened the survival of some big banks. 
 As banks prepare to reveal this week how they performed in the third quarter, earnings are still expected to be down sharply, by about 30 percent from the previous year. And about 40 percent of lenders could post a quarterly loss, according to a recent report from Sandler O'Neill & Partners. 
 The recovery that picked up pace last quarter has also prevented bank loan losses from growing much worse. 
 Losses on home mortgages, for example, now look as if they will be postponed for several months, in part because of the federal mortgage modification program and statewide efforts to temporarily halt foreclosures. 
 Even the gargantuan losses on credit card and other consumer loans, while still high, are growing at a slower pace than previous quarters.
 ''There is more pain to come, but they have enough Band-Aids and tourniquets to slow or cut off the bleeding,'' said David A. Hendler, a financial services analyst at CreditSights in New York.
 After several quarters of multibillion-dollar write-offs, the troubles for many of the big banks may be starting to ease and even show signs of improvement. It is a stark contrast to last fall, when concerns about their financial condition forced the government to rush in with capital injections and other forms of emergency aid. 
 JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs are expected to report another strong quarter, largely because trading profits have soared with the stock market, widening the performance gap with their peers and putting their bankers on track for big bonuses this year. Morgan Stanley could have a decent quarter for the same reasons if its traders fare better than in the last few quarters. 
 Bank of America and Citigroup, which each accepted $45 billion of taxpayer money, are also likely to benefit from a strong quarter from their investment bank, though it may not be enough to offset the enormous losses in their credit card and consumer lending businesses. That could foil the efforts of both to repay the government quickly, as most of their peers have already done.
 Even so, those banks may be starting to see their problems diminish just as the troubles for the rest of the industry deepen. Looming losses from commercial real estate could make it a challenging quarter for other big lenders like Wells Fargo, SunTrust Bank and Zions Bancorporation. All have large portfolios loaded with commercial real estate loans. 
 Commercial real estate could also put pressure on the results of hundreds of small community banks. Elbowed out of the credit card and mortgage lending businesses by their larger rivals, they began aggressively financing home construction projects as well as office, hotel and retail development deals. 
 Many of those borrowers are just starting to default, leading the banks to book giant write-offs and set aside more money to cushion future blows. 
 ''The hot button for this quarter is: 'How bad is commercial real estate going to get?' '' said Kevin Fitzsimmons, a banking analyst at Sandler O'Neill. ''Some of the big problems with construction loans are getting worse at a slower rate, but the new problems in commercial real estate are starting to rear their head.'' 
 For the biggest banks, the struggling American consumer remains the biggest concern. As unemployment rises and the recession takes its toll, borrowers are defaulting on their credit card and mortgage payments at an alarming pace. That has led the banks to set aside billions of dollars to cushion the huge losses on bad loans. 
 At the beginning of the 2007, consumer defaults hovered at around 1 percent of all loan balances; today they are at about 3 percent of all loans, according to data from Economy.com. And the percentage continues to climb, especially among credit card loans. 
 Still, some analysts say there are early signs that some of the pressure is abating, and that consumer losses may peak sometime next year. Losses are still expected to remain high through most of next year, but the slowdown -- and a related drop in the number of borrowers falling behind on their loans -- could mean banks will not need to add as much money to their reserves in coming quarters. That could improve results down the road. 
 ''We haven't peaked, but outside of mortgage, we are getting close,'' said Scott Hoyt, a senior consumer data analyst at Economy.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bank of America, above, and Morgan Stanley, right, are expected to have performed relatively well in the third quarter.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Shares of Citibank and JPMorgan Chase have recovered nicely this year, but earnings are still likely to be down from a year ago.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS
 JEREMY BALES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (74%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (70%); ZIONS BANCORP (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); ZION (NASDAQ) (60%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



361 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Ends About Where It Started

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Stocks ended mostly unchanged on Monday in trading that was subdued by the Columbus Day holiday and anticipation of quarterly earnings reports from several major banks and some prominent companies. 
 Banks including JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs will report results this week. On the technology front, results from Intel, the chip maker, and Google, the search company, are due this week. 
 Dozens of businesses have used huge job cuts, deep reductions in investment and other austerity measures to wipe red ink from balance sheets. Better earnings drove Wall Street's rally over the summer, and investors hope that businesses can demonstrate more progress. 
 ''Earnings estimates were cut down pretty low,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners. ''I don't think it's going to be a problem for corporate America to at least match, or even beat, the expectations.''
 Despite that optimism, one of President Obama's top economic advisers, Lawrence H. Summers, offered a reminder of the tough road ahead for the economy. 
 ''We need to recognize that lack of demand will be a major constraint on output and employment in the American economy for the foreseeable future,'' Mr. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, told a group of economists in St. Louis, Reuters reported.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 20.86 points, or 0.21 percent, to close at 9,885.80 while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 4.70 points, or 0.44 percent, to end at 1,076.19. The Nasdaq composite fell 0.14 points, or 0.01 percent, to 2,139.14. 
 In the energy markets, crude oil settled at $73.27 a barrel, up $1.50, as temperatures fell, increasing demand for heating oil. 
 One measure of how cheap or expensive stocks are -- the ratio of prices to corporate earnings -- briefly reached its highest point since 2004 for companies on the S.& P. 500, according to Bloomberg data. Although stocks are no longer heavily discounted by that measure, bullish investors say that higher corporate earnings will make stocks seem to be better bargains in the next weeks.
 Economists are joining in on the optimism. The National Association for Business Economics released a survey on Monday showing that a ''vast majority'' of economists believed the recession had ended and predicted that the economy would grow by nearly 3 percent in the last half of 2009. But worries about towering national debt and high unemployment dimmed their longer-term outlooks.
 The dollar continued its fall against major world currencies, slipping to $1.48 against the euro. Meanwhile, gold and crude oil prices climbed, lifting shares of mining companies, oil producers and other commodities companies.
 Even as unemployment has climbed and the economy has slogged through a slow and jittery recovery, businesses have impressed investors this earnings season. The aluminum maker Alcoa reported a slim profit for the summer after a year of losses, and the power-tool maker Black and Decker raised its outlook on Monday, sending its shares 7.6 percent higher to $50.82. 
 Consumer-focused companies like the toy maker Mattel and the Safeway supermarket chain are also set to report earnings this week, offering investors a glimpse into how consumers are spending on necessities like groceries, as well as discretionary purchases like Hot Wheels and Barbie dolls. 
 The recession has depleted millions of 401(k) accounts, erased trillions of dollars in household wealth and destroyed some seven million jobs, raising big doubts about whether the American consumer can pull the retail sector and the broader economy out of the downturn. 
 ''A lot of it's going to depend on what goes on with retail sales,'' said Don Bright, a partner at Bright Trading in Chicago. ''I don't care what anybody says. They've got to come through O.K.''
 On Wednesday, the government will report its regular retail sales numbers, which tally sales at gas stations, supermarkets, department stores and other businesses.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); HEATING OIL (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (65%); EURO (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); MINES & MINING (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (69%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



362 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: A Recovery to 'Less Bad'

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
As the economy begins to shift gears from dismal to slightly improved, the travel industry sees some reason for hope -- but not much.
 The U.S. Travel Association expects travel spending in the United States to decline by nearly 9 percent this year, to $705 billion, which includes domestic business and leisure travel as well as spending by international visitors. Spending is expected to increase by 6 percent in 2010, but that does not make up for the large dip in 2009.
 ''I describe these numbers as being less bad -- but they're certainly not good,'' said Suzanne D. Cook, senior vice president for research at the trade group. 
 While some parts of the travel industry have survived the downturn fairly well -- car rental companies have reduced fleets, for instance, and cruise ship lines have adjusted itineraries -- the industry is bracing for more modest spending on travel for years to come. One factor keeping optimism in check is tight controls on business travel.
 The National Business Travel Association calculates that American companies spent $261 billion on business travel (both domestic and international) in 2008, a $44 billion increase since 1998. But the group expects that amount to increase by only $4 billion from 2008 to 2013, creating challenges for an industry that has relied heavily on American expense accounts in the past.
 ''We're not overly bullish on business travel spending,'' said Kenneth McGill, a research consultant for the group. ''The recovery is real. It already seems to be taking hold. But it's going to be slow and tough going.''
 The group's five-year forecast anticipates that business travel spending by other countries, particularly China, will account for a growing slice of the global pie in the coming years, offering relief to multinational brands like hotel chains that benefit from spending abroad.
 Domestically, government spending on travel is one bright spot for the industry, said Mike Koetting, chief operating officer for Carlson Wagonlit Travel North America, a travel management company. But in general, he described the outlook for late 2009 and early 2010 as less a recovery than ''things have stopped getting worse.'' 
 ''I think the new normal is generally tighter policies,'' Mr. Koetting said. ''More pretrip approvals, more focus on advance purchase, more focus on the use of preferred suppliers, less use of business travel seats.'' 
 Still, some parts of the travel industry have proved adept at reacting to shrinking demand.
 ''Contrary to many people's belief, the car rental industry is actually in relatively good shape,'' said Neil Abrams, president of the Abrams Consulting Group, which advises car rental firms.
 While demand is down 15 to 17 percent from last year, Mr. Abrams said, the industry's overall fleet size is down to about 1.5 million cars, from more than two million cars in 2000. Rates have actually increased in many markets because companies do not have excess inventory they need to discount to move off the lot.
 According to a weekly index that Mr. Abrams compiles that tracks rates for a midsize car booked for one day, one week in advance, the average rate at 10 major airport markets was $98.40 in mid-September, up from $59.40 a year ago. Higher rates, aggressive cost-cutting and a strengthening used-car market helped the leading car rental companies to report profits in the second quarter. 
 The hotel industry presents another example of resilience. According to Smith Travel Research, hotels have to fill 4.8 million rooms in the United States, almost a million more rooms than in 1998. Yet despite a precipitous drop in occupancy levels to a nationwide average of 56 percent -- compared with a typical 63 percent -- many hotel companies remain in the black.
 ''Profits will probably be off between 40 and 45 percent,'' said Bjorn Hanson, associate professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. ''But in the last few years, hotels have seen record levels of profits, so the industry will remain profitable.''
 That does not mean all hotels owners are faring well. Many have been cutting expenses through layoffs and reduced capital spending as average daily rates have fallen to $98 this year, from a peak of $107 in 2008.
 While Mr. Hanson said he expected occupancy levels to increase 1 or 2 percent next year, he did not see rates rebounding soon. ''Recovery is not a good term to be applied to 2010,'' he said.
 Cruise lines face similar challenges, albeit with more flexibility to relocate their floating resorts to economically sunnier ports. According to the Cruise Lines International Association, a trade group, its members will have roughly 293,000 beds to fill by the end of this year, up from 225,000 in 2005. That increase is due in part to megaships like Royal Caribbean's Oasis of the Seas, which will carry 5,400 passengers when it begins service in December.
 While the cruise line association does not track cruise prices, it is no secret that lines have been discounting heavily. That has helped maintain occupancy levels of nearly 104 percent this year -- parents and children sharing a cabin push the number above 100 -- which is in line with the historical average.
 The airline industry, however, continues to struggle. The Air Transport Association reports that the domestic capacity of American carriers in the fourth quarter will fall to 12.5 billion seat miles (one seat flown one mile), slightly above the 12.1 billion seat miles offered in the fourth quarter of 2001. The International Air Transport Association projects that the global airline industry will lose $11 billion this year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A customer checks a rental car at Miami International Airport. Car rental companies have fared well in the recession by cutting the size of their fleets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CRUISES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%)

COMPANY: CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



363 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Clamps on Credit Tighten

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
Many small and midsize American businesses are still struggling to secure bank loans, impeding their expansion plans and constraining overall economic growth, even as the country tentatively rises from its recessionary depths. 
 Most banks expect their lending standards to remain tighter than the levels of the last decade until at least the middle of 2010, according to a survey of senior loan officers conducted by the Federal Reserve Board. The enduring credit squeeze appears to reflect an aversion to risk among lenders confronting great uncertainty about the economy rather than any lingering effects of the panic that gripped financial markets last fall, after the collapse of the investment banking giant Lehman Brothers.
 Bankers worry about the extent of losses on credit card businesses as high unemployment sends cardholders into trouble. They are also reckoning with anticipated failures in commercial real estate. Until the scope of these losses is known, many lenders are inclined to hang on to their dollars rather than risk them on loans to businesses in a weak economy, say economists and financial industry executives. 
 ''The banks are just deathly afraid,'' said Sam Thacker, a partner at Business Finance Solutions in Austin, Tex., which helps small businesses line up financing. ''I don't see commercial banks coming back to the market anytime soon.'' In the long view, tighter loan standards seem healthy after a terrible crisis attributed in part to years of recklessly lenient lending. 
 But some economists worry that bankers have overshot the boundaries of a healthy reaction, as even strong companies are finding it difficult to borrow.
 ''The banks are still very risk averse,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of the research and trading firm I.T.G. ''Regional banks are in a particularly tough spot, because they're choking on commercial and residential real estate.''
 Bankers acknowledge that loans are harder to secure than in years past, but they say this attests to the weakness of many borrowers rather than a reluctance to lend.
 ''Banks want to lend money,'' said Raymond P. Davis, chief executive of Umpqua Bank, a regional lender based in Portland, Ore. ''The problem is the effect that the recession is still having on us. Some of these businesses are still trying to come out of it. For them to go to a bank, if they are showing weak performance, it is harder to borrow.''
 As the financial crisis has largely eased in recent months, big companies have found credit increasingly abundant, with bond issues sharply higher. 
 But for ordinary consumers, the picture is quite different. What was once of a flood of come-ons for home equity loans and credit cards has been replaced by notices of lowered credit limits.
 For many smaller companies, too, borrowing remains tough. 
 Some 14 percent of small businesses found loans harder to secure in August than in July, according to the most recent survey by the National Federation of Independent Business. Among companies borrowing regularly, less than one-third reported that all their credit needs were being met. 
 ''It's quite significant, because small businesses generate significant job growth,'' said Andrew Tilton, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs. ''And small businesses rely more on bank financing, whereas large businesses have the alternative of raising money in the capital markets.'' 
 Businesses with fewer than 500 employees hold more than half of the nation's private sector jobs, according to the Small Business Administration.
 In Port Arthur, Tex., Five Star Feeds, which sells gardening supplies, pet food and livestock feed, is stuck in a holding pattern on a planned expansion as the owner, Tina E. Bean, tries to persuade her local banker to provide $150,000 in credit.
 Ms. Bean began the business in 2001 and has been profitable ever since, she said. She has already borrowed about $800,000 for her expansion, more than doubling the size of her storefront as she adds new product lines, including Western-style clothing like jeans and cowboy boots. 
 But without the last $150,000, she is unable to order the new products. Her new shelves remain bare. She missed the deadline to tap her final $150,000 in credit, she says, and her banker refused to offer a new loan, even as she insisted that she could not move into the new space.
 ''His answer is, 'We'll cross that bridge when we get there,' '' Ms. Bean said. ''Well, I'm there. I can't open the store if I don't have anything to put in it.''
 Until she obtains financing, she has no reason to hire the two or three people she will need to run the larger space. She has no reason to place orders that would increase work for truck drivers who ferry blue jeans and pet grooming supplies to retail stores, and no need to bring on accountants, insurance agents, lawyers, forklift drivers and auto mechanics whose business opportunities would be incrementally expanded by more commerce.
 Among small privately held companies, the amount of debt they carry as a portion of their equity has slipped by about 5 percent since 2007, according to Sageworks, a financial analysis firm in Raleigh, N.C. The drop reflects not only how companies have cut their inventories and paid down debt, but also the tightened credit terms they face when they try to borrow, said a Sageworks spokeswoman, Melinda Crump. 
 For companies that work on a contract basis bidding for jobs in advance, tight credit sometimes precludes their ability to seek new business: They cannot raise capital to hire workers and add equipment.
 In Alexandria, Minn., Bob Novak, president of ACB Construction, has in recent months declined to bid on large-scale government jobs in Utah because of what he describes as a frustrating lack of credit for people in his line of work. His work force has shrunk to 1, from 14, in the last two years, yet every effort to generate fresh business seems to get snuffed out by rejections from banks.
 ''You might as well not walk through the door of a bank and have construction behind your name,'' Mr. Novak said. ''You cannot get a loan if you don't look profitable, and you can't look profitable if you can't bid the work. I've had to walk away from jobs because I cannot get the funding.''
 Med-National provides medical and dental services on a contract basis, mostly to the Defense Department. The San Antonio-based company has been in business for more than 20 years, has never lost money, and logged $5.9 million in sales last year, said the executive vice president, Robert S. Welborn Jr. 
 Yet as the company recently sought to secure a pair of contracts with the United States Army, its plans were delayed for nearly a year as it tried and failed to persuade a bank to lend it $300,000. The financing was required to hire the roughly 20 people needed to deliver the services -- doctors and dentists and support staff.
 Mr. Welborn initially called local banks with whom he had done business in years past, among them JPMorgan Chase and Wachovia. Their answer surprised him: no.
 ''It used to be you could practically just jangle your keys and they would give you some money,'' Mr. Welborn said. ''It isn't anything like that anymore.''
 In August, Mr. Welborn finally lined up financing from Wells Fargo and began hiring. Yet the delay and the uncertainty have left him reluctant to pursue other contracts.
 ''If we could borrow the money more easily,'' he said, ''we would be hiring even more people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tina Bean failed to get a loan to stock her newly expanded business in Texas with the necessary goods.(B1)
Tina Bean moving bags at her store, Five Star Foods, in Port Arthur, Tex., where she wants to begin selling clothing and boots.
 Ms. Bean got an $800,000 loan to pay for the store's expansion. She needs a $150,000 loan to stock it and hire workers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BONDS (69%); BOND ISSUES (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); UMPQUA HOLDINGS CORP (52%)

TICKER: UMPQ (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



364 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Building a Bridge Of (and to) the Future

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

DATELINE: PITTSFIELD, Me. 

 BODY:
The Neal Bridge is barely a bump in the road for motorists roaring down Route 100 south of this central Maine town. It's a modest bit of the nation's infrastructure -- two lanes wide and 34 feet long, enough to span a small stream.
 The bridge is newer than most, as suggested by the still-black asphalt and the fresh galvanized gleam of the guardrails. But it's what is underneath that really makes the bridge stand out.
 Rather than steel or concrete beams, the structure consists of 23 graceful arches of carbon- and glass-fiber fabric. These are 12-inch-diameter tubes that have been inflated, bent to the proper shape and stiffened with a plastic resin, then installed side by side and stuffed with concrete, like giant manicotti. Covered with composite decking and compacted soil, the arches support a standard gravel-and-asphalt roadway. 
 The bridge is the first of what its designers, about 50 miles up the road at the University of Maine in Orono, hope will be many of its type, combining composite materials with more conventional ones like concrete. With an estimated 160,000 of the nation's 600,000 road bridges in need of repair or replacement, if it or other hybrid designs catch on, they could mark a breakthrough in the use of fiber-reinforced plastics, known as F.R.P., on highways.
 ''This was an experiment for us,'' said Habib J. Dagher, director of the university's Advanced Structures and Composites Center, where the design was developed over seven years. ''It was time to get out of the lab and see if it really works.''
 The bridge, built last November for about $600,000, is being monitored with deflection sensors and other instruments, and so far is holding up under the daily onslaught of traffic. ''It went amazingly well,'' Dr. Dagher said. ''We learned a lot. It turned out to be $170,000 less expensive than a precast bridge.'' 
 It worked so well, in fact, that it attracted the attention of the Obama administration; Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood toured the center in August. And a second, similar bridge was completed in late summer, farther north, in Anson. The fiber-arch design was the lowest of seven bids.
 Long the stuff of surfboards and pleasure boats, and more recently used in aircraft wings and other components, plastic polymers reinforced with fibers were first researched for use in bridges in the 1980s. Civil engineers were attracted to them for the same reasons other designers were -- their strength, light weight and corrosion resistance.
 But the materials have not exactly revolutionized highway infrastructure. F.R.P. strips and sheets have been used to repair concrete or steel on existing bridges, or to strengthen structures against earthquakes. Glass-fiber rods have replaced steel in some reinforced concrete work, because corrosion of steel rebar from road de-icing chemicals destroys concrete.
 When it comes to larger-scale structural components, however, fiber-reinforced plastics have had less of an impact. They have mostly been used in bridge decking, where corrosion resistance is critical and the lighter weight allows for a higher ''live'' load of vehicles. Only a handful of bridges have major support beams made from them.
 One reason F.R.P. components haven't caught on, experts say, is that engineers and contractors have little experience with the materials, and full standards guiding their use in highway construction have not been developed.
 Engineers ''have to deal with life-safety issues,'' said John P. Busel, director of the composites growth initiative of the American Composites Manufacturers Association. ''They have a desire to understand how materials fully develop and how they fully last before they specify them.''
 The materials also do not always interact well with others. One problem with F.R.P. bridge decks, for example, is that the road surface -- asphalt or concrete, applied as an overlay -- can wear out quickly, said Lijuan Cheng, an assistant professor of engineering at the University of California, Davis. 
 But the main argument against using fiber-reinforced plastics has been economic.
 ''No. 1 is the upfront cost issue,'' said Paul Ziehl, an associate professor of engineering at the University of South Carolina. ''That's a tough one to get around.'' 
 Dr. Ziehl, who helped design and test F.R.P. beams used on a small bridge in Texas, said the problem was that no two projects were the same. ''If you're going to design things that really make sense from an optimized engineering standpoint, they are going to be one-of-a-kind items at first, until economies of scale kick in,'' he said. The beams for the Texas bridge, for example, were custom designed and built using a labor-intensive method.
 ''The construction industry is very persnickety about cost,'' Mr. Busel said. With F.R.P. decks, he added, ''we're more expensive, sometimes twice as expensive,'' as conventional ones. What contractors need to understand, he said, is that there are transportation, labor and equipment savings from using lighter components, and potential maintenance savings, too.
 Such savings were all part of the goal for the University of Maine's design, Dr. Dagher said. Little costly F.R.P. material is used -- it serves largely as a shell for the concrete, which is cheaper. The tubes help protect the concrete from de-icing chemicals, potentially reducing maintenance costs, and no internal rebar is needed. ''It's exoskeleton reinforcement,'' Dr. Dagher said.
 The arches are not the only hybrid design in use. John Hillman, an engineer and president of HC Bridge Company in Wilmette, Ill., has developed straight beams that combine polymers with concrete and steel. The basic beam consists of a rectangular F.R.P. tube with an arch-shaped conduit formed inside it. The conduit is filled with concrete, which provides compressive strength, and steel rods along the bottom of the tube provide tensile strength. The beams have been used on a test railroad bridge in Colorado and several road bridges in Illinois and New Jersey.
 ''Everything about the beam is designed to be compatible with conventional means of construction,'' said Mr. Hillman, who has been working on the design for 14 years. ''We're very close right now to parity with concrete and steel on an installed-cost basis.''
 Mr. Hillman's beams still have to be delivered by truck, although they are light enough that several can be carried on one flatbed. The University of Maine arches, on the other hand, can be fabricated on site -- the fabric inflated, bent around a simple form and infused with resin using a vacuum pump. Before they are filled with concrete they are light enough to be installed quickly, without the need for large cranes or other heavy-duty equipment. The second bridge was built in nine working days, Dr. Dagher said.
 A spinoff company is working on more plans, including an 800-foot project that consists of multiple short spans. ''We see single 300-foot spans in the future,'' Dr. Dagher said. ''We're excited about taking this to the next level.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOLDING UP: The Neal Bridge is taking the daily onslaught of traffic in Maine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D4) GRAPHIC: TOTALLY TUBULAR: A technology that uses fiber-reinforced plastic arches filled with concrete may be a solution for replacing some of the nation's deteriorating bridges.
A SERIES OF TUBES: The arches are tubes of carbon-fiber and glass-fiber fabric that are covered with decking and filled with concrete at the site. The decking is then covered with a thin layer of concrete, followed by soil, gravel and asphalt. (Source: University of Maine) (GRAPHIC BY MIKA GRONDAHL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPOSITE MATERIALS (91%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); PLASTICS (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (70%); FABRICS (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); RESINS (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (65%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); RAY LAHOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



365 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Paul L. Bloom, Who Tackled Overcharging by Oil Companies, Dies at 70

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Paul L. Bloom, a lawyer in the Carter administration's Energy Department who pursued oil companies for overcharging and won billions of dollars in refunds for customers, the government and others, died Saturday in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 70.
 The cause was pancreatic and colon cancer, his family said. 
 James Schlesinger, as the first secretary of the new Department of Energy, appointed Mr. Bloom in 1977 to investigate oil companies' compliance with oil pricing regulations. President Richard M. Nixon had initiated oil price controls as a temporary measure at the time of the Arab oil embargo of 1973, but enforcement of the complicated regulations was lax.
 Mr. Bloom, as special counsel for compliance, ended up accusing 33 of the 35 largest oil producers and refiners of overcharges amounting to $11 billion. By 1987, the government had collected $6 billion in refunds as a result of Mr. Bloom's suits.
 But other than the pleasures of success, it was often a thankless job. Oil companies complained, with some justification, that the rules, and Mr. Bloom's interpretations, were maddeningly arcane. Economists said price controls, by definition, weakened market efficiency. Consumer groups criticized Mr. Bloom as being too willing to settle cases, often on terms favorable to the industry.
 Mr. Bloom, who had been a natural resources lawyer in New Mexico, responded boldly. ''I had to make myself obnoxious or nothing would have ever been accomplished,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1980.
 The Carter administration began to address oil pricing by appointing a task force, of which Mr. Bloom was a member. The task force found lack of direction and inertia among the 350 lawyers and accountants monitoring oil prices: some auditors assigned to individual refineries had moved television sets into their offices and spent the day watching soap operas, Mr. Bloom told The Times.
 The National Journal reported that an auditing team had been allowed to remain at Mobil in New York, even though the company's operations had moved to Houston. 
 The task force decided one person should be given great authority to administer both current enforcement and cleaning up the muddle of the past. Mr. Bloom was given the job. He beefed up his staff of professionals to more than 600 plus several hundred auditors employed by private firms, and cast a wide net of subpoenas. Fortune magazine in 1980 said he ''proved to be a bear of a cop.''
 The National Journal said in 1980 that Mr. Bloom played a high stakes poker game with the oil companies, making strong accusations and brandishing the real, but unspoken, threat of criminal action. The companies complained that the government's rules were almost impossible to follow: for one thing, they required companies to divide oil from the same general area into ''old'' oil, which was subject to price controls, and more recently discovered oil, which could be sold for the market price.
 Mr. Bloom angered critics of the oil companies by allowing them to put some overcharges that could not readily be refunded into domestic oil and gas exploration.
 Asked by The National Journal in 1980 if he was letting companies off the hook by letting them do what they would normally do on their own, he said, ''I don't think I have to apologize to anybody, if I can get them to spend that money here instead of Nigeria or the North Sea.''
 Paul Laurence Bloom was born in Norfolk, Va., on May 14, 1939, and spent his boyhood in Chicago. He graduated from law school at the University of New Mexico, then worked for New Mexico as a water and natural resources lawyer.
 When President Ronald Reagan took office in 1981, he ended oil price controls, but kept a smaller staff to finish up Mr. Bloom's cases. Mr. Bloom returned to New Mexico, where he worked as a private lawyer, sometimes representing Indian tribes.
 Mr. Bloom is survived by his wife, Marjorie; his sons Adam and Judah; and his daughter, Ester Bloom.
 One of Mr. Bloom's last acts as the Carter administration was ending was to give four charities $1 million each from $4 million in unexpected refunds from a major oil company. The Reagan administration complained that he had given away taxpayers' money, but he maintained he had given the money to those who could best reach poor people with heating needs.
 In the end, the charities distributed part of the money themselves and returned some to the government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); SUBPOENAS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); AUDITS (68%); POKER (60%); COLORECTAL CANCER (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



366 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Campaigns Take On Rosier Hue

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

DATELINE: The American economy is back 

 BODY:
or so some of the country's biggest advertisers are saying in new campaigns.
 It may be a sign that the recession is ending, or it may be a sign that consumers are sick of hearing about it. 
 While economists and investors study housing starts and gross domestic product predictions to measure economic vibrancy, General Electric, Bank of America and other companies are using commercials to proclaim that America's future is bright. And that may be something of a self-fulfilling prophecy.
 ''These are big companies demonstrating market leadership that will help shape public opinion,'' Robert Scalea, chief executive for North America at the Brand Union, a branding firm that is part of the WPP Group, said. ''Marketing is always a reflection of societal values, and many times, for smarter marketers, is a driver of them.'' 
 The ads do not equivocate. ''The American renewal is happening right now,'' G.E. spots say. Bank of America closes its commercial with: ''America. Growing stronger every day.'' Ads for Levi's quote Walt Whitman's ''America'' and ''Pioneers! O Pioneers!'' 
 Marketers, by definition, sell things, but they are sometimes able to capture the mood of a country as they do so. Last fall, when stalwart firms like Lehman Brothers disappeared almost overnight, companies emphasized their trustworthiness and lengthy histories in commercials. In the spring, when it seemed as if the recession would go on endlessly, companies compared this era to the Depression and discussed how they had weathered that period. Now, marketers' emphasis on American pride and an economic comeback suggests that the air is starting to crackle with optimism.
 On a more functional level, once banks like Bank of America begin lending again, corporations like General Electric begin hiring again and everyone begins advertising again, the economic recovery will have some fuel. 
 But a message that economic woes are over may seem insensitive to some viewers. ''I was looking at the G.E. one, and my first reaction was, everyone in there is smiling and happy, and it's a very bright scene,'' said Timothy B. Heath, a marketing professor at Miami University's business school. ''It seemed almost too cheery, given where a lot of people are right now.'' 
 Bank of America's spot begins with lights turning on all over the country in quick succession -- at museums, at stadiums, in small towns. ''Every business day, Bank of America lends nearly $3 billion,'' the narrator says, ''in every corner of the economy.'' It is the first spot in an estimated $40 million campaign that will run through early next year and include more television commercials, along with print and online ads.
 The spot was completed this summer, but Bank of America held it until about two weeks ago.
 ''We really waited for the proper time to put it on air, and we believe the time is now,'' said Meredith Verdone, brand, advertising and research executive for Bank of America. She checked with the bank's economists, and public policy and public relations executives to make sure they thought a recovery was beginning, she said. 
 Another part of the bank's decision was sensing the national mood.
 ''A lot of that is just gut,'' David Lubars, chairman and chief creative officer of the advertising agency BBDO North America, part of the Omnicom Group, which created the ad, said. ''People are starting to look for opportunities to help them move ahead, and this feels like the right time to talk about that.''
 Of course, from some perspectives, Bank of America contributed to the economy's skid in the first place. Its chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, who recently announced his resignation, agreed last fall to acquire the faltering Merrill Lynch, but did not disclose some information about bonuses and losses at Merrill to shareholders. The decisions have made him and the company the subject of investigations by the New York attorney general and regulators. And the company accepted funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, opening it to some criticism.
 ''There were a lot of question marks, particularly when we took the TARP dollars, and everyone was questioning what we were doing with those dollars,'' Ms. Verdone said. Now, ''that is not as much of an overhang as it was,'' she said, but ''the headwinds are pretty strong -- it's hard to get our voice heard. So this was an opportunity for us to tell the role that we're playing in the country's recovery.'' 
 G.E. is taking a similar approach. Television ads show G.E. employees working in labs and factories. ''Manufacturing is part of G.E.'s belief that the American renewal is making things right here in America,'' says one spot. Another talks about G.E.'s ''creating the advanced technologies that create jobs.''
 ''We really wanted to focus on the idea that G.E.'s creating and manufacturing key technologies in America that are helping to drive and build the U.S. economy,'' Judy Hu, global executive director of advertising and branding for G.E., said. 
 G.E. declined to discuss the cost of the campaign, but its advertising spending rose 5.1 percent in the first six months of this year, compared with the same period last year, to about $550 million, according to TNS Media Intelligence. The campaign, created by BBDO, will continue with ads in print, on television and online throughout the fall. 
 Smaller advertisers, too, are picking up the pro-America theme. In July, Levi's began a campaign about a redefined America, running ads on television, in print, outdoor and online that ''bring out the pioneering spirit of Levi's and America today,'' said Megan O'Connor, director of digital marketing for Levi's, part of Levi Strauss & Company. Created by Wieden & Kennedy, the spots show images of young people set to recordings of Whitman's poems. Tag lines in the print and outdoor campaigns are even more specific to the economy, including ''Will work for better times.'' 
 Also over the summer -- on Flag Day, patriotically -- New Balance began running a spot filmed in Skowhegan, Me., where it has a shoe factory. 
 ''We're here to stay,'' a worker says over sun-soaked shots of forests, green fields and American flags. ''Here we are, 2009, still making shoes in the U.S.A.''
 Christine Madigan, the director of global marketing and brand management for New Balance, said the company had long emphasized its made-in-America shoes, and older consumers had liked the message. But this campaign seemed to find a new audience.
 ''What's new is, it's actually younger consumers,'' she said. 
 And although the commercial is upbeat, the reason it is resounding with consumers may not be.
 ''For the first time in a long time, younger consumers are coming out of high school, out of universities, and are not able to get a job,'' Ms. Madigan said. ''They are saying, 'Wow, I can't believe there aren't any jobs in the United States of America.' ''
 The depressing realities may partly explain why these upbeat ads appeal to marketers.
 ''The truth is, we want to believe they're right,'' Mr. Heath of Miami University said. ''Deep down inside, even skeptics want to be hopeful.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column on Tuesday, about companies that have adopted a more positive tone for their marketing campaigns, rendered the name of a global advertising holding company incorrectly. It is WPP, not the WPP Group. (The company dropped the ''Group'' from its name when it reincorporated in Ireland last year.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: General Electric has begun running spots saying a renewal ''is happening right now.'' They emphasize the company's commitment to the country by featuring workers in American factories
 Bank of America's new campaign is estimated at $40 million, and the first ad, highlighting lending, appeared two weeks ago.(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BRANDING (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); WPP PLC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (56%); WPP (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



367 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: 'Boneless' Wings, the Cheaper Bite

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; John Collins Rudolf contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Just in time for football season, the Lion's Head Tavern in New York City stopped selling 25-cent chicken wings on Monday nights. In Tucson, a sports bar called O'Malleys on Fourth scrapped its fall special of a dozen wings on Monday nights for $4. 
 And in restaurants from Sarasota to Seattle, an improbable poultry part is showing up on menus: a little chunk of chicken breast that is fried and sauced and sold, with marketer's brio, as a ''boneless wing.'' 
 All this is happening because wholesale chicken prices have turned upside down. The once-lowly wing is selling at a premium over what has long been the gold standard of poultry parts, the skinless boneless chicken breast. 
 Like the tail that wags the dog, the wings are now flapping the chicken. 
 Mike Bell knows chicken prices. The logistics and purchasing manager for Buffalo Wild Wings, a national chain with about 600 restaurants, Mr. Bell will buy 57 million pounds of chicken wings this year. Describing recent conversations with poultry processors, he said: ''Basically a whole bunch of them are throwing their hands in the air and saying, 'I don't know what's going on. We've never seen it this way.' '' 
 In seven of the last 11 months, wholesale wing prices have been higher than breast prices, a reversal in a market where breasts usually reign supreme. In September, the average wholesale price for whole chicken wings in the Northeast was $1.48 a pound, according to the Agriculture Department. Yet skinless boneless breasts were $1.21 a pound. 
 A year earlier, wings sold for 94 cents and breasts for $1.15, and as recently as May 2008, skinless boneless breasts were selling for 57 cents more than wings.
 The wholesale price shift has generally not been reflected in supermarkets, where grocers appear to be trying to preserve their margins on breast meat. Nationally on average, breasts are $2.80 a pound at retail, still 83 cents more than wings. However, some grocers are exploiting the wholesale price drop to run aggressive sales on breasts.
 The recession is the cause of the price flip-flop.
 Restaurants, normally big buyers of breast meat, slashed orders as millions of people cut back on eating out, and breast prices slumped. But demand for wings has remained strong, partly because people perceived them as a cheap luxury.
 Adding to the demand: the brisk growth of restaurant chains focusing on wings, like Atomic Wings, Wingstop and Wing Zone. Several chains have been remarking this year about how much business is up in the recession. The major public company in this group, Buffalo Wild Wings, reported a 27 percent earnings jump in the first half of the year.
 Eventually, as the economy improves, wing and breast prices may return to their traditional places. But for now, the triumph of wings over breasts has wing partisans celebrating.
 ''Everybody was into breasts because it's lower fat,'' said Andrew F. Smith, editor of the Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America. ''But to me the breast is tasteless. I like fat, and most people do. The wings have fat.'' Yet the high price of wings has also accelerated a development that bothers wing purists: that oxymoron dipped in hot sauce, the boneless wing. 
 Boneless wings, increasingly promoted by restaurants, are not wings at all, but slices of breast meat deep-fried like wings and served with the same sauces -- a bit like a spicy Chicken McNugget.
 Buffalo Wild Wings began selling boneless wings six years ago, and the item has grown to 19 percent of sales, compared with 20 percent for regular wings. As wing prices rose and breast prices fell this year, other chains emulated the move. Wingstop, a 450-restaurant chain, began offering boneless wings in all stores this summer. Even Wendy's, which does not sell regular wings, added boneless wings in June. 
 For wing-centric restaurants, boneless wings are a way to attract customers who may not like the messiness of wings, which have to be chewed off the bone. And with prices upside down, the boneless wings now act as a hedge, with the lower-cost breast meat offsetting higher wing costs. 
 But wing lovers sneer.
 ''A wing is a wing, and a wing has a bone,'' said Anita Freedlander, the owner of Rusty's Family Restaurant and Sports Grille in Tucson, which specializes in wings and does not sell the boneless variety. 
 Ms. Freedlander said she would most likely be forced to raise prices before the end of the year. Already her ingredient costs have risen to 45 percent of the menu price for wings, well above the 30 to 35 percent that many restaurants favor.
 Restaurants pay extra to buy their wings pre-cut. Adam Lippin, the owner of Atomic Wings, a 10-restaurant chain based in New York, paid $1.70 a pound for wings this month. Last year, he said, his average wing cost was about $1.10 a pound. 
 ''It's at a really scary kind of place,'' Mr. Lippin said of the price today. 
 At the Lion's Head Tavern, near Columbia in Manhattan, the owners recently ended a long tradition of cheap wings on Monday nights. 
 ''The whole idea of the discounted wings is to sell beer,'' said the co-owner Gust Hookanson. ''It became a little too much of a cost.''
 The story was the same at O'Malleys in Tucson, which last fall had a wing special to go along with ''Monday Night Football.'' ''We couldn't afford to do it anymore,'' said Rick Cano, the general manager. 
 Buffalo wings, as they are commonly called, are said to have started in Buffalo in the 1960s, when a bar owner took the unloved chicken parts, cooked them up and added sauce. They have become a classic American finger food -- and a standby in bars during football season. 
 Most experts predict that wing prices will continue to rise at least until the Super Bowl in February, when a lot of wings are sold and prices peak. 
 Even afterward, demand looks set to remain strong. Pizza Hut announced this month that it would expand the availability of its wings menu, which it calls WingStreet; in 3,000 stores today, the menu will be added to 2,000 stores in the near future.
 Adam J. Scott, a founder of Wing Zone, an Atlanta-based chain with 80 restaurants in 20 states, said the days of cheap wings might be gone forever. That is, unless something changes on the supply side.
 ''If they can figure out how to grow chickens with four wings,'' Mr. Scott said, ''we'd be in really great shape.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wings being prepared in the kitchen at Rusty's Family Restaurant and Sports Grille in Tucson.
 Carlos Guzman watched Gilbert Garcia finish off a basket of wings last week at Rusty's.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (92%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (88%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); POULTRY PROCESSING (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DINING OUT TRENDS (60%)

COMPANY: BRIO AS (71%); BUFFALO WILD WINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: BWLD (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



368 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Behind The Laughter

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Conan O'Brien has been making some pretty rough jokes about Newark, which has led to a (mostly) mock feud between the late-night host and Newark Mayor Cory Booker. 
 O'Brien joked that the mayor was establishing a program to improve the health of the city's residents, then deadpanned: ''The health care program would consist of a bus ticket out of Newark.'' 
 He did a video bit in which he praised the city's ''thriving arts scene'' (while showing a graffiti-scarred wall); its ''four-star lodging'' (shots of abandoned, gutted, rusting vehicles); and its ''world-class live theater'' (a peep show). 
 He threatened to form an alliance with the mayors of nearby municipalities, thus ''creating a geographic toilet seat around the city of Newark,'' making it possible to flush the city down the figurative bowl.
 The mayor came up with his own YouTube videos in response and, believe it or not, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton weighed in at one point as a mock peace negotiator.
 Conan seems like a nice fellow, and I doubt that he harbors any malice toward Newark. But he and his audience are having fun taunting a city that, like many others across the U.S., is in a desperately tragic situation: poverty-stricken, run down, often unsafe, its children and teenagers in too many instances going nowhere fast.
 Whether it's Newark, Detroit, parts of Chicago, South-Central Los Angeles, Camden, N.J. -- take your pick -- we've looked the other way for decades as the residents of hard-core inner-city neighborhoods struggled with overwhelming, life-threatening problems and a chronic shortage of resources, financial and otherwise.
 We're having an intense national debate over whether to move ahead with nation-building in Afghanistan and to continue protecting the population in places like Kabul and Kandahar while all but ignoring the violence that is consuming the lives of boys and girls in Chicago, America's third-largest city.
 Dozens of boys and girls of school-age and younger are murdered in Chicago every year. One hundred were killed there last year, according to the police. The blood of the young is spattered daily on the stoops, sidewalks and streets of American cities from coast to coast, and we won't even take notice unless, for example, we can engage in the ghoulish delight of watching the murder played over and over again on video.
 In Newark, where some of the streets do look as bad as the scenes that were part of Conan's comedy bit, the unemployment rate is 14.7 percent. Keeping kids in high school long enough to graduate is difficult. Drug dealing is a fallback employment option for men and boys who can't find legitimate work.
 Other cities have the same problems, some to a greater degree. So what are we doing? While mulling the prospect of sending up to 40,000 additional troops to Afghanistan, we've stood idly by, mute as a stone, as school districts across the nation have bounced 40,000 teachers out of their jobs over the past year.
 That should tell you all you need to know about twisted national priorities.
 Even as teachers by the tens of thousands are walking the plank to unemployment, we're learning, as The Times reported last week, that one in every 10 young male dropouts is locked up in jail or juvenile detention. As if that weren't gruesome enough, we find that the figure for blacks is one in four. What would it take to get the perpetual crisis facing these young people onto the radar screens of the rest of America?
 Conan was just trying to be funny, but the reality behind his late-night humor is horrifying. In Detroit, the median sale price of a house has hovered around $8,000. Seventy percent of all murders in the Motor City go unsolved. Joblessness is off the charts. The school system is a catastrophe.
 I remember driving around Camden, which is right outside of Philadelphia, on a rainy afternoon. Young people with nothing to do -- they had dropped out of school and had little or no chance of finding a job -- were gathered on porches, saying little, staring the hours away. I had on a suit and was driving a nice car. More than one person that I approached thought I was either buying or selling drugs.
 The inner cities have been in a recession for decades. They're in a depression now. Myriad issues desperately need to be addressed: employment, education, the foreclosure crisis, crime, alcohol and drug abuse, health care (including mental health treatment and counseling), child care for working parents and on and on and on.
 Conan's jokes would carry a silver lining if they could somehow prompt more people to think more seriously about what's really going on in cities like Newark. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); THEATER (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); HEALTH CARE (56%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

PERSON: CONAN O'BRIEN (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



369 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WARD, RALPH E.

 BODY:
WARD--Ralph E.,88, died peacefully at Greenwich Hospital on October 7, 2009 after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife of twenty-eight years, Elaine Simon Ward of Darien, CT, and Manhattan, and his five children, Sarah Ward Hogan of Mont Vernon, NH, Richard R. Ward of River Falls, WI, Thomas D. Ward of Sarasota, FL, John B. Ward, of Darien, CT and James R. Ward of Easton, CT. from his marriage to the late Eugenia E. McManigal as well as fifteen grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Born in Scotch Plains, NJ. 
PUB-DATE: February 26, 1921,

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); MARRIAGE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); ARMIES (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); AIR FORCES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LACROSSE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (67%); APPOINTMENTS (64%); CHEMICALS (61%); CHEMICALS MFG (61%); FOOD MFG (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (80%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (63%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (80%); JPM (LSE) (80%); 8634 (TSE) (80%); UNIA (AMS) (63%); UNA (BIT) (63%); UNA (AMS) (63%); UN (NYSE) (63%); ULVR (LSE) (63%); UL (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



370 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Urges Hewing to Peace Process in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BELFAST, Northern Ireland 

 BODY:
Fourteen years ago, Hillary Rodham Clinton stood next to her husband in this weary, strife-torn city as a crowd of 70,000 gathered to watch President Bill Clinton light a Christmas tree.
 On Monday, Mrs. Clinton, now the secretary of state, addressed a more select audience, 100 lawmakers, in the imposing chamber of Northern Ireland's Stormont assembly -- exhorting them to stick with a peace process that the Clintons have made something of a family project.
 It is a project in need of repair, with the historic power-sharing arrangement between Protestants and Catholics showing signs of strain because of a dispute over local control of the police and the courts. 
 ''No one ever said it was going to be easy,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a speech that was both a pep talk and a personal intervention. ''It is not easy in any legislature, as I know from experience, under the best of circumstances.''
 Mrs. Clinton is one of the first senior foreign government officials invited to speak at Stormont, and she recalled the role of Mr. Clinton in championing the negotiations that resulted in the Good Friday Agreement in 1998, opening the way for the restoration of this legislature.
 Sitting at the horseshoe-shaped table before her were two of the most implacable foes from the era known as the Troubles: Gerry Adams, leader of Sinn Fein, a party once closely linked to the Irish Republican Army; and the Rev. Ian Paisley, the strident loyalist who rallied the unionists.
 ''I know the divisions within Northern Ireland are not fully healed,'' Mrs. Clinton said, citing Belfast's still-segregated neighborhoods. ''But given time, and given the leadership that each of you can provide, the torn fabric of society will be woven together, stitch by stitch, choice by choice.''
 Northern Ireland, she said, serves as a model for peacemaking everywhere in the world, and indeed, George J. Mitchell, now the Obama administration's Middle East envoy, helped broker the Good Friday Agreement.
 Some of those gains, however, are now at risk. The standoff between Catholic and Protestant leaders over transferring authority over the police and the courts to Belfast from London -- which is partly about money and partly about politics -- could stall the process of devolving power to Northern Ireland.
 Security is an issue, too. Last March, two British soldiers and a policeman were killed in politically motivated shootings that spooked a country where sectarian violence had seemed a relic of a darker time.
 Mrs. Clinton said the United States did not want to meddle -- a line that drew a chorus of ''hear, hear'' from the unionist side of the chamber -- but she gently prodded both sides to settle their differences.
 ''My hope is that you will achieve what you set out to do, to complete the process of devolution,'' she said.
 The speech was one of the most heartfelt Mrs. Clinton has delivered as secretary of state, peppered with reminiscences about the 1995 tree-lighting ceremony and five subsequent trips to Belfast.
 Mrs. Clinton received thumping applause from the Catholic side of the chamber but a more restrained reception from the Protestant side. The Democratic Unionist Party, worried about weakening links to Britain, is resisting the plan to transfer authority for the police and the courts.
 Martin McGuinness, the Catholic deputy first minister, who supports the transfer, hailed the speech. ''Quite clearly, Secretary Clinton is intellectually, emotionally and politically engaged in the process,'' said Mr. McGuinness, who was once an I.R.A. commander. 
 Peter Robinson, the Protestant first minister and a former deputy to Mr. Paisley, said, ''To make any speech in the Northern Ireland assembly and no one walks out -- that's an achievement.'' In fact, a few unionists slipped out just after the address, skipping the standing ovation.
 Later, Mrs. Clinton met with businesspeople to discuss ways to increase American investment in Northern Ireland. She announced that NaviNet, a health care communications company based in Cambridge, Mass., would open a research and development center in Belfast, creating 60 jobs.
 The State Department has named an economic envoy to Northern Ireland, Declan Kelly, and he was on hand to drum up more business. Mrs. Clinton said the political tensions should not deter investors, though she noted that peace and economic prosperity went ''hand in hand.''
 After a stop at Belfast's Victorian city hall, where the tree-lighting occurred, Mrs. Clinton left for a two-day visit to Moscow. 
 The United States is still trying to corral Russian support for tougher sanctions against Iran if it refuses to negotiate over its nuclear program. And it wants to work out details of a new agreement that will allow American planes carrying combat-related material for Afghanistan to fly over Russian territory.
 On Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton is to meet President Dmitri A. Medvedev, who has invited her to his dacha outside Moscow. The United States hopes the ''more relaxed setting'' will help the conversation, said Philip H. Gordon, the assistant secretary of state for Europe and Eurasian affairs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton after a meeting Monday with Belfast businesspeople. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHAL McNAUGHTON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); RELIGION (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); ARMED FORCES (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); SHOOTINGS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); SINN FEIN (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



371 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: 32 Voices Louder Than Limbaugh's

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The N.F.L. has a policy for just about everything. Tucking in shirts. Use of cellphones or felt pens in celebration of self. Smarting off at inappropriate moments. Wipe that smirk off your face, mister, you're not in junior high school anymore. And that's just for owners.
 So it is no surprise that the N.F.L. also has a written policy governing the acceptance -- and let us hope rejection -- of potential owners. The current club owners seem to have the power to turn down somebody just because they don't like the cut of his jib, whatever a jib is. 
 This is reassuring given the recent announcement by Rush Limbaugh, a chap who talks on the radio, that he is interested in buying into the St. Louis Rams. Limbaugh is seeking a partnership with Dave Checketts, who has hitherto amassed a good reputation in New York, Salt Lake City and St. Louis. 
 When observed recently, Limbaugh was braying with glee because the American city of Chicago had been turned down in its bid to host the 2016 Olympic Games. His vicious delight had nothing to do with the dubious economics of holding the Olympics or the mixed support from the citizens of Chicago. He depicted the decision as a defeat for President Obama, who had traveled to Copenhagen to stick up for his adopted home city. 
 This just in: occasionally, the St. Louis Rams play the Chicago Bears at Soldier Field. Presumably, Bears' fans would remember Limbaugh's double chins quivering with joy at the rejection of the Olympic bid. This is just the kind of divisive baggage the N.F.L. would love to see in a potential owner.
 But Limbaugh comes with other weighty history. This is the bloke who, after an ugly brawl in the N.B.A. in 2004, recommended that the league be renamed the Thug Basketball Association. He also likened the two teams to the Crips and the Bloods, two national gangs. Nice. This posture may play well out where car radios are tuned to Limbaugh, but it should not play with N.F.L. owners and the cities they represent. 
 Limbaugh went on television Monday morning with Jamie Gangel of MSNBC, insisting he's not such a bad fellow, and surely not a racist, but let's not lull ourselves into accepting the way he spews code words to his constituency. He is not about economic conservatism or political conservatism, which have an honorable place. The quivering anger toward President Obama is quite visceral in Dave Checketts's new best friend.
 DeMaurice Smith, the executive director of the N.F.L. Players Association, is not fooled. Last week Smith called upon the players to speak out about Limbaugh.
 The owners should know Limbaugh, who was foisted upon them by ESPN six years ago and said Donovan McNabb of the Eagles was praised as a quarterback mostly because he is African-American. Limbaugh quickly resigned. 
 Owners are entitled to their political beliefs but, because the N.F.L. has made admirable steps in hiring minority coaches and general managers, letting a virulent exhibitionist like Limbaugh into the club would be a bad sign to players and fans. No matter how much money he has, he would drag the whole league down toward his level.
 Some players have already said publicly they would never join a team even partially owned by Limbaugh. Antipathy by free agents could hurt any franchise, particularly the Rams, who have lost 15 straight games. 
 But Limbaugh is not yet a partial owner. According to a person who is legally constrained from speaking about the deal, Checketts and Limbaugh are not friends but were matched by a company that puts investors together. Checketts would run the team and Limbaugh would be a limited partner, not the major investor. 
 Checketts could not move the Rams under N.F.L. rules because he is also an owner of the St. Louis Blues hockey team, and N.F.L. owners can be associated only with teams in the same city. (Checketts's involvement with Real Salt Lake of Major League Soccer would not count.) 
 It is hard to understand why Checketts would want to sully his clean image, but the N.F.L. could save him from a rare bad judgment. The N.F.L. must approve all potential owners, even for a sliver of a share, through acceptance by 24 of the 32 franchises. The N.F.L. has turned down potential owners because it did not like their financing, or their background, or the smirk on their face.
 The league policy on ownership transfers reads thusly:
 ''In conducting this investigation and evaluation (of a proposed owner), the N.F.L. Commissioner's office and the N.F.L. member clubs will consider all pertinent information. The ultimate decision on the purchaser's application for membership in the N.F.L. will be based on the N.F.L. member clubs' assessment of whether the proposed ownership is likely to result in successful operation of the club, with acceptable ownership and management operating in compliance with all league rules and policies and in the best interests of the league. This assessment will be made by the member clubs in their sole discretion. Prospective buyers and sellers should bear in mind that the N.F.L. reserves the right not to approve any application for membership.''
 Bless the N.F.L.'s officious gray heart for having this policy in place. And by the way, tuck in your shirt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); OLYMPICS (88%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); BASKETBALL (71%); GANGS (67%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); ATHLETES (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CONSERVATISM (63%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS RAMS (83%); CHICAGO BEARS (82%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



372 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Little Restored Schoolhouse

BYLINE: By GEORGE ALLEN and PAUL GOLDMAN. 
George Allen, a Republican, is a former senator and governor of Virginia. Paul Goldman is a former chairman of the Virginia Democratic Party.

DATELINE: Richmond, Va. 

 BODY:
 ''MORE than a half-century after Brown v. Board of Education, the dream of a world-class education is still being deferred all across the country,'' President Obama declared in a recent speech to the N.A.A.C.P. ''There are overcrowded classrooms, and crumbling schools, and corridors of shame in America.'' So we have come together -- one Republican, one Democrat -- to develop a common-sense solution to fix the problem of crumbling schools in a manner that doesn't require the federal government to tax, borrow or spend one dime. Our School Modernization and Revitalization Tax Credit -- Smart Credit -- is also guaranteed to create hundreds of thousands of private-sector jobs, critical at a moment when unemployment has reached a 26-year high and threatens to climb even higher. 
 Go to the Department of Education Web site and search ''How Old Are America's Public Schools?'' Click on the very first link and the ''shame'' President Obama spoke of becomes evident: The average age of America's schools is 42 years. Twenty-eight percent of our schools were built more than 50 years ago. ''After 40 years, a school building begins rapid deterioration,'' announces the department study. Worse still is that this analysis was done a decade ago, and too little has been done since. 
 Several studies show a statistical connection between outmoded schools and educational underachievement and the schools most in need of modernization are disproportionately in inner-city neighborhoods and rural areas. But to fix these schools, Congress need only make a simple, one-sentence change to a little-known clause in the federal tax code. 
 In 1986, President Ronald Reagan and Congress created a 20 percent federal historic rehabilitation tax credit. Generally speaking, rehabilitation projects involving structures at least 50 years old can qualify for this credit, which is equal to roughly 20 percent of the modernization cost. It is widely acclaimed for having created jobs, restored buildings and spurred economic activity. 
 This credit is applicable when an aging local school building is renovated for a different use by private investors. But it is not should the same investors want to invest the same money to turn the same building into an up-to-date local school. The I.R.S. ''prior use'' rule disallows such credits in the latter situation. 
 But if this ''prior use'' rule were amended to allow for school rehabilitation, then decaying school buildings could be sold to private investors, modernized and then leased back to school authorities. This approach has already been proven to work and save taxpayers considerable money. When Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia was the mayor of Richmond, he used this basic sale-leaseback arrangement to update a local school, Maggie L. Walker High, built during the Depression, and transform it into a regional magnet school that reopened in 2001 and now serves the top students in Central Virginia. (This shift from local to regional school satisfied the ''prior use'' rule.) 
 Mr. Kaine saved local taxpayers millions in this $20 million renovation because Virginia has a 25 percent state historic rehabilitation tax credit, on top of the 20 percent federal tax credit. Other states have their own special incentives, and more are now considering them. In Virginia, when the various financial factors are taken into account, the tax credit approach greatly lowers the costs to local taxpayers -- by as much as 33 percent -- when compared with the conventional approach of financing construction through school bonds.
 Critics may scream that our approach ''sells our schools'' to the private sector. But what national interest is served by denying local officials access to private capital to provide schoolchildren the opportunities they deserve? Besides, our market system works best when there is a level playing field for both the private and public sectors, and this plan wouldn't preclude local governments from still using the traditional ''borrow to build'' strategy if they choose.
 With the Smart Credit, previously unaffordable projects now become affordable. Moreover, we eliminate the costly political and bureaucratic favoritism now pitting one locality against another in a fight for the limited school construction money in the stimulus plan.
 Potentially, there may be $100 billion in tax-credit-eligible school modernization projects nationwide. Now is the perfect moment, with prices for construction materials down, to unleash the private sector to create tens of thousands of jobs while making schools better for millions of students.
 We have talked to business investors. If Congress will amend the law, we already have the money pledged to modernize more schools, at one time, than has ever been done in any locality in Virginia's history. The same is possible for your community. 
 America faces many challenges, but fixing this ''prior use'' rule is easy. With all due respect to the president, the biggest ''corridors of shame'' will be the halls of Congress if our federal lawmakers fail to act. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); TIM KAINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



373 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS SPLIT ON A HEALTH TAX ON COSTLY PLANS

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A proposed tax on high-cost, or ''Cadillac,'' health insurance plans has touched off a fierce clash between the Senate and the House as they wrestle over how to pay for legislation that would provide health benefits to millions of uninsured Americans.
 Supporters, including many senators, say that the tax is essential to tamping down medical spending and that over 10 years it would generate more than $200 billion, nearly a fourth of what is needed to pay for the legislation.
 Critics, including House members and labor unions, say the tax would quickly spiral out of control and hit middle-class workers, people more closely associated with minivans than Cadillacs.
 The tax, a provision of the bill to be voted on Tuesday by the Senate Finance Committee, is one of the few remaining proposals under consideration by Congress that budget experts say could lead directly to a reduction in health care spending over the long term, by prompting employers and employees to buy cheaper insurance. Whether it remains in the bill is emerging as a test of the commitment by President Obama and his party to slowing the steep rise of medical expenses. 
 It is also a prime example of the major differences still to be bridged by Democrats as health care legislation advances to floor debate in both houses.
 Under the Finance Committee bill, the tax would be imposed beginning in 2013 on employer- sponsored health plans with total premiums exceeding $8,000 for individuals and $21,000 for families, regardless of whether the coverage was paid for by the employer, the individual or both. The tax would be paid by insurers, who would be expected to pass along the cost to customers. 
 Critics say that would mean an increase in premiums or in out-of-pocket expenses for employees, raising medical costs for individuals and families. 
 Supporters say the more likely prospect is that employers would bargain-hunt or take other steps to avoid the tax, putting pressure on insurers to offer cheaper coverage and slowing the rise in medical costs for everyone. 
 In a preliminary estimate, the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation calculated that absent any such employer efforts, 14 percent of family health policies and 19 percent of individual policies would be hit by the tax in 2013. By 2019, according to the estimate, 37 percent of family policies and 41 percent of individual policies would be affected. Those numbers rise over time in these calculations because although the initial tax threshold would increase with the economy's overall inflation, premiums would be expected to rise even faster. 
 Many Democratic senators, led by the Finance Committee chairman, Max Baucus of Montana, like the idea of the tax, and Mr. Obama embraced it in his speech to Congress on Sept. 9.
 ''This reform will charge insurance companies a fee for their most expensive policies, which will encourage them to provide greater value for the money,'' the president said then. ''This modest change could help hold down the cost of health care for all of us in the long run.'' 
 Congress has also heard from many economists, Republicans and Democrats alike, who support the tax. 
 But House Democrats, led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the chamber's chief tax-writer, oppose the idea, as do labor unions and businesses. Ms. Pelosi last week floated the idea of taxing insurers' ''windfall profits'' as a possible alternative, to supplement the House's main revenue raiser, an income tax surcharge on the nation's highest earners.
 At least 173 House Democrats, two-thirds of the party caucus, have signed a letter to Ms. Pelosi voicing opposition to the insurance tax . 
 ''The tax, supposedly aimed at Cadillac health plans, would affect millions of middle-class people,'' said Representative Joe Courtney, Democrat of Connecticut. ''The American people soundly rejected the idea when it was proposed by Republicans in elections last year.''
 Under current law, employer-paid premiums for health insurance are not taxable. Experts say this provides a big government subsidy for such coverage, and an incentive for businesses to provide better benefits in lieu of higher wages.
 In an unusual alliance reflecting the shared interest of some unions and businesses on the issue, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the United States Chamber of Commerce are mobilizing opposition to the tax.
 James P. Gelfand, senior manager of health policy at the Chamber of Commerce, said that if the tax is imposed, ''employers will have to reduce wages or benefits or increase cost-sharing.'' And, he said, ''employees will blame employers, not the government.''
 Leaders of organized labor, which in recent years has often negotiated for benefits in place of raises, descended on Capitol Hill last week to lobby against the tax, which could hit many health plans covering unionized workers. Larry Cohen, president of the Communications Workers of America, said at least half his members would be in health plans subject to the tax in 2013.
 John P. Yrchik, executive director of the Connecticut Education Association, has lobbied Mr. Courtney and other members of the state's Congressional delegation, noting that the tax would affect teachers in 30 percent of Connecticut towns. In some towns, Mr. Yrchik said, health insurance premiums for teachers' family policies already exceed $25,000.
 Aides to Mr. Baucus, the Finance Committee chairman, said the tax had numerous benefits, and predicted that employers and employees would shop for health plans to avoid it, forcing insurers to rein in costs. 
 They also cited projections by the Joint Committee on Taxation that about $142 billion of the 10-year total of $201 billion to be raised by the proposal would come from increased income and payroll taxes -- evidence, they said, that workers would receive increased wages if employers spent less on health benefits. 
 But the same expectation that employers would adjust their health plans to avoid the tax was cited by some critics as a potential harm for workers. 
 ''Employers and insurers will reduce their benefits to avoid paying the proposed tax,'' said Representative Pete Stark, the California Democrat who heads the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health. ''As a result, middle-class families will be forced to pay more for health care.''
 Some experts said that the tax was a complicated, backdoor way to tax employer-provided health benefits, and a number of them maintained that simply ending the tax exemption for such benefits would be a better approach. 
 Others said the tax would have an uneven impact, falling harder on businesses that, for instance, have older employees or are situated in high-cost regions.
 Robert H. Dobson, an actuary at Milliman, an employee benefits consulting firm, said, ''The high cost of so-called Cadillac plans has as much to do with the characteristics of the covered population as it does with the richness of the benefits.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representatives Joe Courtney, left, and John Boccieri outside the House chamber last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) CHART: A PROPOSAL TO TAX HIGH COST INSURANCE PLANS: A health care bill drafted by the Senate Finance Committee would impose an excise tax on certain high-cost health insurance policies.
EXAMPLE A: An employee chooses family coverage under an employersponsored health care policy covering major medical and dental care.
HOW IT WOULD WORK
 EXAMPLE B: An employee elects family coverage under an employersponsored major medical policy with a separate dental policy. The employee also contributes to a health care flexible spending arrangement. (Source: Senate Finance Committee) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOE COURTNEY (57%); JOHN BOCCIERI (57%); MAX BAUCUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



374 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Deal Advice On Merrill To Be Aired

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Facing mounting pressure from multiple investigations, Bank of America's board has voted to reveal the legal advice that the bank received late last year in its merger with Merrill Lynch.
 The stunning reversal, approved by the board Friday, removes a major hurdle in resolving a number of cases that have been brought against the bank, and may be part of the bank's strategy to try to exonerate several executives, including its retiring chief, Kenneth D. Lewis. 
 Alternatively, it could provide fresh evidence of the role that the bank's lawyers and executives played in failing to reveal losses at Merrill Lynch and bonuses Merrill paid out before the firms sealed their ill-fated merger. 
 On Monday, the bank notified the office of Andrew M. Cuomo, the attorney general of New York, of its decision in a letter that was reviewed by The New York Times.
 The disclosures may reveal the advice the bank received on the merger from its longtime law firm, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, as well as two general counsels: Timothy Mayopoulos, who was unexpectedly dismissed late last year, and Brian Moynihan, a senior executive who has emerged as a leading contender to replace Mr. Lewis. Several state attorneys general, Congressional lawmakers and regulators have been pressing the bank to reveal how its lawyers advised executives to deal with the disclosure of the losses and bonuses. Bank of America has faced intense scrutiny since receiving a $45 billion taxpayer lifeline.
 The bank dug in its heels for six months, citing the privacy rules that govern conversations between clients and their lawyers, even as pressure to turn over documents grew.
 The board reached a tipping point after bank executives held conversations over the last two weeks with the office of New York's attorney general, said the people briefed on the matter. 
 Mr. Cuomo's office threatened to charge individual bank executives, including Mr. Lewis, with wrongdoing, these people said. The bank also faced a deadline this week to provide a log of its private legal documents to a House committee.
 The bank notified Mr. Cuomo's office of its decision on Monday, and will do the same in a separate case pending against it by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The bank will also provide documents to investigators in Congress, Ohio and North Carolina, where the bank is headquartered. The legal and political cost of the bank's merger with Merrill, conceived in the heat of the financial crisis last fall, has threatened to overwhelm most of the benefits from the deal. Mr. Lewis, a 40-year veteran of the bank, announced his retirement two weeks ago. 
 At their core, the inquiries focus on why the bank kept central information about Merrill's bonuses and losses secret from its shareholders, many of whom said they might have voted against the deal before it closed on Jan. 1 if they had known the depth of Merrill's problems. The bank also negotiated a second bailout with the government last December, and it did not disclose those negotiations to shareholders.
 Each of the situations raises different questions about decisions made before shareholders voted to approve the merger, as well as about how the decisions were made and why they were not revealed. But providing the legal documents to Mr. Cuomo and other investigations offers the bank an opportunity to move toward a resolution. 
 The decision could also turn the spotlight onto Wachtell. Bank of America consulted Wachtell on whether to keep their discussions confidential from investigators. Wachtell lobbied to keep its advice protected, while other outside lawyers from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton as well as Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison urged that the information be turned over, according to two people briefed on the matter. 
 Bank management and the board supported the idea because they had nothing to hide and wanted the bank to move on, according to a person briefed on the board's thinking.
 A spokesman for Wachtell said the claim that it opposed waiving the attorney-client privilege was ''totally erroneous'' and maintained that Wachtell, Cleary, and Paul Weiss gave the same advice at all times. Wachtell remains a legal adviser to the bank but is working on fewer issues. 
 ''Waiving attorney-client privilege is exposing the good, bad and the ugly,'' said George B. Newhouse Jr., a former United States prosecutor who is now a lawyer with Brown, White and Newhouse. ''The advice of counsel could prove embarrassing to the corporation,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (64%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (91%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (78%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009



375 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Justices Will Hear Skilling Case

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to hear an appeal from Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former Enron Corporation chief executive who was sent to prison in 2006 for his role in the company's spectacular collapse. 
 Mr. Skilling argued that a law under which he had been convicted was unconstitutionally vague and that he had not received a fair trial in Houston, the city where Enron was based and which bore the brunt of its demise.
 The law Mr. Skilling challenged makes it a crime to ''deprive another of the intangible right of honest services.'' 
 Federal prosecutors have used the law to combat public corruption and fraud by corporate officials. The law does not require prosecutors to prove theft of money or property but only that defendants have been disloyal to or dishonest with their constituents or employers.
 Mr. Skilling argued that the court should require that prosecutions of employees of private companies be limited to cases in which defendants had obtained some private gain at the expense of their employers. 
 In his brief asking the Supreme Court to hear his case, Mr. Skilling said that his conduct ''even if wrongful in some way, was not the crime of honest-services fraud, because the government conceded that his acts were not intended to advance his own interests instead of Enron's.''
 Unless the law is interpreted to require proof of such a private gain by the defendant, Mr. Skilling's brief said, it has the effect of ''impermissibly criminalizing whatever wrongful or unethical corporate acts a given prosecutor decides to attack.''
 In January, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, largely accepted Mr. Skilling's characterization of the facts but declined to read a ''private gain'' limitation into the law. 
 The appeals court did vacate Mr. Skilling's original sentence of 24 years in prison and $45 million in restitution, saying the trial judge's sentencing calculations had been mistaken. Mr. Skilling has not yet been resentenced.
 The Supreme Court will hear arguments in two cases concerning other asserted flaws in the honest services law in December.
 One involves a former Alaska legislator, Bruce Weyhrauch, who did not disclose that he had been soliciting work from a company with business before the Legislature. Mr. Weyhrauch argued that the federal honest services law should not apply in public corruption cases where no violation of a state law was alleged.
 The other pending case concerns Conrad M. Black, the newspaper executive convicted of defrauding his media company, Hollinger International. Mr. Black argued that the law should not apply to him because he had not contemplated that Hollinger would suffer ''some identifiable economic injury.''
 The court's decision to accept a third case concerning the honest services law, Skilling v. United States, 08-1394, was unusual. The court's typical practice when appeals in similar cases are already pending is to hold the later cases until the earlier ones have been decided. 
 Mr. Skilling's second argument in the Supreme Court was that the publicity surrounding his case made it impossible for him to receive a fair trial in Houston.
 The appeals court agreed that the pretrial publicity in Mr. Skilling's case was ''inflammatory and pervasive.'' Mr. Skilling's brief cited examples of such publicity, including a Houston Chronicle column with the headline ''Your Tar and Feathers Ready? Mine Are'' and a rap song titled ''Drop the S Off Skilling.''
 The trial judge in Mr. Skilling's case rejected a motion for a change of venue. In a mild rebuke, the appeals court said that ''it would not have been imprudent'' for the judge to have granted the motion. But the appeals court added that the trial judge had conducted ''proper and thorough'' questioning of prospective jurors that had ''more than mitigated any effect of this prejudice.''
 Lower state and federal courts have disagreed about whether a change of venue is required when pervasive pretrial prejudice is found or whether a finding that the jury actually seated was impartial is sufficient. In 2001, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., then a judge on the federal appeals court in Philadelphia, wrote that a pervasively hostile atmosphere is sufficient to presume unconstitutional prejudice ''without reference to an examination of the attitudes of those who served as defendant's jurors.''
 David Leonhardt, whose Economic Scene column normally appears on this page, is on assignment. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey K. Skilling, center, the former chief of Enron, left court in Houston after being sentenced to 24 years in prison in 2006.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM JOHNSON/REUTERS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SENTENCING (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); JUDGES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); PROPERTY CRIMES (70%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (93%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



376 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: BlackBerry, Upgraded, Aims to Suit Every User

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL and IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
The Storm was supposed to be the smartphone that would keep Verizon Wireless customers from deserting to Apple's iPhone, which runs on AT&T's network.
 Research In Motion, the company that created the BlackBerry phones that business users find so addictive, gave Verizon exclusive rights to sell its first touch-screen phone in order to reach the vast consumer market. 
 But the Storm failed to live up to its name. About a million devices were sold, so it was not a flop. But many customers and some reviewers found it buggy and hard to use. 
 Meanwhile, the iPhone's allure grew with new versions and a rapidly growing catalog of applications. 
 This week, Verizon and R.I.M. are trying again with a Storm do-over, the Storm 2. Among its many improvements, the new phone gives the user the sensation of pushing a physical button when pressing a number on the glass touch screen. 
 Lowell C. McAdam, the chief executive of Verizon Wireless, has been carrying the revamped device for a few weeks, looking for any evidence that this time it will catch on. Mr. McAdam said that while he was recently visiting the Verizon store in New York's SoHo district, he started talking to a couple of students from New York University who were shopping for cellphones. 
 ''I let them play with the second-generation Storm device,'' he said. ''They came back and said 'Oh, my gosh.' They were very excited. This is what they hoped the original Storm should be.''
 If enough people share that opinion, R.I.M. could finally have the hit with consumers it has long sought. The Canadian company remains the top seller of smartphones in North America (and second to Nokia worldwide). But Apple is catching up quickly, and a huge crop of new smartphones is heading to stores based on new operating systems from Microsoft and Google. Even Verizon is hedging its smartphone bets with a major deal to develop handsets based on Google's Android operating system. 
 R.I.M. has been slow to develop touch-screen technology, and its BlackBerrys are sluggish at browsing the Internet, industry analysts say. And developers have written only about 2,000 applications to run on BlackBerrys, compared with 85,000 for the iPhone and 10,000 for Android phones. 
 Investors are increasingly worried that R.I.M. cannot keep up with the pace of innovation. R.I.M.'s shares plunged 17 percent in one day last month after the company reported slightly less revenue than analysts expected for the quarter that ended in August. 
 Analysts were also alarmed because the company said the average price it expected to get from phones sold to wireless carriers would fall to $320, from $350. 
 ''Times are getting tougher for R.I.M. as they move more into the consumer space,'' said Carolina Milanesi, an analyst for the Gartner Group. ''There is a lot more competition, and consumers don't care much about the security and other things they sell to enterprises.''
 Jim Balsillie, R.I.M.'s co-chief executive, said in a recent interview that investors were misreading the most recent financial results. Prices are falling largely because the company is moving out its inventory of old models in preparation for the new versions of the Storm and the Bold, its top-of-the line, keyboard-based phone. 
 Moreover, since R.I.M.'s component costs are falling, profit margins are holding steady. ''I have never felt more enthusiastic about our business,'' he said.
 Despite its consumer push, much of R.I.M.'s effort is still tilted to pleasing business customers. Mr. Balsillie said the company planned to shake up the market in November when it will open its private communication network, which will allow BlackBerry users to receive their e-mail and a constant flow of social network updates and entertainment content from other sources. 
 ''The way people love the BlackBerry, e-mail is the way they will love doing a lot more with it,'' Mr. Balsillie said. 
 R.I.M. has been written off many times before. Skeptics said that its first gadgets, which were little more than glorified pagers with keyboards, could not survive in a world of cellphones. Instead of failing, R.I.M. was the fastest-growing company in the world from 2006 through 2008, according to calculations by Fortune magazine.
 R.I.M. was not hard hit by the recession, which has forced some of the big companies that have been the heart of its market to lay off workers. And R.I.M. was helped because BlackBerrys have started to become a family phone, too. 
 The company has also cut the manufacturing cost of BlackBerrys by using variations on its existing designs that have allowed retailers to sell the devices at prices matching much simpler phones. For example, the BlackBerry Curve, R.I.M.'s most popular phone, is offered at Wal-Mart for about $50 with a contract. About 80 percent of R.I.M.'s sales this year have been to consumers, not to employers. 
 Mike Lazaridis, R.I.M's other co-chief executive, says that the low cost of BlackBerrys allows cellular carriers to make more profit from the BlackBerrys than from other touch-screen handsets. 
 ''We help carriers be profitable,'' he said. ''We gave them a way to get into the data business. Now we are giving them a way to manage their costs when they are worried that all they have to sell is highly subsidized smartphones.''
 Mr. Lazaridis said that R.I.M. was about to release version 5.0 of its BlackBerry software, which promises to be easier to use, with a better Internet browser and longer battery life.
 Applications remain a weak point. Developers say it is harder to write programs for the BlackBerry, especially ones with spiffy graphics and multimedia features. ''When you create an application for R.I.M., you have to put in 30 to 40 percent more effort to make it look like what it would look like on the Android or the iPhone,'' said Walter Doyle, the chief executive of uLocate Communications, which makes applications to locate businesses on maps. 
 ''Yes, it is a little more difficult to develop on R.I.M.,'' Mr. Lazaridis said. The company is working on new tools that will speed the work of applications programmers. But to serve the needs of its big corporate clients, he said, applications will still have to comply with sometimes cumbersome security procedures.
 ''It's not a free-for-all,'' he said.
 That security is a crucial selling point for many customers, including President Obama, probably the best-known BlackBerry user. Mr. Lazaridis says R.I.M.'s precautions protect everyone. 
 ''You're starting to do banking on your handset,'' he said. ''Which would you rather use: something that can be hacked in five minutes or something the F.B.I. uses?''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about Research in Motion, the cellphone maker, referred incorrectly to the sales of one of its handsets, the BlackBerry Storm. The company said it sold one million in the first two months after its introduction, not over the year it has been available. (R.I.M. has not released the subsequent sales figures for the phone.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Lazaridis, left, and Jim Balsillie, the co-chiefs of Research In Motion, maker of the Black- Berry. Mr. Balsillie said analysts had misread the company's most recent financial results.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE CASSESE/REUTERS)
 A BlackBerry Storm displaying an application. One criticism of BlackBerrys is that applications are too expensive to make.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) CHART: A New Weapon Against the iPhone: Research in Motion, the maker of BlackBerry smartphones, is hoping the release of its new Storm 2 will keep it competitive with Apple and Nokia.(Source: Gartner) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); SMARTPHONES (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (85%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (65%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); COMPANY REVENUES (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); GOOGLE INC (81%); APPLE INC (74%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (91%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (91%); VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (74%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (74%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (74%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (74%)

PERSON: JAMES BALSILLIE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



377 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: In a Case Turning on Financial Ills, a Search for Jurors

BYLINE: By ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
It was ''Twelve Angry Men'' meets ''Wall Street.'' 
 The first criminal trial stemming from the financial panic opened on Tuesday in a courtroom in New York with one overarching question: in this era of foreclosures and bank bailouts, how carefully balanced does a jury have to be to render a fair verdict on financiers?
 The case centers on two former executives of Bear Stearns, Ralph R. Cioffi and Matthew M. Tannin, who have been accused of lying to investors about the perilous state of two giant hedge funds that they oversaw. They have pleaded not guilty. 
 Selecting jurors -- always a delicate dance -- was particularly difficult given the turmoil on Wall Street. Several potential jurors interviewed by lawyers on Tuesday expressed contempt for the financial industry as a whole. 
 ''People on Wall Street get away with a lot of wrongdoing,'' one said. Another, who claimed to have lost money in the stock market, told the court that ''financial institutions always try to bend the rules to make as much money as possible.''
 The case will be a crucial test for prosecutors, who must persuade a jury of mostly working-class New Yorkers, some from foreign countries like Grenada and Ukraine, that Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin acted criminally when they privately expressed concerns about their funds' health while presenting a much rosier picture to investors. Even before potential jurors entered the courtroom, Judge Frederic Block of Federal District Court dismissed two of them after lawyers said they had expressed bias in questionnaires asking their opinions on the economy and Wall Street.
 Legal experts said it would be almost impossible to find jurors unaffected by the crisis. 
 If the men are convicted of the securities fraud charges, they face up to 20 years in prison each. 
 ''Both sides will probably pitch this at a very gut and emotional level, which is how most cases are decided anyway,'' Robert S. Duboff, who runs the jury consulting firm HawkPartners, said. ''But sometimes the people who are the most bitter at the institution could well end up being sympathetic to the people on trial.''
 In arguing their case, prosecutors are likely to contrast the lives of Wall Street executives with those of ordinary Americans. The two executives at Bear Stearns, which collapsed into the arms of JPMorgan Chase in 2008, made many millions of dollars. 
 In an e-mail message disclosed by the prosecution last week, Mr. Tannin wrote that he made $2 million in 2006. He also expressed extreme anxiety about the performance of the hedge funds, writing in November 2006 that he could no longer sleep and began taking antidepressants because of fear the funds could eventually ''blow up.''
 The funds filed for bankruptcy in the summer of 2007, costing investors more than $1.4 billion. Both men were then dismissed. 
 One potential juror from Brooklyn, under questioning from Judge Block, said his feelings about workers in the financial industry depended on who the people were and added that investment managers seemed as if ''they have very stressful jobs.''
 In his questioning, Judge Block pointed out that even though many jurors had lost a chunk of their savings, the case was ''not a revenge opportunity.''
 The prosecution's case is expected to hinge on messages between Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin showing they were concerned about the funds even as they collected more money from investors. The government's case rests on whether jurors believe the two knowingly deceived investors about the funds. 
 ''While this jury may not understand the arcane financial issues, they will have a sense of what's right and what's wrong,'' said Brian L. Rubin, a partner in the litigation practice of Sutherland Asbill & Brennan.
 The defense has argued that Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin were victims of the crisis and managed their investors' money the best they could. Mr. Cioffi is also accused of insider trading; prosecutors say he took $2 million out of one fund and moved it into another. Opening statements in the trial begin on Wednesday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matthew M. Tannin, top, and Ralph R. Cioffi oversaw hedge funds at Bear Sterns before the funds filed for bankruptcy in the summer of 2007. The executives were ousted afterward.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); JURY DUTY (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); VERDICTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



378 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Lobster And Politics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Lobster Roll With that Anorak?'' (Oct. 7): Your article about Linda Bean's attempt to mass-market Maine lobster ''the way Perdue does chicken'' was disturbing from an economic as well as an environmental perspective. 
 With lobster prices sharply reduced by overfishing and a severe depression of demand, Ms. Bean purports to ''rescue'' fishermen in Maine by submitting them to the same imperious supply-chain control that has made Perdue famous -- and driven chicken farmers deep into poverty. 
 Ms. Bean's stated desire to have Maine lobsters -- with a yearly catch that is already probably above sustainable levels -- declared a sustainable fish only compounds these economic blunders. 
 She calls her company Perfect Maine, but her plans should make Mainers ask, ''Perfect for whom?''
 C. Butcosk
 Brunswick, Me. 
 To the Editor:
 If Ms. Bean wants to make her lobsters stand out, she could fit their eight little walking legs with eight little L. L. Bean hunting boots. Maybe she could throw in a fitted chamois shirt, too. Then everyone would know that they were ''real Maine lobsters.''
 Michael Ginsburg
 New York

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WAY OF THE CLAW: Linda Bean has big plans for Maine's lobster industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (77%); CHICKEN FARMING (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



379 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2310 words

HEADLINE: Still on the Job, but Making Only Half as Much

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: MECHANICSVILLE, Va. 

 BODY:
The dark blue captain's hat, with its golden oak-leaf clusters, sits atop a bookcase in Bryan Lawlor's home, out of reach of the children. The uniform their father wears still displays the four stripes of a commercial airline captain, but the hat stays home. The rules forbid that extra display of authority, now that Mr. Lawlor has been downgraded to first officer.
 He is now in the co-pilot's seat in the 50-seat commuter jets he flies, not for any failure in skill. He wears his captain's stripes, he explains, to make that point. But with air travel down, his employer cut costs by downgrading 130 captains, those with the lowest seniority, to first officers, automatically cutting the wage of each by roughly 50 percent -- to $34,000 in Mr. Lawlor's case. 
 The demotion, the loss of command, the cut in pay to less than his wife, Tracy, makes as a fourth-grade teacher, have diminished Mr. Lawlor, 34, in his own eyes. He still thinks he will return to being the family's principal breadwinner, although as the months pass he worries more. ''I don't want to be a 50-year-old pilot earning $40,000 a year,'' he said, adding that his wife does not want to be married to a pilot with so little earning power.
 In recent decades, layoffs were the standard procedure for shrinking labor costs. Reducing the wages of those who remained on the job was considered demoralizing and risky: the best workers would jump to another employer. But now pay cuts, sometimes the result of downgrades in rank or shortened workweeks, are occurring more frequently than at any time since the Great Depression. 
 State workers in Georgia are taking home smaller paychecks. So are the tens of thousands of employees in California's public university system. The steel company Nucor and the technology giant Hewlett-Packard have embraced the practice. So have several airlines and many small businesses. 
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics does not track pay cuts, but it suggests they are reflected in the steep decline of another statistic: total weekly pay for production workers, pilots among them, representing 80 percent of the work force. That index has fallen for nine consecutive months, an unprecedented string over the 44 years the bureau has calculated weekly pay, capturing the large number of people out of work, those working fewer hours and those whose wages have been cut. The old record was a two-month decline, during the 1981-1982 recession. 
 ''What this means,'' said Thomas J. Nardone, an assistant commissioner at the bureau, ''is that the amount of money people are paid has taken a big hit; not just those who have lost their jobs, but those who are still employed.''
 Bryan and Tracy Lawlor, who is also 34, have hidden their straitened circumstances from their four young children, mainly at his insistence. But as their savings dwindle, Christmas, a key indicator in the Lawlor family, will mean fewer presents this year. The Lawlors have made a practice of piling on toys and new clothes for their children at Christmas, buying relatively less the rest of the year. That will make a cutback noticeable this holiday season, and the parents are concerned that their children will begin to realize why.
 ''You don't want to see disappointment on their faces; that makes me feel horrible,'' Mr. Lawlor said. ''You can be the best pilot in the airline and make the best landings, and in their eyes, I am not going to be as important as I was.'' 
 A Dream Come True
 Bryan Lawlor was five years out of Virginia Tech before he turned to aviation, his first love as a boy. His mother still cherishes a photo of her son, age 5, seated in a cockpit. But Mr. Lawlor studied chemistry in college and he used that skill, taking jobs as a chemical technician, to support his growing family. Layoffs marred those early years and in 2003 Mr. Lawlor made the ''crossroads'' decision to become a commercial pilot, borrowing $24,000 to learn to fly and to acquire the necessary licenses.
 His current employer, ExpressJet Airlines, is a spinoff from a feeder operation for Continental Airlines. It brought passengers to Delta hubs as well, mainly in the West, and to help handle that traffic, Mr. Lawlor was promoted to captain from first officer in July 2007. His pay rose to $68,000, with the prospect of reaching $100,000 -- roughly triple a first officer's pay.
 That is not so much money by the standards of an earlier era. Even senior captains on legacy airlines rarely earn above $200,000 today, as they often did in the past. Mr. Lawlor says pilots' pay these days fails to recognize the training and skill involved in transporting passengers even more safely than in the past.
 But Mr. Lawlor felt he was headed in the right financial direction until the economy, and the airline business, took a tumble. It is a setback that worries his wife, who wants her husband back on the income path that was interrupted one year ago this month. ''I certainly don't earn enough to make up for what he lost,'' she said, adding that to make matters worse, ''teachers didn't get a raise in our school this year.'' 
 Still, as her husband's ordeal drags on, Mr. Lawlor in some ways has risen in his wife's eyes. ''I have more respect for him,'' she said. ''I can see he is angry and upset, but he does not show it very often, and never to the kids.'' 
 That is less and less true, Mr. Lawlor said, amending his wife's appraisal. One year into his downgrade, ''never'' has turned to ''rarely'' and, in recent weeks, ''not so rarely.'' He blew up last week at his 3-year-old son, Shayne, for refusing to take a nap, and sent the child whimpering to his room. Then, after arranging with another pilot to delay a flight so he could ''dead-head'' home in the early afternoon instead of having to wait for the next flight, he blew up at his wife for failing to appreciate the effort he had made and the stress involved. 
 ''My mind is always on 20 different things,'' Mr. Lawlor said. ''What do I need to get done? How much will it cost? Is it necessary? Can I do it cheaper if I do it myself? Can I make the earlier commute home? Rush, rush, rush, and then suddenly someone makes the wrong comment and I become uncorked.'' 
 A Different Kind of Provider
 As a captain for ExpressJet in calmer times, Mr. Lawlor commuted across the country to Los Angeles, his home base, for each three- or four-day trip. Now, as a first officer, his base is Newark, a far shorter commute from the Lawlor home in this Richmond suburb. So he is home more. He spends that time caring for the two youngest children, Shayne and Jackson, 16 months, while his wife takes the two oldest, Zachary, 7, and Kelley, 10, with her to the elementary school where she teaches and they are enrolled as students. 
 ''A lot of my friends say their husbands would not stay home with the kids on their days off, even to save money,'' Mrs. Lawlor said, ''but Bryan feels that if he is going to be home more that is what he should do, and he is doing it.'' 
 Mrs. Lawlor praises her husband's adeptness in the routines of child care. But money also drives him. Each day that Jackson and Shayne are not delivered to the home of the baby sitter is $50 that can be spent elsewhere. That wasn't a priority while Mr. Lawlor was captain. In the 14 months that he held that rank, his $68,000 in pay and Tracy's $40,000 as a fourth-grade teacher were enough, as Mr. Lawlor put it, for the family -- for the first time -- to spend freely and still save money. 
 He purchased a white gold 10th anniversary band for his wife and a bright yellow Harley-Davidson motorcycle for himself, imagining that he would take it for spins on his days off, the wind blowing in his hair as he raced along the sparsely populated roads in Richmond's semi-rural suburbs. ''It was a present to myself when I upgraded to captain,'' he said.
 The $10,000 Harley sat for months in the garage before it finally sold, with only 175 miles on the odometer. Mr. Lawlor had never ridden it much. His wife objected that he would exclude the family unless, as she pointedly put it, he could ''find some way to strap the kids on the motorcycle.'' Now the desire to ride the eye-catching hog is gone. If he ever makes another vanity purchase, Mr. Lawlor says, it will be something the family can use.
 His mother, Patricia Lawlor, anguishes over this scaling back of his exuberance and the psychological effect of the pay cut. 
 ''Let me put it this way,'' she said of her only son, the oldest of her three children. ''When we went out to dinner and he was a captain, with a captain's pay, he for the first time picked up the check. He would say, 'I'll get it, Dad,' instead of letting his father pick it up. It gave him a great deal of pride to do that. 'Let me buy, Dad, for once.' And now he does not say that anymore.''
 While Mr. Lawlor was still a captain, his parents decided to move into smaller quarters, and the son and daughter-in-law bought their five-bedroom house, getting a break on the price but increasing their mortgage payment to $2,000 a month from the $1,200 they had paid for their smaller home nearby. 
 They closed on the house in August 2008, on the eve of the downgrade, and soon there were regrets. ''We would not have bought the house on a first officer's salary,'' Tracy Lawlor said. She had considered giving up teaching to be a stay-at-home mom. ''We felt we had some breathing room for the first time in our 11 years of marriage,'' she said, ''and that went out the window with the downgrade.''
 She was sitting at her kitchen table, and her husband, across from her, winced, but did not disagree. Even if his captain's rank and pay are restored she will continue to teach, she said. His pay could be cut again. They are convinced of that and, in preparation, they made certain there would be no more children. Their fourth, Jackson, was just 4 months old when the downgrade came, and soon after, Mr. Lawlor underwent a vasectomy. 
 ''We could not take the risk of having another child,'' he said.
 Silver, and Dark, Linings
 The West Coast assignment, while representing a promotion, meant long, often overnight commutes, with Mr. Lawlor sleeping fitfully in the jump seat of a FedEx cargo jet or in a sleeping bag rolled out in the cargo area. His first day home, he often spent dozing on the living room couch. His wife hated the time taken from the family, and her husband's exhaustion.
 ''He was totally worn out the first day back, and tired the whole time he was home,'' she said.
 One year later, even after such a big pay cut, Mrs. Lawlor sees her husband's shorter commute to his new base at Newark as a blessing she is reluctant to give up. Her husband says that moving back up to captain, with a captain's pay, might mean commuting again to California. ''If that is what it takes, I'll do it,'' he said, and this time his wife winced.
 ''I would probably not be happy,'' she said. But she ''wouldn't trade him for another husband,'' as she put it, and while she had never wanted her husband to be a pilot, at this point she would be alarmed if he left aviation in an attempt to please her.
 ''He likes what he does,'' she said, ''whereas before he did not like what he did. That has made him easier to be around, whereas before he became a pilot, he wasn't happy at all.''
 Mr. Lawlor is vice chairman for contract enforcement for the ExpressJet unit of the Air Line Pilots Association. He had volunteered some months ago for the unpaid role, and now his fellow pilots seek his help in resolving scheduling disputes, pay issues, meal reimbursements. The calls and e-mail messages come in on his cellphone. When he is home, minding his sons, he lets the children migrate to the living room to watch a cartoon on the family's big-screen TV while he sits nearby, at the kitchen table, absorbed in mediating appeals.
 That is not the same as commanding an airliner -- walking through the airport wearing the captain's hat -- but it brings him part way back. ''My point would be that being in the captain's seat made me feel in command, and capable and powerful,'' Mr. Lawlor said, ''and that has been taken away, and through the union, I can still experience some of that, in the admiration of my peers for being able to step up and help them. Maybe psychologically that fills a void; maybe that is why I don't feel as bad as I would otherwise.'' 
 So the Lawlors soldier on, with plenty of family help. Their sisters have pitched in with baby-sitting, gratis. His parents bought their kitchen table, the dining room table, a playpen, a living room sofa and the deck furniture. His father's two unmarried sisters, both retired teachers, insist on helping their only nephew -- the one family member perpetuating the Lawlor name not only in this generation but, through his three sons, the next generation. 
 The aunts offer a subsidy. They insist, for example, that Bryan Lawlor eat healthy meals when he is on the road, even if that means spending more than his airline-allotted per diem. They'll pay, and Mr. Lawlor says he does now eat properly. The aunts also paid $200 to rent ''moon bounce'' equipment for a Lawlor child's birthday party last month. The birthday boy had asked for the party entertainment, and the Lawlors obliged, with the aunts' help, not wanting the father's loss of income to translate into constraints on the children's lives. 
 Still, their savings, built up in the good years, have dwindled to $10,000, from $28,000 last fall, and Mr. Lawlor said the next rung down, to four figures, is in his mind a crisis level. ''I am beginning to feel like, what if something happens to me, where does that leave Tracy?'' he said. 
 He called in sick recently, suffering basically from fatigue. ''I think the reason I felt fatigued is the stress,'' he said. ''It is always there.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the increasing frequency of pay cuts in the current economic slowdown misstated the results of a Bureau of Labor Statistics index of total weekly pay for production workers. The index rose in July and August before falling again in September; it had not just fallen for nine consecutive months. (Through June, the index had fallen for 10 consecutive months.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bryan Lawlor was reduced from airline captain to first officer and his salary lowered by 50 percent as his employer cut costs.(pg. A1)
 BRYAN LAWLOR: First officer, ExpressJet Airlines (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASEY TEMPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); AIRLINES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); WORK WEEK (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); DISMISSALS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



380 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; WINES OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Douro: Harbor in an Economic Tempest

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
IN the year or so since the economy plummeted without a parachute, Americans have not stopped buying wine. They've simply bought cheaper wine. Whether this will ultimately be seen as a time of sacrifice or an eye-opening education remains to be determined, but I have a hunch that many people will find it easy, when the economy recovers, not to resume their free-spending ways.
 Why? Because this is a prime opportunity to learn that more expensive wine is not necessarily better wine. 
 Oh, this is not a novel idea. In fact, it's a much abused idea, brandished often by the reverse snobs who like to sneer at the suckers spending $50 for a bottle of Burgundy when they could have a couple of cases of Two-Buck Chuck for the same price. 
 Of course you can. And for the price of the one-volume complete works of Shakespeare, you can buy a truckload of comic books. Some people would be happier with the comics.
 Just because a silly argument can be constructed on the foundation of a truth doesn't make it less of a truth. So yes, more expensive wine is not necessarily better wine.
 This is true everywhere, but it's an idea that I think has special resonance in areas with a rapidly developing wine industry. Case in point: the Douro region of Portugal.
 With its twisting rows of terraced vines, which seem to undulate down steep, rocky hillsides in the shimmering heat, the Douro (pronounced DOH-roo) is one of the most beautiful and forbidding wine territories in the world. It is indeed rapidly developing, but it's by no means new.
 For centuries most of the Douro grapes went into fortified wine, Port, whether the cheap aperitif, the great tawnies or the prized vintage monsters that required decades to tame. But over the last 20 years, as the world's tastes have evolved and as the Portuguese wine industry has modernized, still wines have become more and more important to the Douro economy.
 Once something of a curiosity, still red wines from the Douro are now easy to find in shops. I've written several times that inexpensive reds from the Douro and from Portugal in general can be great buys, but these wines tell only part of the Douro story. Equally important are the number of sophisticated, well-financed producers, many with ties to the great Port houses, who are making ambitious, expensive wines.
 In a recent tasting of Douro reds, the wine panel found an enormous disparity in price among our favorite wines. We sampled 20 wines, ranging from $7 to $85 a bottle, with nine bottles costing $21 or less and nine for $45 or more. 
 Of the 10 wines we liked best, five came from the cheap group and five from the expensive group. And among those 10 bottles, we clearly preferred the less expensive wines.
 For the tasting Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Laura Maniec, director of wine and spirits for B. R. Guest Restaurants, and Byron Bates, a sommelier and wine consultant.
 The price disparity in the tasting was not by design, but it represented a cross-section of the Douro wines in the marketplace. Our No. 1 wine, the 2006 Altano from Symington Family Estates, was also our best value at a mere $10. It was lively and dry, with plummy, earthy flavors that were altogether pleasing.
 Why did we rate it higher than our No. 6 wine, the 2005 Reserva from Quinta do Vallado, a $66 bottle, or, for that matter, our No. 7, the most expensive bottle in the tasting, the 2005 Quinta do Vale Meao, an $85 bottle?
 No doubt, the more expensive wines were made with a great deal of care. Yields were kept low, and the grapes were babied from harvest through vinification. Winemakers sought maximum concentration and aged the wines in the finest new oak barrels. 
 The result, very generally speaking, is powerful wines of great impact, with penetrating fruit flavors buttressed by the spicy, creamy chocolate and vanilla of new oak.
 The Quinta do Vallado, for example, is exuberantly fruity, with plenty of oak and a dose of spiciness for personality. The Quinta do Vale Meao is even more powerful, a veritable fruit and oak bomb.
 By contrast, concentration and power are not the aims with the less expensive wines. They are not lavished with new oak, and textures tend to be leaner rather than plush. 
 We liked the balance of the No. 1 Altano, its easy drinkability and the fact that it would do well on the table. It didn't seem expensive -- the polished oakiness is often a giveaway in blind tastings -- but it tasted harmonious.
 Similarly, our No. 2 bottle, the 2007 Quinta de la Rosa for $16, was fresh, bright and focused, while our No. 3, the 2006 Lavradores de Feitoria for $12, was a pretty, winsome wine. It didn't have the concentration or lingering power of a more expensive bottle, but it made up for it by being delicate and engaging.
 OF course, this dichotomy is overly stark. Our No. 10 bottle, the 2005 Quinta dos Aciprestes from Real Companhia Velha, a $12 bottle, was extravagantly fruity, but without the intensity and concentration of the more expensive wines. Meanwhile, our No. 4 wine, the 2005 Quinta do Vale D. Maria, a $50 bottle, was huge and ripe, but well structured and focused.
 For the most part, these more expensive bottles are fine winemaking achievements, but not necessarily more enjoyable wines. A saving grace in all of our favorite wines, however, is that they show off the Douro's indigenous grapes, like touriga nacional, the primary grape of Port; tinto roriz, which is otherwise known as tempranillo; and touriga franca, another Port grape. Their spicy, plummy flavors are evident in most of these wines, regardless of efforts to overwhelm them with oak.
 While these grapes are usually blended, as in Port, one of the wines was made of 100 percent touriga nacional. That was our No. 8 bottle, also made by Quinta do Vallado. Its fruitiness did not have the skyrocketing trajectory of the blended version, but at $60 its price was on the same arc.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



381 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: A Rare Building Boom Up North

BYLINE: By ALBERT WARSON

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
The financial district of this city, the fifth-largest metropolitan area in North America, with a population of 5.4 million, is the scene of an exceptional flurry of development, especially in light of the recession.
 Three green towers with a combined 3.1 million square feet of office space are opening before the end of the year in the downtown financial district. In addition, within a 20-minute walk, three high-rise condominium-hotel towers costing about 1.23 billion Canadian dollars (about $1.19 billion) will open next year. 
 This unusual burst of construction has rejuvenated the lower edge of the Bay Street financial district. The district has also projected to the south into a vacant 30-acre site across Front Street toward the Lake Ontario waterfront. 
 Despite the worldwide economic downturn, ''Toronto's real estate investment fundamentals and its place as Canada's financial capital are more sound than most international capitals -- New York included,'' said Blake Hutcheson, a partner and head of global real estate investing at Mount Hallet Capital, a New York-based private equity fund. 
 He said the torrent of development in Toronto's financial district was the culmination of a process that had taken 20 years ''from concept to completion.'' The three new downtown office towers were started before the recession.
 Their developers have preleased more than two-thirds of the space, taking advantage of pent-up demand for modern office space. No significant office towers had been built in the financial district for 17 years, according to the city's planning department.
 The first of the financial district towers to be completed was the 51-story 1.2-million-square-foot Bay Adelaide Centre West, developed by a partnership of the Brookfield Properties Corporation, based in New York, and BPO Properties Ltd., based in Toronto. It opened this month and has been 73 percent preleased to the accounting giant KPMG and other tenants. 
 The name of the tower includes the word ''West'' because two more phases, encompassing another 2.6 million square feet of space, are planned. Construction of this first tower, which cost 308 million Canadian dollars, actually began almost two decades ago but was aborted after the foundation was completed in 1991, during an earlier recession, when Toronto's office vacancy rates hit 20 percent. 
 Tom Farley, president and chief executive for Brookfield's Canadian commercial operations, says the new building is the first high-rise office building in downtown Toronto to be awarded a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design gold rating. He said that the building would have ''an estimated 40 percent energy savings relative to other buildings built to the Canadian Model National Energy Code,'' another voluntary standard that gives builders green bragging rights 
 Another new building, the RBC Centre, a 43-story tower with a 10-story podium and three underground parking levels, is the Royal Bank of Canada's new head office. It was developed at a cost of about 420 million Canadian dollars by the Cadillac Fairview Corporation of Toronto on behalf of its parent, the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan. The new tower, which is to open later this month, is at the edge of the financial district, in a thriving entertainment district that includes a circular concert hall, an opulent 1900s-era theater, and other entertainment venues, restaurants, bars and recycled period buildings turned into offices, studios and loft condos.
 The final new building, the 30-story Telus Tower, which is costing about 250 million Canadian dollars, is on a corner of the windswept 30-acre former railway lands, which have been abandoned for about three decades. It is to be completed next month. The site is near Union Station, the country's busiest passenger transportation hub, used by about 250,000 passengers each work day. 
 Peter Menkes, the president of Menkes Developments of Toronto, the developer of the tower, says the building is 82 percent leased by Telus Business Solutions of Vancouver, which provides communications services across Canada. 
 The Hospitals of Ontario Pension Plan of Toronto and Halcyon Real Estate Partners Fund, a New York-based institutional real estate equity fund, are joint venture partners with Menkes. ''Nearly filling the building space in a difficult leasing environment was an accomplishment,'' Mr. Menkes said. 
 The new buildings will all provide access to the 16.8-mile underground PATH system, a climate-controlled retail, service and food walkway winding under most of the office towers downtown, with access to the subway. The office buildings will also be connected by the PATH to Union Station, which itself will be redeveloped in 2010 at a cost of 640 million Canadian dollars.
 The three luxury hotel-condominiums that are under construction are in the downtown Bay Street financial district or within a few blocks of it. They are the 70-story Trump International Hotel and Tower, which is to cost 500 million Canadian dollars; the 53-story Ritz-Carlton and Residences at the Ritz-Carlton, with a price tag of 300 million Canadian dollars; and the 65-story Living Shangri-La Toronto, projected at 430 million Canadian dollars. They are expected to open next year or early in 2011.
 All of these properties are expected to be attractive to executives doing business in the financial district, and they will have conference facilities. The upper stories will be used for residential condominiums, a booming sector in Toronto. Another building just starting to go up in the area is 18 York Street, a 26-story tower across the street from Telus Towers. It is expected to open in the fall of 2011.
 GWL Realty Advisers of Toronto is developing the tower for the British Columbia Investment Management Corporation of Vancouver. PricewaterhouseCoopers is expected to be the principal tenant.
 Kaid Al-Ani, an associate partner of the Mitchell Partnership of Toronto, which is designing its mechanical systems, says 18 York Street will be noteworthy for its cooling system, which will circulate cold water drawn from Lake Ontario. 
 Doug Webber, a planner who leads the green practice for Toronto-based Halsall Associates Ltd., an engineering consulting firm responsible for green and sustainability features at 18 York Street, says all of these new buildings ''meet several city of Toronto planning objectives, including expansion of the downtown business district, employment growth, transit-oriented development and revitalization of the area surrounding Union Station.'' 
 While it seems surprising to have all this activity during a recession, there was an acute need for new construction in the financial district, according to John O'Bryan, a vice chairman of CB Richard Ellis Ltd., a commercial real estate services company, in Toronto. 
 Until this year, the newest buildings there were almost 20 years old, and a number of major tenants had been pushing for more modern buildings with larger and more efficient floor plates and green qualities, he said. 
 Many of them also preferred to be downtown because financial employees are seen as increasingly eager to live in condos downtown. 
 Mr. O'Bryan noted that most of the tenants in the first two buildings came out of existing downtown buildings, leaving huge blocks of space to refill. ''The older buildings that tenants left had never been retrofitted, and yet were always full,'' Mr. O'Bryan said. ''Owners will now retrofit those old buildings and fill them up over time.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A view of the financial district of Toronto, which is experiencing pent-up demand after years of little construction.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE PAYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); GREEN BUILDING (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); LAKES (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (62%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (61%)

COMPANY: BROOKFIELD CANADA OFFICE PROPERTIES (64%); BROOKFIELD OFFICE PROPERTIES INC (64%)

TICKER: BOXC (NYSE) (64%); BPO (TSX) (64%); BPO (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (64%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (64%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (64%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (64%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%) ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



382 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Britain Fights for the Life Of One of Its Citizens in China

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Diplomatic officials and rights groups in Britain are waging a campaign to save the life of a British man who has been sentenced to death for drug smuggling by a Chinese court despite apparent signs of mental illness. 
 If the sentence is carried out, consular officials say, he would be the first British citizen to be executed in China in recent memory. 
 Although China puts more people to death than all other nations combined, it rarely executes foreigners, who are generally treated more leniently by the criminal justice system. 
 Family members and associates of the man, Akmal Shaikh, 53, say he was suffering from psychosis two years ago when he stepped off a plane in northwest China carrying a suitcase packed with nearly nine pounds of heroin. According to those advocating on his behalf, Mr. Shaikh told the police he had come to China to become a pop star and that he had been handed the suitcase just before boarding the plane in Kyrgyzstan by a man who said he would make him famous. The man, who promised he would follow on the next flight, never arrived. 
 Convicted and sentenced during a half-hour trial, Mr. Shaikh was apparently so delusional during an appeals hearing in May that the judges could not help but laugh out loud. That appeal, British officials said, was rejected. 
 Mr. Shaikh, who has been sharing a cell with 20 other prisoners in Urumqi, the regional capital of Xinjiang, has one remaining appeal, to the Supreme People's Court in Beijing. 
 ''It's sad because someone who suffers from a mental disorder is going to be executed without being able to present evidence of his illness,'' said Clive Stafford-Smith, the director of Reprieve, a human rights group in London that is working on his behalf. 
 Under Chinese law, courts are instructed to consider a defendant's psychological state when handing down sentences for serious crimes. British officials say Mr. Shaikh, who is said by his associates to have bipolar disorder, has never been evaluated by the judicial authorities. 
 ''I don't get the sense that this provision is widely used,'' said Joshua Rosenzweig, a researcher based in Hong Kong for the Dui Hua Foundation, a human rights group.
 Asked about the case at a news conference on Tuesday, Ma Zhaoxu, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, cited Mr. Shaikh's own trial testimony, in which he insisted that neither he nor anyone in his family had ever suffered from mental illness. ''All the procedures have been in line with relevant Chinese laws,'' Mr. Ma said.
 Those who have followed Mr. Shaikh's case closely say signs of his mental illness were evident for all to see. He was prone to outlandish behavior and frequently made grandiose statements about himself. In e-mail messages he sent to British and American officials in 2005, he described himself as a millionaire and a messiah who was poised to start a new airline despite having no means of support.
 ''I am the chosen one here to deliver world peace,'' he wrote in one exchange, which was provided by his advocates in London. ''All I know is that Abraham has shown me my home in seventh heaven and I have met all the prophets.''
 Once the manager of a taxi company in north London, Mr. Shaikh, the father of three, left his family several years ago and moved to Warsaw, according to relatives. Although his mental state deteriorated, family members say he resisted their entreaties to seek help. ''Even now he doesn't understand how grave the situation is,'' his brother Akbar said in an interview.
 While in Poland, he was enticed to go to China by a man who said he could help arrange a record deal and make him famous, his associates said. According to Reprieve, the man provided him with a plane ticket and at the last moment handed him a suitcase, saying there were no more seats on the flight but that he would come later. 
 British officials say that Prime Minister Gordon Brown raised Mr. Shaikh's plight with President Hu Jintao during the Group of 20 economic summit meeting in Pittsburgh last month and that consular officials in Beijing have been aggressively pressing the government to reconsider the sentence. 
 ''Our policy on capital punishment is that we oppose it in all circumstances,'' said David Shaw, a British Embassy spokesman. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Akmal Shaikh, 53, has been sentenced to death for drug smuggling by a Chinese court.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); FAMILY (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); WITNESSES (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); CELEBRITIES (73%); HEROIN (73%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); XINJIANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



383 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Meeting in Both Countries, Turkish and Syrian Officials Signal Improved Relations

BYLINE: By SEBNEM ARSU

DATELINE: ISTANBUL 

 BODY:
Turkey and Syria held a day of meetings and ceremonies on Tuesday that signaled an era of improving relations between the countries, signing agreements to remove visa restrictions on their shared border and pledging to build ''a common future.'' 
 The meetings were intended to forge a new era of cooperation that would have been inconceivable a decade ago, when tensions ran high because Turkey believed that Syria was abetting attacks by the separatist militants of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or P.K.K. 
 The agreements come at a time of worsening relations between Turkey and Israel, after Turkey canceled a multinational military exercise that was to include Israel. The strains in their relationship had already increased this year after a strongly worded exchange between the Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the Israeli president, Shimon Peres, over Israel's military offensive in Gaza.
 The Turkish-Syrian meetings on Tuesday were the first resulting from the formation last month of a ''senior strategic cooperation council.'' After morning meetings in Aleppo in Syria, officials from both countries went to the border, where together they ceremonially walked across into Turkey and then drove on to Gaziantep to resume meeting.
 Ten Turkish ministers, including those from the foreign affairs, defense, interior, economy, energy and agriculture departments, met with their Syrian counterparts. 
 The parties worked on almost 40 protocols and agreements to be put into action plans within 10 days, Ahmet Davutoglu, the Turkish foreign minister, said, according to the Anatolian Agency, a semiofficial news service.
 The defense ministries agreed to draft at least three projects by the end of October, and energy officials agreed to complete the natural gas project connecting an Arab pipeline with a Turkish pipeline in the next 18 months, the Anatolian Agency reported.
 ''From now on, Turkey will continue walking on the same road'' as Syria, ''sharing a common fate, history and future,'' Mr. Davutoglu said at a joint news conference. ''We are going to walk hand by hand and work altogether to revive our region as a center of civilization.''
 Turkey's tensions with Syria began to ease in 1998 with Syria's ouster of the P.K.K. leader Abdullah Ocalan. Syria's recent offer to give asylum to 1,500 P.K.K. rebels if they renounce their armed conflict was another sign of improving relations. 
 Although not mentioned in Tuesday's meetings, a territorial dispute over Hatay, a border province that became part of Turkey in 1939, remains an underlying issue. But a conflict over water from the Euphrates River, which flows from Turkey to Syria, was addressed, with a decision to work on a ''friendship dam project,'' the Anatolian Agency reported.
 For Syria, cooperation with Turkey, a European Union candidate, could elevate its image in the eyes of the United States and Europe, analysts said. That image has suffered because of the country's close links with Iran as well as militant groups like Hamas and Hezbollah. 
 Turkey, meanwhile, could help Syria emerge from its international isolation while strengthening its own role as a potential mediator in the Middle East.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Turkish and Syrian ministers symbolically lifted a bar Tuesday at the buffer zone of their border.(PHOTOGRAPH BY UMIT BEKTAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: KONGRA-GEL (57%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (59%); SHIMON PERES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (98%); SYRIA (97%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



384 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: People's Republic of Exports

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
With the global recession making consumers and businesses more price-conscious, China is grabbing market share from its export competitors, solidifying a dominance in world trade that many economists say could last long after any economic recovery.
 China's exports this year have already vaulted it past Germany to become the world's biggest exporter. Now, those market share gains are threatening to increase trade frictions with the United States and Europe. The European Commission proposed on Tuesday to extend antidumping duties on Chinese, as well as Vietnamese, shoe imports.
 China is winning a larger piece of a shrinking pie. Although world trade declined this year because of the recession, consumers are demanding lower-priced goods and Beijing, determined to keep its export machine humming, is finding a way to deliver. 
 The country's factories are aggressively reducing prices -- allowing China to gain ground in old markets and make inroads in new ones. 
 The most striking gains have come in the United States, where China has displaced Canada this year as the largest supplier of imports.
 In the first seven months of 2008, just under 15 percent of American imports came from China. Over the same period this year, 19 percent did. Meanwhile, Canada's share of American imports fell to 14.5 percent, from nearly 17 percent.
 Besides increasing its share of many American markets, China is increasing the value of exports in absolute terms in some categories. In knit apparel, for instance, American imports from China jumped 10 percent through July of this year -- while America's imports from Mexico, Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador plunged 19 to 24 percent in each country, according to Global Trade Information Services.
 Indeed, China's said Wednesday that its export slump eased in September, down just 15 percent, a strong improvement over August's decline. Economists said it was a sign of an improving global economy and renewed strength for Chinese exporters. 
 A similar tale is told around the world, from Japan to Italy. 
 One reason is the ability of Chinese manufacturers to quickly slash prices by reducing wages and other costs in production zones that often rely on migrant workers. Factory managers here say American buyers are demanding they do just that.
 ''The buyers are getting more and more tough in bargaining for lower prices, especially American buyers,'' says Liao Yuan, the head of international trade at the Changrun Garment Company, which is based in southern China and exports jeans to Europe and the United States. ''They offer $2.85 per pair of jeans for a package of a dozen, when the reasonable price is $7.''
 Because China produces a diversified portfolio of low-priced and essential items, analysts say the country's exports can hold up relatively well in a recession. Few other countries can match what has come to be called the ''China Price.''
 ''China has a huge advantage,'' says Nicholas R. Lardy, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''They can adjust to market changes very rapidly. They have flexibility in their labor markets. And as consumers trade down the quality ladder, China can benefit.''
 The expiration of textile quotas in large parts of the world this year has also allowed China to increase its market penetration.
 But equally important are government policies that support this country's export sector -- from Beijing keeping its currency weak against the dollar to its determination to subsidize exporters through tax credits and billions of dollars in low-interest loans from state-run banks.
 The results have been impressive. All told, in the first half of 2009, China exported $521 billion worth of clothes, toys, electronics, grains and other commodities to the rest of the world.
 Though that represented a 22 percent decrease from the first half of 2008, it compares favorably to other major exporters. German exports have fallen 34 percent over the same period. Japanese exports were down 37 percent and American exports 24 percent, according to Global Trade Information Services.
 Trading powerhouses like Germany are suffering from weaker demand for heavy equipment, automobiles and luxury goods. But the value of exports from oil-producing countries, like Russia and Saudi Arabia, has fallen even more. 
 One reason is that the price of oil has plummeted from last year's record highs. But since oil is priced in dollars and the value of the dollar has fallen markedly, so have the value of American imports from these countries -- over 45 percent in the case of Russia's exports to the world.
 Meanwhile, American imports from Saudi Arabia have fallen 65 percent. 
 China's market share gains are mostly at the expense of countries like Japan, Italy, Canada, Mexico and Central America -- in industries that China has long sought to dominate.
 China's share of furniture imports in the United States has grown to 54 percent, from 50 percent, over the last year, while furniture exports to the United States from Canada and Italy have plunged 40 percent from a year ago. In Europe, Chinese textiles and apparel have gained market share in every major country, after the quota expiration in January. Not long ago, Italy's shoe imports were dominated by Romania; now China has a commanding share.
 Japan once relied on electronics shipments to the United States, but every year for the past decade Japan has lost market share to China. This year is no different. In 1999, electronics goods from Japan made up 18 percent of America's electronics imports. Today, that figure is down to 7 percent. 
 China's market share has climbed 10 to 20 percent from a year ago. Together, the gains are helping China maintain its large trade surplus with the rest of the world, reviving worries about global trade imbalances -- and once again putting the spotlight on China's currency, the renminbi. Specialists note, however, that much of China's gains stem from the fact that it is increasingly assembling products whose components are made elsewhere, and re-exporting them. 
 After letting its currency rise against the dollar, beginning in July 2005, China is once again pegging it closely to the dollar. As the dollar has fallen against other major currencies like the euro -- about 15 percent since a year ago -- Chinese imports have become more and more competitive.
 Now, European officials are clamoring for China to reduce its flood of exports and pressing for antidumping investigations.
 The International Monetary Fund is calling on China to rebalance its economy and allow its currency to appreciate against other major currencies.
 The United States -- which for years complained about China's weak currency and soaring trade imbalances -- has largely been silent in recent months, analysts say, partly because Washington is trying to improve relations with Beijing at a time when it desperately needs China to purchase American debt.
 ''Obama's interest is not to push China to appreciate the currency, but to get them to pay the bills,'' Dong Tao, an economist at Credit Suisse says, referring to China's purchases of American debt.
 For its part, Beijing worries that raising the value of its currency could be catastrophic, damaging exports and diluting the effect of the government's aggressive stimulus package.
 But the country's leaders are well aware of the need to shift the economy away from heavy dependence on exports and toward stronger domestic consumption. Indeed, China is eager to move up the value chain, by selling higher-priced goods like computer chips, aircraft and pharmaceuticals -- all of which would bring better-paying jobs and healthier economic growth.
 Moreover, many economists say that as Chinese consumers become richer, they will buy more of their own goods. And as the dollar falls, it will make American exports more competitive globally, including in China. Those trends together could eventually help rebalance global trade -- which became overly reliant on Americans buying cheap Chinese goods and China buying American debt. Right now, Beijing worries about growing trade frictions with its biggest trading partners, the European Union and the United States, and the possibility of some countries initiating protectionist measures.
 Chinese exporters, meanwhile, fear that even as they gain market share the pressure to produce at low prices will hurt them and the quality of their products.
 Ms. Liao at the Changrun factory says many producers are essentially scavenging to source raw material.
 ''Some even go to old factories to collect abandoned fabrics from old stock, so they can save two-thirds of the cost on raw material,'' she says. ''These fabrics are in very bad shape. They won't wash, and easily wear out.''
 But the discounting period may be here for a while with many economists forecasting a lengthy period of slow growth in Europe and the United States.
 ''China is going to get stronger,'' Mr. Tao at Credit Suisse says. ''Its competitors are getting weaker in the downturn. And the Chinese state has helped bail out some industries, like the auto industry; so in the future some new industries may emerge as exporters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A seamstress in Anhui province in China. The recession has increased demand for low-cost goods, playing to China's hand.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIANAN YU/REUTERS)(pg. B1)
The container terminal at Yingkou, in northeast China. The country's grip on world trade has strengthened, increasing trade frictions with the United States and Europe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. B8) CHART: Holding Up Better: The global financial slowdown has affected all of the largest exporters . . .
 But it has affected China less than the others.(Source: Global Trade Atlas)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET SHARE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%)

COMPANY: GLOBAL TRADE INFORMATION SERVICES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (73%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



385 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Shares Wander Ahead of Bank Earnings

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Stocks were narrowly mixed on Tuesday as traders waited for some of the country's largest banks to declare how they performed over the summer.
 Some big companies that sell everything from shampoo to metal have already reported improving earnings. The consumer products company Johnson & Johnson reported a better-than-expected profit, even though its sales lagged behind predictions. Last week, the aluminum maker Alcoa reported a profit after three quarters of losses. 
 But many investors are focusing on financial firms. In the days ahead, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and Bank of America will announce their third-quarter earnings, giving anxious investors a glimpse into how they were recovering from the shocks of the credit crisis and how their portfolios of business loans, mortgages and consumer credit were withstanding the toll of job losses and recession. 
 Worries about the fate of the CIT Group, the troubled commercial lender, were also weighing on banking shares after the company announced that its chief executive would step down at the end of the year. Shares of CIT, which is struggling to stave off filing for bankruptcy, fell by more than 10 percent and closed at less than a dollar.
 Financial stocks across the board receded, whittling away some of the gains that had lifted banking shares about 30 percent since the beginning of the third quarter. Goldman Sachs, one of Wall Street's most powerful banks, fell 1.5 percent to $187.23 a share after a banking analyst, Meredith Whitney, downgraded it to neutral. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 14.74 points or 0.15 percent, to 9,871.06, and the wider Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 3 points, or 0.28 percent, at 1,073.19. The Nasdaq rose 0.75 points, or 0.04 percent, to 2,139.89.
 Shares of the networking giant Cisco Systems pushed slightly higher after the company announced it would buy Starent Networks, a company that makes products for wireless networks. Cisco's $3 billion purchase marked the latest in a string of acquisitions for the cash-rich company. Shares of Starent surged 17 percent. 
 Health care stocks fell as a crucial Senate committee passed a health care bill with support from all the panel's Democrats and one Republican senator. The vote marked a milestone in the Democrats' push to expand health insurance to millions more Americans, but set the stage for a debate in the full Senate over how the bill would affect insurance premiums and health care costs.
 As stocks drifted into the red, so did the dollar. 
 The value of the dollar fell for another day against other major currencies, slipping to $1.48 against the euro. The Japanese yen strengthened to 89.7 against the dollar, and the prices of gold and oil continued to gain ground as investors piled into hard commodities. Oil rose 88 cents, settling at $74.15 a barrel. 
 ''Dollar weakness looks like it's here to stay,'' said Vinny Catalano, the chief investment strategist at Blue Marble Research. ''It's not something that's going to happen tomorrow, but it is something that weighs on things rather negatively. The losers are going to be the consumers because the cost of buying things is going up.''
 The price of gold hit a record high of more than $1,060 an ounce in New York as investors bet that paper currencies would continue to weaken against precious metals with a return to inflation.
 But the demand for government debt crept back on Tuesday, days after an auction of 30-year bonds drew weak interest. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 102 10/32, and the yield fell to 3.35 percent from 3.38 percent late Monday. 
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (84%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TOILETRIES MFG (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (62%); EURO (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (65%); ALCOA INC (57%); CIT GROUP INC (56%); STARENT NETWORKS CORP (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (65%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); CIT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (65%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: MEREDITH WHITNEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



386 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: 'Tent City' Of Homeless Is Rejected In Florida

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE and LYNN WADDELL; Damien Cave reported from Miami, and Lynn Waddell from Tampa.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
When retirees say they have bought guns to protect themselves from a plan to house the homeless a quarter mile from their neighborhood, Florida politicians pay attention. When 200 people show up at a 9 a.m. meeting, some wearing yellow T-shirts that say ''no tent city,'' elected officials tend to go along. 
 That may be the lesson of a 4-to-3 vote Tuesday by the Hillsborough County Commission, which killed a plan from Catholic Charities to create an encampment for the homeless in Tampa. 
 It was the end, for now, of an emotional dispute between residents fearful of the homeless and advocates who had argued for immediate help in a county with the state's largest homeless population and where the recession has been especially severe. 
 Frank Murphy, president of Catholic Charities for the St. Petersburg Diocese, said the commissioners sidestepped a problem that had been ignored for years. ''They just don't think it's important, I guess,'' he said. 
 The plan would have used a 12-acre church lot to serve 250 people for up to 90 days in tents and small ''casitas'' that look like wooden sheds with windows. The diocese opened a similar camp two years ago in nearby Pinellas County, and Mr. Murphy emphasized that the plan for Tampa would have included background checks for the people placed there, along with fences and a round-the-clock police presence. 
 ''People call it a 'tent city,' '' Mr. Murphy said. ''It's more a social service model where people come in and do a lot of case work, where we ask, 'How can we help this person?' '' 
 The closest residential neighborhood, East Lake, is across a divided highway and behind a row of businesses -- 1,200 feet away in all. That was not nearly enough for Randall Woosely, 46, an unemployed former cab driver living with his sister in East Lake, who came to pressure the commission to vote no. 
 ''I've been in jail; I know this criminal element,'' Mr. Woosely said, noting that he had just served 10 months on a charge related to stolen property. He added: ''I'm not opposed to helping homeless people. It's just this is no place for that.''
 County leaders agreed. Three of those who voted no -- Al Higginbotham, Kevin White and Ken Hagan -- said there must be a better place for the homeless. They also cited crime as a concern, despite testimony from the police in Pinellas County, who called the camp there a success. Mr. Higginbotham initially seemed to favor the idea. ''In these tough financial times, someone has stepped forward and has been willing to reach out a hand of generosity,'' he said. ''That's what this country has been founded on.''
 Then he introduced a motion to reject the plan. For explanation, he read accusations from police incident reports at the Pinellas County camp, including those for domestic violence, theft and an alleged rape. He offered little context: In the rape case the victim was a camp resident who had recently smoked crack cocaine and refused to prosecute. 
 The impression Mr. Higginbotham and opponents created was that of a lawless shantytown where the homeless would benefit from programs paid for with tax money -- an idea many saw as unfair. As Mr. Woosely's stepfather, William Aguiar, put it: ''I've gotten by. If I can manage that, so can anybody else.'' 
 Few opponents of the plan accepted advocates' arguments that the recession had pushed otherwise hardworking families into the streets, or that the needs were greater than the current infrastructure could handle. 
 Linda Hinson, 61, a retiree in East Lake, said defeat of the camp plan meant ''I don't have to go out and get a gun.'' She declared that there were already enough shelters. 
 ''No there's not,'' interjected Tom Atchison, director of a social service agency with 120 long-term beds for the homeless.
 Mr. Atchison told Ms. Hinson there was a six-month wait for a bed, but she ignored his comment. She kept talking about crime as she pushed an elderly neighbor in a wheelchair toward the parking lot. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mimi Paez, center, clapped after the Hillsborough County Commission voted to deny a request for a homeless encampment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SKIP O'ROURKE/ST. PETERSBURG TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (92%); RELIGION (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (73%); CHARITIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



387 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Defying Pariah Status, Guinea Boasts Of a Deal With a Chinese Company

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal 

 BODY:
Guinea's military government, facing international sanctions and heavy strictures over a mass killing of unarmed demonstrators, is highlighting a recent agreement with a Chinese company that could provide it with billions of dollars. 
 Mamadi Kallo, the military junta's secretary of state in charge of public works, confirmed Tuesday that the deal had been in the works for months, but he said it was signed only over the weekend, well after the civilian killings and rapes on Sept. 28. 
 China has yet to confirm the deal, leading some analysts to suggest that the Guinean government was trying to bolster its legitimacy in the face of international condemnation. But if the deal has progressed as Guinean officials have described, it could clash with the tough positions laid out by the junta's critics, including France and the United States. 
 Many nations condemned the massacre and swiftly backed away from any agreements with the military government after its soldiers fired upon protesters in a stadium in the capital, Conakry. On Tuesday, a group comprising the European Union, the African Union and the United Nations, among others, called for the junta's ''withdrawal,'' and some of Guinea's neighbors in West Africa have threatened sanctions.
 For the second straight day, shops, businesses and offices stayed shut in Conakry, as residents observed a call by unions to stay home to protest the killings. There was little traffic, and the city was quiet, residents said. 
 Mr. Kallo said the deal had been signed with a private company, not with the Chinese government. He said the company had agreed to invest ''up to $7 billion'' in electricity and aviation infrastructure -- an enormous sum for a country whose gross domestic product is only $4.5 billion. Electric service in Guinea's capital is shaky at best, and the country of 10 million people, about the size of Oregon, is virtually without internal air links. 
 ''How the Chinese are to be compensated hasn't been decided,'' Mr. Kallo said. 
 China has been determined in its pursuit of minerals in Africa, often without consideration of how countries are governed, and analysts said a number of Chinese had been seen in recent months at Guinea's ministry of mines.
 The Chinese approach has made serious headway on a continent where governments are routinely implicated in human rights violations; over the weekend, the Rwandan president, Paul Kagame, praised China for ''investing in infrastructure and building roads'' and criticized the West for merely ''handing out development aid.'' 
 Mr. Kallo did not name the company involved in the agreement, but news reports have identified it as the China International Fund, which one expert described as a ''semi-independent operator.'' Mr. Kallo said the Angolan state oil company, Sonangol, was also part of the deal. 
 ''This has nothing to do with the current situation,'' Mr. Kallo said of the deal. ''They came here well before the death of the former president,'' he said, referring to Lansana Conte, the longtime dictator whose death last December gave rise to the military junta that rules the country. 
 But the government's sudden promotion of the agreement, an effort led by the country's minister of mines in interviews in recent days, has led analysts to say it is an attempt by the military regime to demonstrate that it is not an international pariah. State television has also repeatedly broadcast allusions to the Guinean-Chinese friendship. 
 Several human rights leaders in Conakry said the quasi public relations offensive would be ineffective because Guineans were still angry, and grieving, over the stadium massacre. 
 One expert on Africa-China relations, David H. Shinn, a former United States ambassador to Ethiopia and Burkina Faso, said ''the announcement remains something of an embarrassment to China and plays into its policy of emphasizing state sovereignty and avoiding interference in governance and human rights issues in other countries.'' 
 Mr. Shinn said the deal ''clearly complicates the ability of those in the international community who want to put pressure on Guinea.'' 
 ''Certainly the timing of this is unfortunate,'' he said. ''Obviously, it puts Guinea in a much stronger position than it would have been.''
 In Conakry, human rights campaigners had a different view, drawing a sharply unfavorable comparison between the Chinese approach and heavy American criticism of the junta, which they said had broad popular appeal. 
 The Chinese are ''perceived as supporting the dictatorship and the junta and against the will of the people,'' said Mamadi Kaba, president of the Guinean branch of the African Assembly for Human Rights. ''Guineans are convinced there will never be development unless there is a lot more democracy. So the American support is much more important.'' 
 Thierno Balde of the Institut de Recherche sur la Democratie et l'Etat de Droit, a Conakry good-government group, said: ''What the deal signifies is, 'Since the Western companies don't want to work with us, we'll turn to the Chinese and loosen the grip.' 
 ''But people's preoccupations are definitely elsewhere now,'' Mr. Balde said. ''People are definitely more preoccupied with the killings.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Wednesday with an article about the Guinean junta's claim of a major investment deal with China just weeks after soldiers killed as many as 157 political protesters at a Sept. 28 rally in the capital, Conakry, overstated what is known about bodies in the photograph, which showed several laid out to be identified by relatives. The government said the bodies were those of protesters. But bereft family members found few of their missing loved ones among the bodies, and, noting that none showed gunshot wounds, raised the possibility that the government had rounded up random bodies from hospital morgues.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The bodies of protesters killed by the military in Conakry, Guinea, last month were laid out for family members on Oct. 2.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUC GNAGO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); MINES & MINING (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (54%) GUINEA (97%); CHINA (94%); AFRICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SENEGAL (79%); ANGOLA (79%); RWANDA (79%); FRANCE (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



388 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 BRITAIN TRIES TO HALT 
 Execution in China
 Diplomatic officials and rights groups in Britain are waging a campaign to save the life of a British man who has been sentenced to death by a Chinese court for drug smuggling despite signs of mental illness. PAGE A6
 CYNICISM OVER AFGHAN VOTE 
 As experts tried to determine whether the fraud in Afghanistan's presidential election was so extensive that a runoff vote was required, many Afghans expressed cynicism after years of disappointment in their government and said a second round would only lead to another flawed result. PAGE A4
 FRENCH INVESTIGATE SCIENTIST
 A French court placed a physicist working at CERN, the huge research center in Switzerland, under formal investigation for suspected ''conspiracy with a terrorist enterprise.'' PAGE A13
 China's Gas Deal With Russia A6 
 National
 COURT CONSIDERS RULE
 On Deporting Felons
 Several Supreme Court justices appeared sympathetic to a defendant who unwittingly agreed to be deported by pleading guilty to a drug crime. But they seemed uncertain about whether a rule could be fashioned to address extreme cases without causing turmoil in the justice system. PAGE A16
 LOWERING MINIMUM WAGE
 Colorado, one of 10 states in which the minimum wage is tied to inflation, plans to lower its minimum wage next year, becoming the first state in the nation do so. PAGE A16
 SCHOOL TO REVISE POLICY
 School officials in Newark, Del., said they would revise the district's code of conduct after an outcry over a first-grader's suspension. The child was ordered to an alternative school for troubled youth after he brought to school a camping tool that included a small fold-out knife. PAGE A16
 Reduced Sentence in Spy Case A20
 A Case of Homegrown Medicine A14 
 New York
 A FORMER AIDE TO RANGEL
 Will Run Against Him
 Representative Charles B. Rangel, whose personal finances are the focus of a Congressional ethics investigation, is suddenly facing another problem: Vince Morgan, one of his former aides, is running against him in next year's election. PAGE A25
 Business
 JUSTICES TO HEAR APPEAL
 By Former Enron Chief
 The Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal from Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former Enron Corporation chief executive who was sent to prison in 2006 for his role in the company's spectacular collapse. PAGE B1
 A BLACKBERRY DO-OVER
 Many customers and some reviewers found the BlackBerry Storm, Research in Motion's touch-screen answer to the megaselling iPhone from Apple, to be buggy and hard to use. This week, the company is trying a a do-over, the Storm 2. PAGE B1 
 SELLING MUSIC SUBSCRIPTIONS
 The two entrepreneurs behind Kazaa, one of the file-sharing services that hurt the music industry, have created a start-up they believe can finally make paid music subscriptions work. But they may have a hard time getting licenses from music labels, which have not viewed their past digital music efforts favorably. PAGE B1
 AWARDS FOR PODCASTS
 The creators of the National Magazine Awards plan to announce that they are adding 12 new categories covering online media, including podcasts. PAGE B9
 U.A.W. TO VOTE ON CONTRACT
 The United Automobile Workers union is asking 41,000 members who work at the Ford Motor Company to approve a deal that gives the automaker some of the same concessions that General Motors and Chrysler have received. PAGE B9
 Bear Stearns Trial Begins B5
 Intel's Strong Quarter B3
 Sports
 AN ALL-TIME GREAT, 
 Reconsidered
 A new documentary about Josh Gibson, one of the best baseball players ever, tells the story of his athletic accomplishments but also tries to make the case that his drinking and apparent demons were caused by the brain tumor that eventually killed him. PAGE B14
 QUARTERBACKS' FAMOUS DADS
 The Oaks Christian Lions are one of the nation's top high school football teams, but fans tend to focus on the parents in the stands: quarterback Nick Montana is the son of Joe Montana, and his backup is Trevor Gretzky, the son of Wayne Gretzky. PAGE B11
 Arts
 HEARING MAN IN DEAF ROLE
 Stirs Protests in New York
 A stage adaptation of the Carson McCullers novel ''The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter'' is receiving a major production at the New York Theater Workshop. But deaf actors and deaf theater groups are protesting the decisions to give a speaking role to a major character who is deaf and mute in the book, and to cast him with a hearing actor. PAGE C1
 GRANT TO DIGITIZE ARCHIVES
 The New York Philharmonic and the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., are the latest of institutions to receive grants from the Leon Levy Foundation to preserve and digitize their archival collections and to make them available online. PAGE C1
 Dining
 A LOOK AT CAKES 
 Gone Awry
 Cake Wrecks, Jen Yates's popular blog and new book of the same name, celebrates the folly of professional confections gone horribly, horribly wrong. PAGE D1 
 EXPLORING PASTA'S PAST
 Zanini De Vita's latest book, the ''Encyclopedia of Pasta,'' places the staple in its social and historical context. PAGE D1
 A Kimchi's New York Debut D3
 Obituaries
 LARRY JANSEN, 89
 A right-handed pitcher for the New York Giants, he had 23 victories in 1951 and helped propel the team to their 1951 National League championship. PAGE A23
 DICKIE PETERSON, 63
 His screaming vocals and pounding bass lines helped push the psychedelic blues-rock trio Blue Cheer into the musical territory that would later be called heavy metal. PAGE A22
 Op-ed
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A27
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); SENTENCING (89%); ETHICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); FELONIES (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); DEPORTATION (73%); SMUGGLING (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (65%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (65%); SMARTPHONES (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (57%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (81%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN LABORATORY FOR PARTICLE PHYSICS (56%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (51%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



389 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Profit at CSX Falls by 23%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The CSX Corporation, the railroad operator, said Tuesday that its third-quarter earnings fell 23 percent from a year earlier because shipping demand remained weak. 
 CSX, which operates from Canada to Florida and west to the Mississippi River, said overall shipping fell 15 percent in the three months through September from a year earlier. 
 The biggest drops were in shipments of coal, cars, construction goods and consumer goods. The company warned that demand for coal, one of its biggest segments, would remain weak well into next year.
 But CSX said that the third-quarter decline in total volume was less steep than in the second quarter, possibly indicating the start of an economic recovery. 
 CSX earned $293 million, or 74 cents a share, in the third quarter, down from $380 million, or 93 cents, a year earlier. Revenue fell 23 percent, to $2.29 billion, mostly because of lower fuel surcharges.
 The profit surpassed the average analyst forecast of 71 cents a share.
 The company, based in Jacksonville, Fla., released its results after the close of market trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); COMPANY REVENUES (88%); ENERGY DEMAND (88%); COAL MARKETS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (70%)

COMPANY: CSX CORP (97%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (97%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (97%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (57%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



390 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PANGUITCH JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: In Rural America, a Rare Case of Homegrown Medicine

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: PANGUITCH, Utah 

 BODY:
Dr. Mitch Miller drove through town on a recent sunny afternoon -- a journey that took all of five minutes -- and stopped his pickup near a vacant lot. A new home was being built there, a mile from the hospital where he works.
 ''It's way too big for us,'' Dr. Miller said, gazing over what was still just a stick frame, rising in a race with the colder weather that has already started to settle in here at 6,600 feet on the southern Utah plateau. ''But we figure we're going to be here forever, so we should have it the way we want.'' 
 The rule of thumb in small-town America is that doctors go away. End of story. Rural spots like Panguitch -- population 1,500, 90 minutes to the nearest city of any size -- are increasingly pressed to have doctors at all. Rarer still are physicians like Dr. Miller, 32, who grew up here, went away to study and hone his craft, then came back to practice. He and his wife, Ashlee, and their three children, ages 1, 2 and 5, returned last summer. 
 The ''forever'' word that Dr. Miller uses with such casual aplomb is pretty unusual, too. At a time when many Americans are struggling to glimpse much past the next paycheck or layoff notice, ''forever'' connotes the long-view perspective, the life mapped out, the sense of a future that can be seen and grasped.
 Perhaps it is something in the water. Dr. Miller is one of three physicians at Garfield Memorial Hospital -- 41 beds and two trauma rooms adjacent to a meetinghouse for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints -- and none of them have ever worked anywhere else since their residency training. First jobs became careers. One of Dr. Miller's colleagues has been here 10 years, the other 15.
 Garfield Memorial is a place where many of the employees have deep local roots and specialty medicine does not exist. It is primary care and all hands on deck when the emergency room has business, which means, the doctors say, that they do not compete and egos get checked at the door.
 ''We share everything alike, even sometimes in making rounds because we figure three heads are better than one,'' said Dr. Richard Birch, 50, the hospital's medical dean with 15 years under his stethoscope.
 Hospital employees and town residents say Garfield Memorial and the town of Panguitch are also deeply intertwined. 
 Over the decades, the hospital has been owned by the Mormon Church, and, more recently, by a nonprofit company in Salt Lake City, Intermountain Healthcare. But in 2000, after years of financial losses that Intermountain said it could no longer sustain, an arrangement was worked out transferring ownership to the county while continuing under Intermountain's management. 
 Residents passed a sales tax increase for a hospital subsidy and formed a foundation. Malpractice insurance rates under the Intermountain umbrella stayed affordable, the doctors say, which allowed Garfield to continue delivering babies, a medical service that has faded especially fast in other rural communities around the nation.
 Those interconnections in turn led to a feeling of local ownership, and the expression of sentiments that can sound very old-fashioned, if not jarring, at a time when health care has become polarized. 
 ''We're so proud of our hospital,'' said Anna Pollock, a volunteer at the Hospital Foundation's thrift store, which sells donated second-hand clothing and other items and pours about $3,500 a month into the hospital, for equipment.
 The rolling rhythms of the tourism trade are crucial as well to understanding this place. Panguitch, founded by Mormon settlers in the 1870s, including Dr. Miller's ancestors, once thrived as the downtown for an empire of sheep ranches. But the local constellation of national parks -- Bryce Canyon, Zion and Capitol Reef are within a 100-mile radius, drawing upwards of three million visitors a year -- is the bigger force now.
 The summer flood-tide of tourist injuries and illnesses -- altitude sickness, sprained and broken ankles (Bryce Canyon Specials in hospital jargon), heart congestion and heat exhaustion -- keeps the hospital's work varied, and bolsters the bottom line as well because most tourists, hospital administrators say, have health insurance.
 ''It makes every season different,'' said Dr. Todd Mooney, 42, who has practiced here for 10 years. ''But when it's over, there's definitely a collective 'whew.' ''
 Dr. Miller grew up steeped in those seasonal tides. His family ran a motel and campground near Bryce Canyon, which gave him a taste of the outside world, he said, and also a stern education in what it takes to tough it out in a place like this. Summers were spent living by the motel, winters back in town, watching his parents get by until spring on the odd job and make-do.
 Now, that cycle of local life is once again turning -- tourist medical cases slowing to a trickle, belt-tightening around town already begun. Most of the motels and restaurants will be closed by the end of the month. 
 ''It's tourism in the season, unemployment in winter,'' said Tony Russo, 24, who grew up in Las Vegas and now leads all-terrain vehicle trips into the back-country. Mr. Russo drove to the hospital with his wife Cassandra, 31, on a recent evening to have a doctor examine their two children.
 Dr. Miller, earlier that same day, was checking in on Dorothy Martin, a 73-year-old artist from Laporte, Colo. Ms. Martin had been in the hospital for nearly a week by then, after an evacuation from Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, about 75 miles from here. Her heart condition had flared up while she was on a hike with her husband.
 ''I was looking for a place to paint,'' she said from her hospital bed. 
 Dr. Miller listened to Ms. Martin's lungs and said that her blood-oxygen levels had climbed to respectable levels.
 ''I think you're good to go,'' he said, ''unless you've enjoyed it so much you want to stay.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Mitch Miller, 32, left, at Garfield Memorial Hospital, is a rarity in rural America: He is committed to practicing medicine ''forever'' in Panguitch, Utah.
Life in Panguitch turns slow during the winter, when tourism wanes at the area's national parks.
 Cassandra and Tony Russo took their daughters, Angelina, 9 weeks, and Lydia, 9, to Garfield Hospital in Panguitch. They live in Tropic, which is about 28 miles southeast of Panguitch. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Utah 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); RELIGION (88%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); CITIES (73%); CHILDREN (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



391 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Campaign Chief for Rangel Will Run Against Him in 2010

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Representative Charles B. Rangel, whose personal finances are the focus of a Congressional ethics investigation, is suddenly facing another problem: one of his former aides is running against him in next year's election. 
 The aide, Vince Morgan, now a bank executive, announced this week that he was planning to run against the congressman in the Democratic primary.
 In an interview, Mr. Morgan said Mr. Rangel, who has represented Harlem in Congress since 1971, had not adequately answered questions about his financial dealings. ''He got caught with his hand in the cookie jar,'' said Mr. Morgan, 40, who was a special assistant to Mr. Rangel and then his campaign director in 2002. ''He is going to have to take responsibility.''
 Since last year, the House ethics committee has been examining a number of issues involving Mr. Rangel, including his rental of four below-market apartments in Harlem, his failure to pay taxes on more than $70,000 in income from a villa in the Dominican Republic, and his fund-raising for the Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Service at the City College of New York.
 The panel recently said it would also review Mr. Rangel's failure to report hundreds of thousands of dollars in income and assets on financial disclosure statements from 2002 through 2006. 
 Lawyers for Mr. Rangel have said that sloppy bookkeeping led him to file incomplete or inaccurate financial disclosure forms; a spokesman has said that the congressman has been taking steps to correct the errors.
 Mr. Morgan, who worked for Mr. Rangel from 2001 to 2003, expressed some misgivings about taking him on. ''I loved him,'' he said. ''He is very affable and he is a warm person, which is why I am hesitant about bad-mouthing him.''
 But he said Mr. Rangel was unresponsive to the district's problems, like high unemployment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vince Morgan 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



392 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Colorado Plans to Lower Minimum Wage in 2010

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
When Coloradoans voted to tie the state's minimum wage to inflation, they were trying to make sure low-wage workers did not fall too far behind the cost of living. But their vote has had an unintended consequence: Colorado plans to lower its minimum wage next year because of falling inflation rates, becoming the first state in the nation do so. 
 The state's Department of Labor and Employment said Tuesday that it planned to lower the minimum wage to $7.24 from $7.28, after an August federal consumer price index report showed that the cost of living had fallen in the state. A public hearing on the issue is set for next month.
 Colorado is one of 10 states where the minimum wage is tied to inflation. The others are Arizona, Florida, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon, Vermont and Washington. 
 ''Colorado's Constitution doesn't give us any leeway,'' said a state labor department spokesman, Bill Thoennes. ''At this point, we don't believe we have the option not to lower the minimum wage.'' 
 In 2006, in an effort to keep low-wage workers' salaries commensurate with the cost of living, voters approved a change to the State Constitution that requires the minimum wage to be adjusted with inflation.
 As a result of the change, the minimum wage in Colorado has risen along with the cost of living. But this is the first time officials are faced with the prospect of lowering the wage to keep pace with a faltering economy. The federal minimum wage is $7.25 an hour, and it is illegal for most businesses in Colorado to pay workers less than that, so virtually all low-wage workers will see a drop of only 3 cents per hour. But advocates for poor Coloradoans say even that slight drop is enough to hurt people. 
 ''It's not a lot of money, but for the people who are working for minimum wage, it means lot to them,'' said Rich Jones, director of policy and research at the Bell Policy Center, a progressive research group in Denver that supported changing the Constitution. 
 Mr. Jones said voters had approved the change because the federal minimum wage had not risen for years and Colorado's inflation rates had remained relatively steady. He said he hoped employers would choose not to lower wages for their poorest workers even though state law will in all likelihood allow them to do so. 
 Mr. Thoennes said the state labor department was discussing the pending wage decrease with the attorney general's office. 
 ''This being such new territory for us,'' he said, ''we want to make sure we are not making any erroneous assumptions.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); COST OF LIVING (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); APPROVALS (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



393 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: A Push for Payments If Oil Exports Drop

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia is trying to enlist other oil-producing countries to support a provocative idea: if wealthy countries reduce their oil consumption to combat global warming, they should pay compensation to oil producers.
 The oil-rich kingdom has pushed this position for years in earlier climate-treaty negotiations. While it has not succeeded, its efforts have sometimes delayed or disrupted discussions. The kingdom is once again gearing up to take a hard line on the issue at international negotiations scheduled for Copenhagen in December.
 The chief Saudi negotiator, Mohammad al-Sabban, described the position as a ''make or break'' provision for the Saudis, as nations stake out their stance before the global climate summit scheduled for the end of the year. 
 ''Assisting us as oil-exporting countries in achieving economic diversification is very crucial for us through foreign direct investments, technology transfer, insurance and funding,'' Mr. Sabban said in an e-mail message. 
 This Saudi position has emerged periodically as a source of dispute since the earliest global climate talks, in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. It is surfacing again as Saudi Arabia tries to build a coalition of producers to extract concessions in Copenhagen. 
 Petroleum exporters have long used delaying tactics during climate talks. They view any attempt to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by developed countries as a menace to their economies. 
 The original treaty meant to combat global warming, the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, contains provisions that in Saudi Arabia's view require such compensation. 
 Mr. Sabban outlined his stance at climate talks in Bangkok this month. 
 Environmental advocates denounced the idea, saying the Saudi stance hampered progress to assist poor nations that are already suffering from the effect of climate change, and that genuinely need financial assistance.
 ''It is like the tobacco industry asking for compensation for lost revenues as a part of a settlement to address the health risks of smoking,'' said Jake Schmidt, the international climate policy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''The worst of this racket is that they have held up progress on supporting adaptation funding for the most vulnerable for years because of this demand.'' 
 Saudi Arabia is highly dependent on oil exports, which account for most of the government's budget. Last year, when prices peaked, the kingdom's oil revenue swelled by 37 percent, to $281 billion, according to Jadwa Investment, a Saudi bank. That was more than four times the 2002 level. At one point in 2008, the average gasoline price in the United States surpassed $4 a gallon.
 Saudi exports are expected to drop to $115 billion this year, after oil prices fell. American gasoline prices are hovering around $2.50 a gallon.
 The one-year swing in the kingdom's revenues shows that oil prices are likely to be a bigger factor in Saudi Arabia's future that any restrictions on greenhouse gases, said David G. Victor, an energy expert at the University of California, San Diego. 
 Mr. Victor dismissed the Saudi stance as a stunt, saying that the real threat for petroleum exporters came from improvements in fuel economy and rising mandates for alternative fuels in the transportation sector, both of which would reduce the need for petroleum products. ''Oil exporters have always, in my view, far overblown the near-term effects of carbon limits on demand for their products,'' Mr. Victor said. ''For the Saudis this may be a deal-breaker, but the Saudis are not essential players. In some sense, one sign that a climate agreement is effective is that big hydrocarbon exporters hate it.''
 A recent study by the International Energy Agency, which advises industrialized nations, found that the cumulative revenue of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries would drop by 16 percent from 2008 to 2030 if the world agreed to slash emissions, as opposed to the projection if there were no treaty. 
 But with oil projected to average $100 a barrel, the energy agency estimated that OPEC members would still earn $23 trillion over that period. 
 Mr. Sabban, however, cited an older study by Charles River, a consulting firm, which found that the losses in revenue for Saudi Arabia alone would be $19 billion a year starting in 2012. 
 The Copenhagen talks were a major point on the agenda of the last OPEC conference. 
 But not every oil-exporting country is falling in line with the Saudi position. Some have been trying a different approach that has earned the backing of environmental groups. For example, Ecuador, OPEC's newest member, said last year that it was willing to freeze oil exploration in the Amazon forest if it got some financial rewards for doing so.
 The Saudi negotiator said that the compensation mechanism was an integral part of the global climate regime that has been in place since the 1990s and that was not up for renegotiation. 
 ''It is a very serious trend that we need to follow and influence if we want to minimize its adverse impacts on our economies and our people,'' Mr. Sabban said in an e-mail message to other OPEC officials. ''That does not mean we would like to obstruct any progress or that we do not want to join any international agreement. We will do that if the deal is fair and equitable and does not transfer the burden to us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SMOKING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (73%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



394 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Mayoral Foes Trade Attacks In First Debate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
The New York City comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., sought to turn his first televised debate with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg into a feisty assault on Mr. Bloomberg's maneuver to change term limits, his lavish campaign spending and tax increases, saying Tuesday night that the mayor ''plays by his own set of rules.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, by turns clinical and fatherly, assured voters that they knew him by now and said Mr. Thompson had blown his chance to show he could be a leader, especially as president of the Board of Education. 
 ''You don't get a medal for rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic, and that's exactly what he did,'' the mayor said of his opponent's tenure on the board. 
 It was immediately apparent that despite a ho-hum campaign, the debate would be contentious and occasionally disorderly. A heckler interrupted Mr. Bloomberg during his opening remarks, yelling, ''Eight is enough,'' and ''Mike, what are you doing here? We voted for term limits!'' 
 At one point, the moderator, the NY1 anchor Dominic Carter, warned audience members at El Museo del Barrio in Manhattan that the police would eject them for interruptions.
 And the hourlong encounter generated moments of revelation big and small. The mayor emphatically promised not to seek a fourth term and said he believed that former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani would make a good governor. Mr. Thompson revealed that he supported a public option in a federal health care plan and believed that Roman Polanski should go to jail. He also said he had once had a professional manicure. 
 Neither candidate seemed to land a decisive punch that would alter the course of a lopsided campaign. Mr. Thompson repeatedly sought to rattle, if not provoke, the mayor, turning to address him, wagging his finger and calling him ''Mike.''
 Attacking the mayor's successful campaign to rewrite term limits last fall, Mr. Thompson said Mr. Bloomberg had failed to ''adhere to the rules.'' 
 Reminding Mr. Bloomberg that he had vowed not to overturn the limits, he said the mayor had undermined voters, who had approved them twice. 
 ''It is wrong,'' said Mr. Thompson, a Democrat. ''Mike Bloomberg lied to the people of New York City.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, who is running as a Republican and an independent, said he understood those concerns. But he said that his friends, and people he did not even know, had recruited him to run again. He warned that this election was too critical to turn only on that issue. ''On Nov. 3, we'll have a vote on what really matters, a vote between two candidates,'' the mayor said.
 While Mr. Thompson questioned whether the ''richest man in the city'' could be entrusted to lead the government, the mayor tried to show he was in touch with ordinary New Yorkers, saying he was hearing the pain of people ''in the subways, in the diners, on the streets.''
 Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged the anger over the weakened economy and skyrocketing taxes and fees, like a doubling of the city's water rate. ''I don't like them like anybody else,'' he said.
 But just as often, he seemed to challenge voters to take him or leave him. Asked about his record on education, he said that if voters thought Mr. Thompson did a better job as president of the Board of Education than he did as mayor, ''you should vote for him.''
 The mayor appeared at times a slightly annoyed paternal figure, unhappy to be subjected to the slights and sallies of the debate but determined to get through it. He came alive in his critique of Mr. Thompson's eight years at the comptroller's office, where he is the chief investment officer for the city's pension funds. 
 Mr. Bloomberg said that Mr. Thompson had accepted campaign contributions from money managers seeking business with the city even as the pension system had lagged behind its peers.
 ''My opponent has taken something like $650,000 from people who either manage money or have found money managers,'' the mayor said. ''In return for which the city has gotten worse performance out of the pension system. That is just not the way we should be running government.''
 Mr. Thompson tried to deflect the issue, by suggesting that the mayor had bought endorsements through generous gifts to charities and community groups that gave him political support.
 The mayor said that most of the recipients of his philanthropy did not know he was the donor. ''I'm very proud of the amount of moneys I've given away each year,'' he said.
 Mr. Bloomberg occasionally seemed to lecture his rival, and the audience, with wordy descriptions of the city' zoning process and its police procedures. But Mr. Thompson also strayed at times into bureaucratic jargon.
 Among the most dramatic moments of the debate was when he angrily turned to the mayor and accused him of using his millions to impugn Mr. Thompson's integrity in television ads.
 ''Mike, you know better than that,'' he said. ''You should be ashamed. You should stop now.''
 The two candidates seemed keenly aware of the setting. When the mayor was asked about the number of Latinos on his senior staff, he answered the question in awkward if passable Spanish, prompting derisive laughter in the debate hall. Then the moderator asked him to translate it into English.
 Outspent 16 to 1, Mr. Thompson and his aides viewed the debate as a rare opportunity to level the playing field with Mr. Bloomberg and introduce himself personally to New Yorkers, who still know little about him. 
 Yet he barely touched on his three decades in government, his public service-minded family, his Brooklyn roots or the experience that moved him to run for mayor: watching crowds of his Harlem neighbors wait in line for hours to vote for Barack Obama. 
 Mr. Thompson will have a second chance during a televised debate on Oct 27.
 Aides had sought to curb Mr. Thompson's habit of talking with his hands. But he used them anyway, sometimes to comic effect. Asked about the calorie count in a Big Mac, Mr. Thompson grabbed at his gut with playful regret, suggesting he was no stranger to the Golden Arches. And in discussing his manicure, he theatrically raised his fingers to his face for a closer inspection. 
 As the debate concluded, Mr. Carter asked each candidate to say something nice about the other. Both complied, momentarily, before reverting to attack mode.
 ''He is a great golfer,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. But he added, ''I just think he's not the right person to lead the city for the next four years.''
 Mr. Thompson offered that the mayor ''is well dressed'' but went on, ''At some point, after eight years, eight is enough and it's time for him to go.''
 The mayor became uncharacteristically animated, interjecting: ''Wait, wait. Eight isn't enough for better schools, eight isn't enough for lower crime.''
 Mr. Thompson shot back: ''Obviously eight is enough, when you violate the will of the people and overturn term limits.''
 At that point, the moderator put a stop to it: ''O.K. All right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. traded jabs over term limits and political contributions.(POOL PHOTO BY BRYAN SMITH)(pg. A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); APPROVALS (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



395 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Some States Forgo Signs On Stimulus

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The Great Depression had its red, white and blue ''U.S.A. Work Program'' signs and the ubiquitous ''We Do Our Part'' blue eagle emblems, which can still be seen in the credits of films of the era. This recession has green highway signs telling drivers when construction work was paid for by the stimulus program -- but not in Georgia, which just became the latest of at least half a dozen states to forgo the signs as a waste of money. 
 The signs, which proclaim ''Project Funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act'' over the red, white, blue and green logo of the stimulus, cost an average of $1,200 apiece in Georgia, said David Spear, the press secretary for the Georgia Department of Transportation. With the state putting up two signs at each project and 119 construction contracts awarded through September, the cost of the signs was adding up. The sign issue became a lightning rod for critics of the stimulus, and many of them complained to the department about their cost. 
 ''The more we reflected on it, the more we realized they were absolutely right: it's not the best use of the money,'' said Mr. Spear, who added that the decision would save tens of thousands of dollars that could be spent on more construction work.
 The use of signs for stimulus projects was strongly encouraged by the Federal Highway Administration but not required. 
 ''We think the signs promote transparency and accountability -- so taxpayers can know where their money is being spent and on what,'' said Jill Zuckman, the Department of Transportation's director for public affairs. ''But the important thing is that the projects be sound, well run and job creating.''
 The sign question has taken on partisan overtones. Some Republicans say the signs are essentially publicly financed advertisements for one of the Obama administration's signature programs. 
 ''These signs are simply for political self-interest, and it's high time we stop using stimulus dollars to fund them, and instead use these dollars for their intended purpose of creating economic activity,'' Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, a Republican who voted against the stimulus package, said in a statement last month. He tried -- and failed -- to prohibit the use of the signs. 
 At the local level, though, the issue seems to be more about red ink than red states. Georgia, which made the decision this month to stop buying the signs, is led by Gov. Sonny Perdue, a Republican. Texas, another largely Republican state, also banned the signs. But Virginia, which decided from the beginning not to use any of its stimulus money on signs, is led by Gov. Tim Kaine, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. 
 Florida, whose Republican governor, Charlie Crist, broke ranks with his party to support the stimulus, decided not to use the signs. And New York, a largely Democratic state, stopped requiring them this summer after it was embarrassed by reports that contractors were asking for more than $4,000 for the largest signs. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (71%); CONTRACT AWARDS (53%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: TIM KAINE (79%); SONNY PERDUE (56%); JUDD GREGG (53%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



396 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: CIT Group's Chief to Quit; Bankruptcy May Follow

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
The CIT Group, the troubled lender, said on Tuesday that its chief executive would resign at the end of the year, as the likelihood grew that the company would seek bankruptcy protection to lighten its onerous debt burden. 
 The departure of the executive, Jeffrey M. Peek, planned for Dec. 31, was not unexpected. Under Mr. Peek's leadership, CIT transformed from a sleepy lender to small- and midsize companies around the country to a big financial player with aspirations of greatness -- only to be laid low by the financial crisis last year.
 Mr. Peek has spent the last several months seeking to rescue the firm. Two weeks ago, CIT unveiled a restructuring plan, involving a huge debt exchange intended to reduce its $30 billion in unsecured bonds and pushing out its bond maturities. The firm received a $3 billion lifeline from major bondholders this summer, averting a ruinous unplanned bankruptcy filing then.
 At the same time, the company has been soliciting votes for a prepackaged bankruptcy, one meant to cut CIT's time in Chapter 11 protection to perhaps a month and a half. Because of investors' reluctance to sign onto the exchange offer, the bankruptcy option looks like the more likely path for the company, according to a person briefed on the restructuring plans.
 Mr. Peek, who informed CIT's board of his intended departure over the weekend, was not pressured to resign, according to people briefed on the matter. But it was clear that the company's bondholders, who will likely take control of the lender through either the debt exchange or a bankruptcy filing, would select their own management team. CIT's board is forming a search committee to find his replacement.
 ''CIT's recently launched restructuring plan is designed to enhance its capital levels, bolster liquidity and return the company to profitability,'' Mr. Peek said in a statement. ''Now is the appropriate time to focus on a transition of leadership, and I look forward to working closely with our board during that process.''
 The departure of Mr. Peek, a veteran Wall Street executive, is a low point for him. He came to CIT four years ago, after a long career at Merrill Lynch, where he lost the race to become the firm's chief executive, and then a stint at Credit Suisse.
 Upon his arrival at CIT, he moved the firm from a business park in Livingston, N.J., to a flashy Midtown Manhattan office tower, and the company soon began offering more investment advisory services -- and subprime mortgages and student loans.
 But the credit crisis dissipated CIT's main source of financing, raising debt in the short-term capital markets. The company became one of many to become a bank holding company late last year and received $2.3 billion in bailout money. Yet regulators turned aside requests for more aid, leaving Mr. Peek and the company to seek a privately financed bailout.
 Because of conditions imposed by the government's financial rescue package, Mr. Peek will not receive severance payments. However, he will receive about $4 million to $5 million in accrued pension benefits, a CIT spokesman said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey M. Peek will leave by year's end, the company said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

COMPANY: CIT GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

TICKER: CIT (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (90%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (90%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: JEFFREY M PEEK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



397 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Intel Profit Beats Forecast, Raising Tech Sector Hopes

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Intel, the world's largest semiconductor maker, offered further evidence on Tuesday that the global economy was indeed on the mend.
 The company reported a third-quarter profit that easily surpassed Wall Street's estimates, and its revenue was well ahead of the projection that Intel offered investors at the end of August. 
 The current quarter looks promising as well, Intel said, and the company lifted its revenue forecast to about $500 million above analysts' estimates. 
 Intel is a bellwether for trends in the technology industry and the economy as a whole. Its computer chips are the logic engines in most personal computers and in larger computers in data centers that power e-mail, electronic commerce and the Internet. So Intel's performance suggests that economic prospects are brightening, analysts said.
 ''Technology should benefit first and foremost in a global economic recovery,'' said Edward Yardeni, an independent economist and investment strategist.
 Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., reported third-quarter revenue of $9.4 billion, well ahead of the analysts' consensus of $9 billion, as compiled by Thomson Reuters. Still, Intel's sales remained 8 percent below last year.
 Yet Intel executives emphasized the unfolding trend. The third quarter's revenue was 17 percent higher than in the second quarter, the largest rate of improvement over those quarters in more than 30 years.
 Net income was nearly $1.9 billion, or 33 cents a share. The Wall Street estimate was 28 cents a share, and that was after analysts had steadily lifted their earnings forecasts in recent months. In July, the consensus estimate was 15 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters. In the year-earlier quarter, Intel reported earnings of $2 billion, or 35 cents a share. 
 Intel's recovery has been most robust in fast-growing, developing economies like China. But even the mature economies of the United States and Western Europe are showing signs of real improvement, with America slightly ahead of Europe, Stacy J. Smith, Intel's chief financial officer, said in an interview.
 The personal computer market is decisively recovering, although consumers, not companies, are doing most of the buying, Mr. Smith noted.
 The upbeat third-quarter report is the latest evidence of growing optimism at the big chip maker. In July, Intel reported that its second-quarter results were stronger than it had expected, even though sales were down 15 percent from the previous year. Yet the downward trend seemed to be broken, cheering both Wall Street and the technology industry.
 Then, at the end of August, Intel pointed to stronger demand for its microprocessors and chipsets and raised its revenue projection for the third quarter by $500 million, to about $9 billion.
 Investors anticipate that technology companies, led by Intel, will lead the way out of the recovery. Earnings estimates for all the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index are projected to be down 25 percent in the third quarter, compared with a year earlier, according to Thomson Reuters. But technology company profits are expected to be down only 14 percent. In July, analysts had expected technology sector profits to be off 20 percent in the third quarter.
 Intel, according to some analysts, may have enjoyed a bump in demand in the quarter as major PC makers ordered chips to build machines equipped with Microsoft's new operating system, Windows 7, which will be officially released Oct. 22.
 Typically, analysts say, PC makers like Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Acer accelerate chip orders somewhat later in the year as they prepare for the year-end holiday shopping season. ''The PC build cycle is probably earlier this year,'' said David Wu, a semiconductor analyst at GC Research.
 But with the market strengthening, Intel expects no let-up in the fourth quarter. It projected fourth-quarter revenue of $10.1 billion, plus or minus $400 million, which would be a 7.6 percent increase from the third quarter. That, Intel said, is in line with its typical seasonal increase in sales. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Otellini, the chief executive of Intel. The chip maker's upbeat outlook suggests improvements in the broader economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%)

PERSON: PAUL S OTELLINI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



398 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: E-Mail Shows Concerns Over Merrill Deal

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
It was Jan. 15, and the government was about to hand Bank of America its second taxpayer lifeline as the bank was drowning in losses from its recent marriage to Merrill Lynch.
 Kenneth D. Lewis, the chairman of Bank of America, and other top executives convened a late-afternoon conference call to explain the bank's latest problems to the board: Not only was the government making the new multibillion-dollar bailout on punishing financial terms, but Merrill's losses -- already thought to be steep -- were also far worse than the bleak estimates tallied just weeks earlier. 
 As Mr. Lewis and the other executives continued their briefing, one board member minced no words in his assessment of the situation. 
 ''Unfortunately it's screw the shareholders!!'' Charles K. Gifford wrote to a fellow director in an e-mail exchange that took place during the call.
 ''No trail,'' Thomas May, that director, reminded him, an apparent reference to the inadvisability of leaving an e-mail thread of their conversation.
 The e-mail messages, reviewed by The New York Times, were handed over to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform this week as Bank of America opened a collection of documents that it has kept secret about the ill-fated merger. While the e-mail does not show that the bank deliberately kept vital information on the deal from shareholders, it opens a window onto the concerns harbored by several board members over the Merrill deal.
 Shortly after Mr. May's remark about an e-mail trail, Mr. Gifford said his comments were made in ''the context of a horrible economy!!! Will effect everyone.'' 
 ''Good comeback,'' Mr. May replied. 
 A bank spokesman, Lawrence Di Rita, declined to comment on the e-mail. But he said ''we believe the full record in context demonstrates that we acted in good faith and with appropriate disclosure in the Merrill Lynch acquisition.''
 The bank, which resisted investigators' efforts to identify the executives who failed to disclose Merrill's losses to shareholders, is now planning to send more documents in the next week to Congress, as well as to the attorney general of New York and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are all investigating the Merrill merger. The documents could also provide fodder for shareholder lawsuits. 
 ''E-mails are often the best trails to what a person is really thinking,'' said Mark C. Zauderer, a corporate litigator in New York. ''That kind of spur-of-the-moment reaction provides grist for the mill of plaintiffs' lawyers where issues of honesty and integrity are at issue.'' 
 The deal, forged in the throes of the financial crisis last September, has come under political and regulatory scrutiny, and has prompted an uproar from shareholders who say they might never have approved it had executives disclosed the true extent of Merrill's ill health, or revealed the hefty bonuses Merrill paid its traders and bankers right before the deal closed. 
 Many are also angry that Mr. Lewis did not reveal how deeply his own concerns about the deal ran: several weeks after shareholders approved the merger, new assessments of Merrill's losses so startled Mr. Lewis that he told the government he was thinking of backing out. The government, wanting to avoid a fresh panic in financial markets, urged him to stick with it. And he kept those negotiations a secret. 
 The bank's board, however, was kept apprised of many developments in the merger, and the House oversight panel investigating the matter plans to question several of them, said Edolphus Towns, Democrat of New York and chairman of the committee. The documents his committee has seen include e-mail messages between bank directors regretting the deal within days of its announcement, according to a person familiar with the committee's documents. Also, some directors have already received subpoenas from the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo. 
 The January dialogue between Mr. Gifford and Mr. May capped months of conflict that simmered between some board members and the bank's management since the weekend of Sept. 13, when Mr. Lewis agreed to the deal. Mr. Gifford, who ran FleetBoston Financial before Mr. Lewis bought it in 2004 to enlarge Bank of America's reach, was the lone board member to argue against the merger, said a person who attended the bank's board meetings but was not authorized to discuss them.
 On that frenzied weekend, as Lehman Brothers came crashing to the ground, Mr. Gifford urged Mr. Lewis to wait a day or two to see if he could pick up Merrill for a lower price to obtain better value for Bank of America shareholders, this person said. Mr. Lewis argued that he could lose a golden opportunity to make the investment bank the crown jewel of his empire if he held off, and he agreed to pay about $50 billion in stock for Merrill.
 Merrill's hefty price tag quickly became sore point for shareholders. When Mr. Lewis and other executives considered backing out of the deal, they turned to federal regulators about a second bailout for the merged company.
 Mr. Gifford and Mr. May both live in the Boston area, and have been close for a long time. They were part of the handful of Boston-based directors that clashed with Mr. Lewis in early December over a star executive whom they backed. After learning that Mr. Lewis planned to fire the executive, Brian Moynihan, these directors pressured Mr. Lewis to find him a new job. Mr. Moynihan is now a leading internal candidate to succeed Mr. Lewis, who announced early retirement this month. Mr. Gifford and Mr. May are on the selection committee. 
 In the January board call that prompted the Boston directors' e-mail messages, directors learned that the government was charging the bank a lot more for the second bailout than the directors expected. The directors also learned they would have to cut the bank's common stock dividend to a penny, from 32 cents -- something that particularly upset Mr. Gifford because he held half of his own financial assets in company stock and, with other shareholders, had watched the value of that investment decline.
 Michael Useem, a corporate governance professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, said the e-mail messages raised as many questions as answers. 
 Without a transcript of the call, he said, it is difficult to determine if Mr. Gifford's remarks reference the actions of Mr. Lewis, the government, or other parties. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kenneth D. Lewis, left, and Charles K. Gifford in 2003.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS)(pg. B1)
John Thain, left, then the head of Merrill Lynch, and Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive, at a news conference in New York around the time of their merger deal in 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEBETO MATTHEWS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Thomas May expressed concern about an e-mail trail.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NSTAR, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); MERGERS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); LITIGATION (64%); LAWYERS (61%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (90%); JOHN THAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



399 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Rally Draws Thousands

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Thousands of immigrants came to Capitol Hill on Tuesday for a day of lobbying and an afternoon rally calling for comprehensive immigration reform.
 The event was timed to the unveiling of an immigration bill by Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois and chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
 With President Obama's stated commitment to immigration reform, advocates for immigrants said they hoped to revive a debate that has been overshadowed by other priorities, like the economy and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. As deportations continue to rise, immigration reform is needed now, they said, to allow illegal immigrants to obtain legal status and to stop families from being torn apart. 
 ''We need a bill that says if you come here to hurt our communities, we will not support you; but if you are here to work hard and to make a better life for your family, you will have the opportunity to earn your citizenship,'' Mr. Gutierrez said in a prepared statement. ''We need a law that says it is un-American for a mother to be torn from her child, and it is unacceptable to undermine our work force by driving the most vulnerable among us further into the shadows.''
 Immigration overhaul faces a difficult road. President George W. Bush twice failed to get Congress to pass similar legislation. Mr. Obama recently said his administration would pursue reform this year but expected no action on legislation before 2010.
 Tuesday's event was sponsored by various immigrant advocacy groups, including the Reform Immigration for America campaign, the National Capital Immigration Coalition and Families United/Familias Unidas. It attracted convoys of buses, vans and cars carrying more than 3,000 demonstrators from at least 17 states.
 Immigrants, religious leaders, members of Congress and immigrant advocates planned to gather on the West Lawn for speeches and a prayer vigil at 3 p.m. Similar rallies were being held in at least 20 cities around the nation, including Los Angeles, Milwaukee, Denver and Albany.
 ''I'm here representing the undocumented workers who cleaned ground zero and its surrounding area after the 9/11 terrorist attacks,'' said Rubiela Arias, 43, an illegal immigrant from Colombia who came to Washington with an immigrant advocacy group called Make the Road New York.
 Ms. Arias described how she came from Medellin to New York in 1998 with her 5-year-old son, seeking a safer place for her family. 
 ''I worked for eight months cleaning the dust and debris surrounding the World Trade Center,'' said Ms. Arias, who cleans offices in Manhattan and was dressed in a light-blue T-shirt with a sticker reading, ''Reform Immigration for America.'' ''There was no question about immigration status. We were all New Yorkers; we were all Americans.''
 In June, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, announced what he called seven principles that would give form to his own reform proposal. Among them were the need to ''curtail future illegal immigration,'' to have ''operational control of our borders'' and a ''biometric-based employer verification system.'' Mr. Schumer, who has been working with Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said he would introduce a bill by Labor Day but missed that deadline.
 Mr. Gutierrez's bill, which is likely to propose less restrictive terms than Mr. Schumer's plan for allowing illegal immigrants to become citizens, is partly meant to pressure his Congressional colleagues. 
 A main purpose of the rally was to highlight the way current immigration law splits families.
 ''Families deserve better than this from our government,'' said Peter Derezinski, a 17-year-old high school senior and a United States citizen whose father was deported to Poland in April 2008 after 18 years as a truck driver and an air-conditioning repairman in Chicago. ''We need to fix our broken immigration system so our parents who have contributed to this nation's economy in a positive way have a chance of reuniting with their children.''
 Robin Ferschke, who was traveling from Maryville, Tenn., said she planned to talk to lawmakers about changing the law so that her daughter-in-law and grandson could live legally in the United States. Ms. Ferschke's son, Sgt. Michael Ferschke, a 22-year-old Marine radio operator, was killed in Iraq in 2008, leaving his Japanese widow and their infant son in immigration limbo. 
 While Sergeant Ferschke was deployed to Iraq, he learned that his girlfriend was pregnant. They decided to get married by proxy, a method that has a long history in the military when the bride and groom cannot be in the same place for a ceremony. The boy was born in Japan and holds dual citizenship. 
 But under a 1950s legal standard meant to curb marriage fraud, the wedding is not recognized for immigration purposes even though the military recognizes the union.
 ''The laws we have now are inhumane and need to be changed,'' Ms. Ferschke said. ''So I came to beg lawmakers to change that and not force my daughter-in-law and my grandson to leave the country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); DEPORTATION (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); RELIGION (62%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

PERSON: LUIS V GUTIERREZ (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



400 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Without Cars, a Different Sort of 42nd St.

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
With parts of Times Square converted into a pedestrian mall, at least temporarily, some people say they believe the city should take an even more radical step: close 42nd Street to car traffic and build a light rail system to run the width of Manhattan.
 The main proponent of this far-reaching proposal is an organization called Vision 42, a citizens' group with dozens of supporters. It was formed in 1999 by the Institute for Rational Urban Mobility, a nonprofit corporation that finances its initiative with grants from the New York Community Trust/Community Funds Inc. and the John Todd McDowell Environmental Fund. 
 Vision 42 would like to turn the full length of 42nd Street into a pedestrian mall, while adding a light rail line that would connect the 39th Street ferry terminal on the Hudson River, near the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on the West Side Highway, with the 36th Street ferry terminal on the East River, near the undeveloped Con Edison sites on the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive.
 The light rail system, which would cost an estimated $500 million, would run from terminal to terminal in about 20 minutes, half the time that the current bus system takes, said George Haikalis, an engineer who serves as a co-chairman of Vision 42. He is one of three board members of the Institute for Rational Mobility. Through October, Clear Channel/Spectracolor is running a free public service announcement for Vision 42 on its Times Square billboard at 1567 Broadway between 46th and 47th Streets.
 ''The real gain here is you could handle three times as many people with roughly the same cost,'' Mr. Haikalis said. ''A lot of people have expressed interest in this, but have not signed on, because they're awaiting interest from Mayor Bloomberg.''
 While three large owners of real estate on 42nd Street and a real estate company that manages office buildings there have signed on to support the proposal, advocates for Vision 42 said they had not been able to engage the city in a discussion.
 ''We think the mayor considers this competitive with his No. 7 subway line extension,'' said Roxanne Warren, an architect who is co-chairwoman of Vision 42.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office said it was not inclined to support the proposal and deferred to the city's Department of Transportation for comment. Scott Gastel, a spokesman for the department, said in an e-mail message, ''While there are no plans for a project like this at this time, we are working closely with the M.T.A./N.Y.C. Transit to extend the 7 line, which will greatly improve commuter access throughout the corridor.'' 
 The extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to 34th Street and 11th Avenue would connect Times Square to the Javits Convention Center and the Hudson Yards area, which has been rezoned for development. That development, through taxes and financing mechanisms, will largely support the cost of the subway project, which as far back as 2005 was projected to cost $2.1 billion.
 Advocates of light rail, which would stop at every intersection along 42nd Street, said that there was still a need for better surface transportation, since the No. 7 line has no stops east of Grand Central Terminal at Lexington Avenue. 
 Douglas Durst, the chairman of the Durst Organization, which owns five office buildings on 42nd Street, including One Bryant Park and 4 Times Square, said it made sense to build light rail, which is faster and creates less pollution than buses.
 ''Real estate people should take a look at what's happened with real estate values in other cities where there are these walking streets,'' said Mr. Durst, who visits pedestrian-friendly Copenhagen frequently, as his wife is Danish. ''They've increased tremendously.''
 Vision 42 advocates said light rail lines in Dallas had stimulated more than $1 billion worth of development. In Portland, Ore., light rail has catalyzed about $1.2 billion worth of development. In Jersey City, about 33.3 million square feet of development is under way, Mr. Haikalis said.
 An economic study commissioned by Vision 42 with grant money and done by the consulting firm Urbanomics of New York, projected that about 398 office properties along 42nd Street would have an average increase in lot value of $188 a square foot because of the time saved with a light rail line, a combined increase in value of 4 percent. Jeffrey Gural, the chairman of Newmark Knight Frank, a real estate company that manages office buildings along 42nd Street, said it would make sense to connect the Javits Center to the United Nations, which currently has no subway stop.
 ''I think light rail would be a great tourist attraction, and I've never understood why it never got any support by the local government,'' Mr. Gural said.
 In fact, a proposal to put a trolley line along the south side of 42nd Street, keeping the north side open to car traffic, has been around for decades. The City Council voted to support the idea in 1994, but Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani let the proposal languish, and it lost steam, Vision 42 advocates said.
 Tim Tompkins, the president of the Times Square Alliance, a group that represents local businesses, said that while some board members had signed on as supporters of Vision 42, the alliance as a group had not taken a stance. ''There's two ways to do light rail: one is where you completely close the street, and one is partial,'' he said. ''If we were ever to take a position, we would want to look at both those options and understand the pros and cons.''
 According to Urbanomics' study, completely closing 42nd Street to cars and adding light rail would increase the pedestrian volume by about 35 percent, producing a proportional annual increase in sales of about $380 million for the street's 126 retail outlets, Mr. Haikalis said.
 Jeffrey Katz, the chief executive of Sherwood Equities, which owns One Times Square as well as the building housing the Renaissance Hotel in Times Square, said he supported the light rail concept, but he would like to see further study of the effect of closing 42nd Street to car traffic.
 ''I'm skeptical about it,'' Mr. Katz said. ''We've just tried to close down a major artery in Times Square, on the Broadway mall, and the jury hasn't come back on that yet.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rendering shows 42nd Street as an auto-free zone that would include a $500 million rail line running the width of Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATHIEU DELOME) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (75%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (51%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (55%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

 
