

1 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
A federal judge ruled yesterday that the pharmaceutical industry could continue to use computerized data showing which doctors are prescribing what drugs. 
 Judge Paul Barbadoro of United States District Court struck down a New Hampshire law that prohibited the purchase and resale of the data for use by the drug makers.
Judge Barbadoro, ruling in Concord, N.H., said that the law violated the First Amendment by restricting commercial speech. 
 ''Ordinarily, states should be given wide latitude to choose among rational alternatives when they act to benefit the public interest,'' Judge Barbadoro wrote in his 54-page ruling. ''However, when states adopt speech restrictions as their method, courts must subject their efforts to closer scrutiny.''
 The ruling was a victory for IMS Health, the leading purveyor of pharmaceutical prescribing data, as well as a competitor, Verispan. Both companies sued last year to have the New Hampshire law stricken, arguing that prohibitions on the sale of the information violated their constitutional rights.
 The decision could have implications in other states considering similar legislation. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, several states were considering such proposals this year. The legislation had been urged by doctors who objected to the sharing of their prescribing patterns. 
 The New Hampshire law, which was enacted last year and took effect in July, was the first state law to specifically prohibit the sale or transfer of information identifying doctors for commercial purposes. 
 Representative Cindy Rosenwald, the New Hampshire legislator who sponsored the law, expressed disappointment yesterday in the ruling, which issued a permanent injunction against enforcement of the law. 
 ''I feel that corporate interests took precedent over the needs of people in New Hampshire,'' she said. ''I think it's like having a drug rep peering over a doctor's shoulder when he is writing a prescription.'' But she added that the issue had gained momentum. ''I don't think this issue is going to go away.'' 
 An assistant attorney general in New Hampshire, Richard Head, said the state was deciding whether to appeal the decision. ''We are going to review the court's decision and consider various alternatives,'' he said.
 An IMS vice president, Randolph B. Frankel, applauded the ruling last night, saying it ''points to the fact that states have a variety of alternatives to manage quality and cost without impacting free speech.'' 
 ''And I believe,'' Mr. Frankel said, ''that other states will look to this decision as a basis for framing where they go in terms of their own legislative activities.''
 The sale of prescription data, in which patient identification is omitted, has become a lucrative industry. The data is purchased from pharmacy chains and the companies that manage drug benefits for employers, and it shows precisely how many prescriptions individual doctors have written for specific drugs. 
 Companies like IMS and Verispan sell the data to pharmaceutical companies, which use it to tailor their marketing plans to specific doctors. Sales representatives who visit doctors' offices carry laptop computers with detailed reports on each doctor. 
 The American College of Physicians has asked that the American Medical Association prohibit the release or sale of doctors' prescribing information. Last year, the A.M.A. established a registry of doctors who could ''opt out'' of having their prescription data shared with representatives. That was part of a voluntary arrangement the A.M.A. reached with the data companies. 
 About 7,000 of the 850,000 doctors in the United States have opted out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (76%); PHARMACIES (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Medicine and Health; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Law and Legislation; Computers and the Internet; Doctors; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Freedom of Speech and Expression; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (55%) Verispan; Ims Health

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: Stephanie Saul; Paul (Judge) Barbadoro

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (92%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



2 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Amid Bare Breasts and Love Stories, Audience Participation

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
A warning: breasts will be bared in ''Exposed: Experiments in Love, Sex, Death and Art,'' a new show at Collective: Unconscious in TriBeCa. Since Annie Sprinkle, the pornography star turned performance artist, is a key participant in the proceedings, this is not entirely surprising. But amateur exhibitionists, too, are given a chance to display their wares in one of the evening's interactive moments, when Ms. Sprinkle and Elizabeth Stephens, her partner in three of the four titular experiences, swarm the audience with digital cameras early on, looking for volunteers to join the party.
 After a few moments of fraught silence, and at the encouraging of the jolly Ms. Sprinkle and the earnest Ms. Stephens, up came the shirts and on went the show. The conceit behind this loosely assembled evening of musings on creation, procreation and threats to same is that audience and performers are together in the ''love art laboratory.'' The world being grim these days, Ms. Sprinkle and Ms. Stephens don traditional white coats to play research scientists of sorts, determined to fill the world with a little more love, with the help of public recruits. 
If audience participation ranks somewhere near root canals on your list of favorite things, fear not. These interludes are brief and mild, and include a raffle. For the most part, Ms. Sprinkle and Ms. Stephens concentrate on giving us a guided tour of their own history together. The evening is a scrapbook of memories about their lives as partners, both personal and professional.
 These are deeply intertwined, it becomes clear, as Ms. Sprinkle and Ms. Stephens describe their evolving relationship in monologues amusingly if confusingly delivered simultaneously. The fabulously buxom Ms. Sprinkle is a naturally adorable raconteur, sort of like a naughty Dolly Parton, but dressed incongruously as an opera diva of the old school, in glam floor-length dresses with matching jackets. Ms. Stephens sports a buzz cut, mannish pants and a glittery top, and has the friendly, slightly ingratiating aspect of a Las Vegas M.C. 
 Once friends and occasional collaborators on the East Coast, they reunited several years later in San Francisco. Hot sex and true love soon blossomed. When the gay-marriage movement began to percolate, Ms. Sprinkle and Ms. Stephens decided to hop aboard, despite ambivalence about the institution from a feminist, economic and political perspective. (Audience input is sought as the show stops for an instant forum on this contentious issue.) 
 While they were late for the San Francisco gay-marriage free-for-all of a few years back (a party-pooping injunction stilled the festivities), they decided to incorporate nontraditional wedding ceremonies into their recurring artistic collaboration. 
 ''Exposed'' is part of a project spanning seven years. Each year kicks off with a wedding ceremony color-coded to match one of the hues of the body's ''chakras,'' the meaning of which remains vague to me despite the brief lecture helpfully provided. In any case, a slide show from their ceremonies dating back to 2004 suggests that Ms. Sprinkle and Ms. Stephens will have no need to hire a wedding consultant to think up innovations as their project continues. Possibly Martha Stewart's cadre of nuptial experts could take a few tips from them.
 ''Exposed'' is not all happy memories and risque game-playing, however. A comic interlude explores their fruitless attempts to have a child. Another slide show reveals in gory detail Ms. Sprinkle's bout with breast cancer, now fortunately in the past. The terror of this experience was a little alleviated by their determination to treat chemotherapy sessions as a continuing madcap fashion show. (Touchingly, Ms. Stephens shaved her own head in solidarity as Ms. Sprinkle's auburn tresses fell victim to the treatments.)
 Cynics on the subject of performance art may wonder whether simply doing lots of kooky things and taking pictures of them necessarily qualifies as art-making, but Ms. Sprinkle and Ms. Stephens are convincing proselytizers for the healthy idea that life is more enjoyable -- and its horrors are less overwhelming -- if you can treat all its twists and turns as fodder for aesthetic inspiration. Exposed Experiments in Love, Sex, Death and Art Created and performed by Elizabeth Stephens and Annie Sprinkle; directed by Neon Weiss; media design and sound by Sheila Malone; lab assistants, Scout Durwood, Morty Diamond and Zhenesse Heinemann; costumes by Piedmont Boutique; production manager, Aaron Lemon Strauss. Presented by Collective: Unconscious, Caterina Bartha, producer; R. Justin Hunt, general manager/associate producer. At the Collective: Unconscious, 279 Church Street, at White Street, TriBeCa; (212) 352-3101. Through May 12. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Stephens, left, and Annie Sprinkle in ''Exposed: Experiments in Love, Sex, Death and Art'' at Collective: Unconscious in TriBeCa. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (85%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (78%); THEATER (77%); OPERA (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); MARRIAGE (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (55%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) Theater; Reviews

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Elizabeth Stephens; Annie Sprinkle

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



3 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Fireproofing of Most Overpasses And Bridges Is Costly and Rare

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 30 

 BODY:
They are built in most cases to withstand ferocious winds and, here in California, the heaving of earthquakes. But most major highway bridges and overpasses are not fireproof and probably never will be.
 That is because fierce fires like the one that warped steel and collapsed part of a San Francisco Bay Area bridge connector Sunday are considered anomalies in the structural engineering world. While car and truck fires occur regularly, they most often damage the pavement on bridges, not the network of steel supporting them.
Although many recently built connectors and overpasses have much of their steel encased in concrete to protect them from the elements, it is not unusual for some of the steel, particularly in support beams underneath, to be exposed. And concrete, while affording some insulation, can crack and break up when exposed to extreme fire, too. 
 ''Even if it were a concrete bridge it would have had similar damage, but maybe not as dramatic,'' said Frieder Seible, dean of the engineering school at the University of California, San Diego, and chairman of the State Department of Transportation's seismic advisory board. 
 The 170-foot section of an overpass that failed in Oakland, Calif., on Sunday endured tremendous heat from a burning gasoline tanker truck that had crashed and exploded. The driver of the truck suffered moderate burns, but no one else was injured.
 ''It is not like there is a bridge design that would withstand this kind of thermal load,'' Dr. Seible said, calling the Oakland overpass ''a very common and economical type'' of design.
 Applying fire-resistant materials to bridges and overpasses, engineers said, would substantially drive up costs for a rare event.
 ''The probability of these things happening are pretty low,'' said Andrew W. Herrmann, a consulting bridge engineer in New York City. ''The cost to protect every overpass would be outrageous.''
 The section of bridge that collapsed in the fire on Sunday was built in the 1950s. It landed on another overpass, built in the 1990s as part of the restoration of a freeway heavily damaged in an earthquake in 1989.
 Such intense fires have occurred from time to time. A section of Interstate 95 in Bridgeport, Conn., buckled in 2004 after a truck carrying heating oil caught fire and damaged steel supports. 
 A trash fire under Interstate 78 in Newark in August 1989 twisted the steel and buckled the roadway.
 But many engineers, trained to consider the improbable, did not imagine a fire causing such extensive damage. In California, concerns most often focus on earthquakes, which in recent years have heavily damaged freeways and overpasses. Most of the bridges and overpasses have been retrofitted to prevent heavy quake damage, officials said.
 ''We worry about the seismic things in California,'' said Loring A. Wyllie Jr., a San Francisco engineer and member of the International Association for Bridge and Structural Engineers who had frequently driven over the collapsed connector. ''I never thought about a fire doing that.''
 Engineers face several challenges in repairing the overpass.
 The cost of steel has been rising because of a boom in high-rise construction, causing some shortages. Engineers not involved in the repair said it appeared that at least some of the girders would need to be custom-made, further driving up costs.
 Will Kempton, director of the California Department of Transportation, said officials had not yet estimated the cost of the work or a timetable for completion. Engineers, he said, are still assessing the damage.
 Dr. Seible said that with a speedy contractor the work could probably be done in months, but keeping motorists happy will be difficult.
 ''This can be done quickly,'' he said. ''But the traffic in the Bay Area does not stop because of it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (93%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); FIRES (77%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (76%); BULK SHIPPING (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); BURN INJURIES (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); HEATING OIL (63%) Bridges and Tunnels; San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge; Commuting; Transit Systems; Fires and Firefighters; Trucks and Trucking; Bridges and Tunnels

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) California; San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Oakland (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



4 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Food Imports Often Escape Scrutiny

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
Early in the 20th century, the safeguarding of food at American ports often amounted to inspectors from the Food and Drug Administration prying open containers of molasses or sugar and examining them for mold or insect parts.
 The F.D.A. has come a way since then. But not much more.
Last year, inspectors sampled just 20,662 shipments out of more than 8.9 million that arrived at American ports. China, which in one decade has become the third-largest exporter of food, by value, to the United States, sent 199,000 shipments, of which less than 2 percent were sampled, former officials with the agency said.
 Now, as F.D.A. inspectors travel to China to investigate the source of contaminated pet food that has killed at least 16 dogs and cats and sickened thousands of others, critics in Washington are warning that the agency is woefully understaffed and underfinanced to keep America's food supply safe. 
 ''The public thinks the food supply is much more protected than it is,'' said William Hubbard, a former associate commissioner who left in 2005 after 27 years at the agency. ''If people really knew how weak the F.D.A. program is, they would be shocked.''
 Globalization and new manufacturing capabilities have changed the makeup of the food that Americans put on their table. Food processors in the United States are buying a greater number of ingredients from other countries, becoming more of an assembler in the nation's food supply chain.
 ''With globalization, American food processors are turning to less-developed countries to get food ingredients because they can get them so much more cheaply,'' Mr. Hubbard said.
 To be sure, the F.D.A. has a number of procedures aimed at identifying problems with imported foods. Last year, the agency visually inspected over 115,000 shipments in addition to sending samples of over 20,000 shipments to a laboratory for analysis. 
 Still, the number of food inspections has lagged even as the number of food imports has shot up in recent years. Shipments more than doubled to an estimated 9.1 million this year from 2000, and are more than four times what they were in 1996. They have also doubled in value to $79.9 billion since 1996, according to the United States International Trade Commission.
 Congress is scheduled to tackle the agency's financing issues and food-safety concerns as part of a broader hearing today of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
 The F.D.A. employs only about 1,750 food inspectors at ports and domestic food-production plants. There are so few inspectors that most domestic plants get a visit from an F.D.A. inspector only once every five to 10 years, Mr. Hubbard said. Unlike meat-processing plants overseen by the Agriculture Department, foreign food-production plants are not regularly monitored by the F.D.A.
 Tommy G. Thompson, the former secretary of health and human services, expressed deep concern about the nation's food supply when he resigned, for unrelated reasons, in December 2004.
 ''For the life of me I cannot understand why the terrorists have not attacked our food supply because it is so easy to do,'' said Mr. Thompson, who is a member of the Coalition for a Stronger F.D.A., a lobby group in Washington, and is running for president. He said he worried ''every single night'' about threats to the food supply.
 Mr. Thompson's concern stems from a growing gap between a flood of imports and a weakened food inspection regime. The F.D.A., which is responsible for monitoring 80 percent of the country's food, inspects barely 1 percent of the food shipments arriving annually at hundreds of ports throughout the country, according to government statistics. 
 After Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Thompson persuaded Congress to add 600 more inspectors, increasing the total F.D.A. field staff for food, drugs and medical devices, to about 4,000. But since then, the agency's budget has not kept pace with inflation and the staff has decreased to 3,488 -- fewer than the 3,500 in 2002.
 Three spokesmen at the F.D.A. did not respond to phone calls and e-mail seeking responses to questions about the agency's staffing and inspections.
 The latest episode of food contamination has alarmed many lawmakers in Washington. Senator Richard J. Durbin, a Democrat from Illinois, sent a letter last Thursday to the Agriculture Appropriations Committee warning that ''F.D.A.'s resources have not kept pace with its responsibilities, and increasing quantities of imported food products will continue to stress F.D.A.'s capabilities.'' Mr. Durbin requested $650 million in next year's Agricultural appropriations bill for the food safety inspection program.
 Mr. Durbin noted that while the F.D.A's budget increased over the past two decades by three-and-a-half times, to $1.5 billion from $416.7 million, the budget for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention increased by more than 12 times and the National Institutes of Health rose about five times.
 More than 130 countries ship food items to the United States. Canada, Mexico and China have led the way, with China shipping nearly five times as much in food items to the United States as it did in 1996, international trade commission figures show. Beverages, fish, nuts and fresh fruits and vegetables are among the categories showing the biggest growth. 
 There have also been increases in categories like residues and waste from food industries; prepared animal feed; and ''gums, resins and other vegetable saps and extracts,'' the trade commission said. ''Emulsifiers'' or ''stabilizers'' found in chewing gums and candies, for example, come from sub-Saharan Africa and Pakistan, Mr. Hubbard, the former F.D.A. official, said. 
 Imports of milling industry products like wheat gluten, while still small, have more than doubled in value since 1996. Food processors use glutens to raise protein content and thicken everything from candy bars to pet food.
 ''In the same meal these days we may be eating food from several regions of the world,'' said Caroline Smith DeWaal, the director of food safety for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a Washington lobbying group. ''These food processors may be looking for a cheap new source, but they may pay for it down the line.''
 Companies like Menu Foods that have discovered melamine, the product suspected of causing the pet deaths, have been forced to recall several kinds of pet foods. In contrast to the F.D.A., the Agriculture Department, which oversees meat and poultry and monitors about 20 percent of the food supply, has about 9,000 food inspectors, more than five times that of the F.D.A. With more clout, it can require a foreign country to duplicate American slaughterhouse practices and send inspectors to certify foreign plants.
 Today the risks can be chemical, pesticide-related or bacterial in nature -- none of which can be found by simply looking at the food, Mr. Hubbard said.
 Large food sellers like Wal-Mart and grocery store chains have forced importers to sign contracts guaranteeing that their food is not contaminated. Large food processors like Cargill have put in place quality assurance programs in foreign-operated plants.
 ''The large companies have already developed quality assurance systems that go across national boundaries,'' Ms. Smith DeWaal said. ''But we need those kinds of systems that are designed for medium and small companies that want to trade, and ensure that they are being enforced and audited in the countries where they are originating.'' 
 Otherwise, with the food-safety inspection system clearly overwhelmed, other countries will increasingly look at the United States as a dumping ground for substandard food shipments, Mr. Hubbard said.
 ''The word is out,'' he said. ''If you send a problem shipment to the United States it is going to get in and you won't get caught, and you won't have your food returned to you, let alone get arrested or imprisoned.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about the inspection of imported foods by the Food and Drug Administration referred imprecisely to the Senate panel on agriculture appropriations that received a letter from Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, warning that the F.D.A.'s resources were overtaxed. It is a subcommittee, not a standing committee.

GRAPHIC: Graphs track the following since 2000: Food import shipments Food import inspections (Samples analyzed in a laboratory as a percentage of import shipments.) (Source by Food and Drug Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEAT INSPECTION (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INSPECTION (89%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); FOOD MFG (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (87%); DEREGULATION (84%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (79%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); PET FOODS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (72%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); CATS (69%); DOGS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (65%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (65%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; International Trade and World Market; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Food Contamination and Poisoning

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: William Hubbard; Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



5 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Business Class to London: Cheaper Than You Might Think

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
HOW about some good news for a change? Business-class fares on trans-Atlantic routes are coming down. Major airlines are improving their international routes and reducing capacity on domestic routes as lower-fare competition becomes more aggressive. 
 Two low-fare start-ups -- MaxJet and Silverjet -- say they are creating a bigger pool of business-class passengers who are willing (or able, under corporate policies) to pay a little more for a lot more comfort. Meanwhile, the third low-fare all-business-class start-up, Eos, says it has settled comfortably into a new discount-fare niche in the top quality business-class market across the Atlantic. 
 The New York to London route, the most lucrative in the industry for premium-class travel, is in flux. It's still possible to pay a fortune for a walk-up business class seat, of course. Yesterday, I checked walk-up fares on two international airlines that have what are considered to be top business-class service, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic. They were just over $10,000. 
 ''They're offering a superb product, but that is really an incredibly large amount of money,'' said Joshua Marks, the vice president for planning at MaxJet, which purports to be generating a good part of its market from business passengers who used to fly coach or premium coach.
 United States airlines used to closely match walk-up fares on competitors like British Airways, but not anymore. The walk-up New York to London round-trip fare on American Airlines yesterday was $7,723. And if booked yesterday for a flight in three weeks, business-class fares on major United States airlines dropped to the $3,500 level, while British Air was charging about $7,000.
 Airlines make most of their money on trans-Atlantic routes in first and business class. Coach is usually a drain on profits, which is why an all-business-class airline with an enticing fare structure can compete, even without the sort of scheduling frequency that major airlines offer.
 ''We're not subsidizing cheapskates like me, who used to travel only in economy,'' said Lawrence Hunt, the chief executive officer and a founder of Silverjet, a British-based airline that has been flying New York to London (actually Newark to London) for just over two months.
 Silverjet flies a 767 with 100 all business-class seats. The average fare New York to London is ''slightly over $2,000,'' Mr. Hunt said. 
 On major carriers, the average fare on that route is around $5,500, which takes into account volume discounts negotiated by major customers. A major American investment bank, considered one of the highest-volume customers, pays around $3,000 round trip on American Airlines, Mr. Hunt says. Typical high-volume corporate discount rates are about $6,000, but small-business travelers and entrepreneurs who don't book well in advance often end up paying the walk-up fare.
 On Silverjet, the walk-up fare can go as high as $4,000 in peak-demand periods. But, Mr. Hunt said, ''on some days you'll be paying $1,700 round trip.''
 Silverjet recently bought a second 767 aircraft. ''I took the keys on Thursday,'' Mr. Hunt said. It will be used for a second New York to London flight starting in July. The company expects to take delivery of a third aircraft in November and use it either for New York to London service, or to provide London service from another United States city, such as Los Angeles, Chicago or Miami. 
 Silverjet says it had a load factor -- the percentage of seats full -- of 59 percent in March. ''That's almost unprecedented for a carrier in its second month of operation,'' Mr. Hunt said.
 MaxJet flies between New York and London and Las Vegas and London and is about to resume its flights between Washington and London, which were suspended for the winter. 
 Average fares are about $2,000, Mr. Marks said. MaxJet says its business-class service is comparable to that on United States airlines. ''We're not trying to compete with the best of the best,'' Mr. Marks said. ''But we are showing that with a good product, people will pay more to get out of economy class.''
 Eos, on the other hand, competes with the luxury service on top-level business and first-class airlines like British Airways and Virgin Atlantic on the trans-Atlantic route. 
 Eos flies 757s, which typically carry more than 200 passengers, outfitted with just 48 lie-flat seats. Its new schedule between New York and London offers three flights on most days, for a total of 32 flights a week.
 If you wanted to fly Eos today and booked yesterday, the walk-up fare would have been $7,500 -- still lower than most airlines. Booked weeks in advance, the fare is $3,200 and less.
 Meanwhile, Eos also just introduced a new advertising campaign with a keyword that we'll seldom hear applied ever again to air travel: ''Uncrowded.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); SILVERJET PLC (58%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Maxjet Airways; Silverjet (Airline); Eos Airlines

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; London (Eng)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



6 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1945 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Look to Vaccines in the War on E. Coli

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Shousun C. Szu, a scientist at the National Institutes of Health, says the best way to prevent people from being poisoned by deadly E. coli would be to vaccinate all infants against the bacteria. 
 Graeme McRae, a Canadian biotechnology executive, says it would be more practical to inoculate cows instead.
Vaccines for people and for cattle are just two approaches under development to prevent or treat food poisoning by the strain E. coli O157:H7. 
 Right now, scientists can do little medically to fight the pathogen, which was responsible for two severe outbreaks last fall, one from contaminated bagged spinach and a second from tainted lettuce served in chain taco restaurants. 
 The main approach has been to try to prevent contamination through careful handling, rigorous inspections and government regulation. 
 Slaughterhouses have already sharply reduced contamination through practices like washing carcasses with hot water, steam or acids. Now the focus is on new procedures and regulations for the fresh-produce industry. 
 Some researchers say medical approaches could eventually supplement food-processing measures. To pave the way, an advisory committee of the Food and Drug Administration met on April 12 to discuss how to run clinical trials of drugs to treat E. coli infections. 
 On the animal side, a vaccine for cattle developed by Mr. McRae's company, Bioniche Life Sciences, was approved in December for distribution to veterinarians in Canada. Studies have shown that the vaccine can reduce but not eliminate the E. coli shed into manure. 
 Not only does that make the cows cleaner as they go into the slaughterhouse, but it could also conceivably reduce the risk that the germ will spread from a feedlot to a nearby produce field though water or wild animals. Cows and their manure are considered the major sources of the pathogen. 
 ''If we can reduce the likelihood that animals are going to carry the bacteria, then we might reduce over time what they put out into the environment,'' said Guy Loneragan, a veterinary epidemiologist at West Texas A&M University, who has received financing from the beef industry. 
 Other methods being tested include cattle antibiotics, an industrial chemical, bacterial-killing viruses and friendly bacteria to displace the evil ones. 
 One big potential barrier is that ranchers and feedlots may have little incentive to pay for such treatments, because they do not make the cows grow faster. Nor do they keep the cows healthy, because O157 does not sicken the cows that harbor it. 
 ''The cattle industry is within pennies of making a profit or not,'' said Carolyn Hovde Bohach, a professor of microbiology at the University of Idaho who is working on a different E. coli vaccine for cattle. ''Would it be their responsibility to protect vegetables?'' 
 Efforts to develop drugs and vaccines for people also face barriers. Because outbreaks are rare and sporadic, for instance, it would be difficult to test such treatments in clinical trials.
 It might be hard to diagnose the infection in time to intervene medically. 
 And any treatment would have to be very safe, because it would be given to children and because most people improve without any intervention. 
 E. coli O157:H7 causes 75,000 cases of infection and 61 deaths in the United States each year, according to a 1999 estimate by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention posted on its Web site. The actual number of confirmed cases has dropped since then, particularly in 2003 and 2004, but increased in 2005 and 2006, in part because of the outbreaks tied to spinach and lettuce. 
 As few as 10 bacteria can make someone ill. The bacteria release one or two potent toxins that cause bloody diarrhea. In 15 percent of children younger than 10, and more rarely for adults, the infection causes hemolytic uremic syndrome, in which red blood cells are destroyed and the kidneys fail. In a small percentage of such cases, the syndrome proves fatal. 
 Dr. Phillip I. Tarr, an expert at Washington University in St. Louis, says treatment is difficult because the bloody diarrhea that signals infection may not occur until three to four days after ingestion of the bacteria. By then, a patient could be well on the way to kidney failure. 
 Antibiotics, the usual treatment for bacterial infection, only make things worse by killing the bacteria and releasing more of their toxin, Dr. Tarr said. He added that the sole treatment shown to reduce the severity of kidney problems was intravenous fluids. 
 Other scientists are trying. Thallion Pharmaceuticals of Montreal and Teijin Pharma of Japan have separately developed monoclonal antibodies that can latch on to the toxin molecules and neutralize them. Monoclonal antibodies, a synthetic version of the body's own infection fighters, are commonly used to treat cancer and other diseases.
 Thallion and Teijin have shown that the antibodies can protect laboratory animals from lethal doses and have conducted preliminary safety testing in people. But at the recent F.D.A. advisory committee meeting, both said it would be prohibitively expensive to test whether their drugs could prevent hemolytic uremic syndrome. 
 Some outside scientists question whether a treatment that starts after the toxin is already in the bloodstream would be effective. 
 Dr. Szu of the health institutes said a better approach would be to vaccinate people so their immune systems could dispense with the bacteria before they had a chance to multiply and release their toxin in the bloodstream. 
 She and colleagues have developed a vaccine made of the complex sugar that is on the surface of the bacteria, the very O-type polysaccharide that gives O157 its name. The sugar is linked to a protein taken from another bacterium to make it more potent in stimulating the immune system. 
 Dr. Szu and collaborators have tested the vaccine on adult volunteers and on children 2 to 5. The volunteers were not exposed to O157 -- that would be unethical -- but they developed antibodies to it. Moreover, when the bacteria were exposed in the laboratory to blood samples from vaccinated people, the microbes were killed. Dr. Szu said the next test would be in infants. 
 The vaccine is years from the market. As with drugs, testing effectiveness would be difficult, and some experts say it may not make sense to vaccinate every child to protect a small number. 
 ''A lot of the economics of it would not be very favorable,'' said James B. Kaper, an expert on O157 at the Center for Vaccine Development at the University of Maryland. 
 Dr. Szu disagreed, saying, ''All human lives are precious, especially if you talk to parents who lost their children.'' 
 The cattle vaccine developed by Bioniche is based on the work of B. Brett Finlay of the University of British Columbia, who helped discover how O157 bacteria attach themselves to the cattle intestines, where they can then multiply. 
 The bacteria use a type of microscopic syringe to shoot proteins into the cells lining the intestine, and the cells erect a protein pedestal, to which the bacteria can bind. 
 The Bioniche vaccine consists of proteins involved in the attachment. The idea is that the cow's immune system would make antibodies to attack the proteins, thereby blocking the attachment. The bacteria could still pass through the cow and into manure. But if they could not colonize, their levels should remain low. 
 Tests at the University of Nebraska found that the vaccine reduced by 70 percent the number of cows shedding O157 into their manure, said Rodney A. Moxley, a professor of veterinary science there. 
 Mr. McRae, president of Bioniche in Belleville, Ontario, said the company would begin to distribute the vaccine in Canada in June or July after it increases manufacturing capacity. The approval there is conditional, and the company has to provide more data showing that the vaccine works. 
 Mr. McRae said he hoped to obtain approval to sell the vaccine in the United States from the Agriculture Department this year. He said feedlots would be charged no more than $2.20 a dose, with two doses needed. 
 Randall D. Huffman, vice president for scientific affairs at the American Meat Institute, which represents beef processors, said that the cost was ''not trivial'' and that the vaccine ''might not be right for everyone,'' because it was not 100 percent effective. 
 Still, Mr. Huffman said, ''If there is technology that is proven effective and is reasonable in cost, I think you'll see it adopted.''
 His organization and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association helped pay for the research on the vaccine and other approaches to reducing the shedding of O157. 
 One approach already in use is probiotics, the idea that friendly bacteria fed to cattle will displace O157. The Nutrition Physiology Corporation of Guymon, Okla., sells a feed additive with lactobacillus, the same type of bacterium used in yogurt. The additive is sold to aid cattle digestion, but some studies suggest that it also reduces O157 in manure. 
 An experimental approach is to feed cows sodium chlorate, a chemical used in the pulp and paper industry. This idea takes advantage of the fact that O157 has an enzyme that allows it to survive without oxygen, which is not true for most desirable bacteria. That enzyme will convert sodium chlorate to sodium chlorite, which poisons the pathogen. 
 ''It's like a suicide pill to the E. coli,'' said Robin C. Anderson, a microbiologist for the Agriculture Department in College Station, Tex. Dr. Anderson said the treatment did not harm the cow. 
 Eka Chemicals, which makes sodium chlorate for the paper industry, is working to obtain regulatory approval for a cattle treatment. 
 The antibiotic neomycin has also been shown to reduce O157 levels in manure.
 Using antibiotics in animals raises concerns of spurring development of human pathogens resistant to the medicines. Another approach being studied involves phages, viruses that infect and kill bacteria. 
 Experts say multiple approaches might be used in parallel, because no single approach works perfectly. 
 Michael T. Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, said he was skeptical about all the approaches. ''What really is a concern to me about this issue is we always have a tendency to want high-tech responses to what in many cases are common-sense low-tech solutions,'' Dr. Osterholm said. 
 He is a consultant to Fresh Express, the leading seller of bagged salads, and is head of a committee that will disburse $2 million from the company for research on how the produce industry should handle E. coli. He said stringent safety procedures had kept that company from having any contamination incidents. 
 In any case, even if a high-tech solution was desired, there does not seem to be a vaccine for spinach as there is for cattle. 
 Greens are now often rinsed in chlorine solution, but that is not always effective because surface nooks and crannies can shelter the bacteria, said James Gorney, senior vice president for food safety and technology at the United Fresh Produce Association, a trade group. 
 A possible alternative is to use a gas like chlorine dioxide instead of a liquid wash, Dr. Gorney said. Irradiation can also kill the bacteria. But he said the amount of radiation needed could damage fruits or vegetables. And some consumers object to the technique. 
 ''Any one of these technologies doesn't offer us a pasteurization step,'' Dr. Gorney said. ''So we are left with prevention, prevention and prevention, preventing the contamination from ever occurring.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: GREENS -- An E. coli outbreak last fall was traced to this spinach field in California. (Photo by Richard Green/The Salinas Californian, via Associated Press)(pg. F1)
ADDRESSING A THREAT -- Above, a cluster of E. coli bacteria. Below, cows at the University of Nebraska have been given a vaccine, reducing by 70 percent the number of animals shedding the bacteria in their manure. (Photos by Above, Department of Agriculture/Agricultural Research Service, via Reuters
 below, University of Nebraska Institute of Agriculture and Natural Resources)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: E COLI (92%); BACTERIA (92%); VACCINES (91%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); POISONINGS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (89%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); ANIMALS (87%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); VETERINARY SERVICES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (77%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (76%); BEEF (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (70%); APPROVALS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; E Coli (Bacteria); Bacteria; Research; Vaccination and Immunization; Livestock; Manure; Vegetables; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Spinach

COMPANY: BIONICHE LIFE SCIENCES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (84%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%) University of Idaho

TICKER: BNC (TSX) (55%); BNC (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack; Carolyn (Dr) Hovde Bhack

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINAS, CA, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



7 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Slows, Portending Weaker Economy

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Personal spending in the United States rose less than forecast in March, a sign that higher gasoline prices and a sagging housing market are chipping away at a mainstay of economic expansion. 
 Purchases gained 0.3 percent from the previous month, less than half the 0.7 percent increase in incomes, the Commerce Department said yesterday. The Federal Reserve Bank's preferred measure of inflation was unchanged from a month earlier, while the National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said its business activity index declined in April.
 ''It looks like consumer spending is going to be considerably weaker in the second quarter,'' said Carl Riccadonna, an economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. ''Consumers are the lone driver of the economy right now, and if consumer spending slows, the economy may be in trouble.''
 Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent rise in spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the economy, according to estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
 One factor helping to sustain spending is wages. Income growth exceeded the 0.6 percent predicted by economists.
 The unemployment rate matched a five-year low in March, and wages and salaries increased 1.1 percent in the first quarter, the most in six years, according to reports from the Labor Department.
 The report's price gauge, tied to spending patterns and excluding food and energy costs, which is the Fed's preferred measure, was unchanged in March, the first month since November without an increase. The increase in February was 0.3 percent. The gauge rose 2.1 percent in the 12 months ended in March. Fed policy makers have said that they would be comfortable with inflation in a 1 percent to 2 percent range.
 The savings rate improved to minus 0.8 percent from minus 1.2 percent a month earlier. A negative rate suggests that consumers are tapping savings to maintain spending.
 Higher gasoline prices and stagnant home values will keep consumer spending from growing as much this quarter as it did in the first three months of the year, economists said.
 Inflation-adjusted spending on durable goods, such as autos, furniture and other long-lasting items, rose 0.1 percent in March. Purchases of nondurable goods fell 0.1 percent. Spending on services, which account for almost 60 percent of all outlays, dropped 0.3 percent, reflecting lower utility bills in an unseasonably warm March.
 Prices at the gasoline pump for regular-grade gasoline rose in April to a national average of $2.88 a gallon, the highest in eight months, according to the Energy Department.
 The Chicago purchasers index fell to 52.9 in April, from 61.7 the previous month. Readings greater than 50 signal expansion, and March's report was the highest since April 2005.
 Economists at Morgan Stanley lowered their forecast for growth this quarter to an annual rate of 2.2 percent, from 2.4 percent, because of the slowdown in spending. They also projected that growth last quarter would be revised up to 1.5 percent, from 1.3 percent, after the revision to February construction figures. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Personal Income'' Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. Graph tracks personal income before taxes since 2005. Personal Income and Spending Income MARCH: $11.40 CHANGE FROM FEB.: +0.7% Consumption MARCH: 9.60 CHANGE FROM FEB.: +0.3 (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INFLATION (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Income; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Commerce Department; Federal Reserve System; National Assn of Purchasing Management; Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



8 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: To: The Temporarily Able-Bodied

 BODY:
Just about everyone who works pays taxes into the fund for federal disability benefits. But mercifully, relatively few people ever collect. To qualify, you must be unable to work, and your disability must be of such severity that you'll be out for at least a year or you're likely to die from it. 
 Those criteria are tough but necessary to ensure that resources go to the neediest Americans. In the past several years, however, another hurdle has been erected, one that is unacceptable and inhumane. Processing delays, mounting since 2000, have left more than one million applicants languishing without help, some for years.
The most acute bottlenecks are at the appeals level, where the average processing time is now 515 days -- compared with 274 days in 2000. Such delays are especially pernicious because slightly more than one-quarter of all approved claims are awarded after an appeal hearing, and nearly two-thirds of the people who appeal ultimately prevail. Without the benefits they are entitled to, far too many applicants get sicker and experience severe economic hardship, including foreclosures and even homelessness. Some applicants die before their appeals are heard. 
 The fault lies primarily with Congress. For many years, lawmakers have consistently cut into the budget for the Social Security Administration, which administers the disability program. Since 2000, the cumulative shortfall -- the difference between what the agency has asked for and what Congress has appropriated -- is $4.4 billion, with more than $2 billion of that in the last few years. 
 In the same period, demands on the agency have grown, resulting in a chronic shortage of people to do the work. Disability claims have risen, to 2.5 million in 2006 from 1.3 million in 2000, driven in part by the aging of the population. Disability claims also tend to rise when jobs are scarce, as was the case during much of the Bush-era economic expansion. Research shows that people who would tough out their disabilities during good times turn to government aid when they lose their jobs and are unable to find new ones. Congress has also recently imposed new tasks on the Social Security Administration, like assisting with immigration issues. 
 You get what you pay for. When it comes to helping disabled workers -- as with so many other duties of government -- recent Congresses have not been willing to pay for service that is prompt, professional and compassionate. 
 The agency generally gets high marks for productivity and efficiency, and estimates that it needs about $10.5 billion a year to be able to do its work adequately. The current Congress can begin to fix the disability program by providing the needed funds in the coming budget for 2008. Congress must also work closely with the new commissioner of Social Security, Michael Astrue, to ensure that a plausible plan to conquer the backlog is put in place quickly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (88%); DISABLED WORKERS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); APPEALS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); AGING TRENDS (65%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Disability Insurance; Handicapped

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%) Social Security (US)

PERSON: Michael J (Comr) Astrue

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



9 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Terrorist Attacks in Iraq and Afghanistan Rose Sharply Last Year, State Department Says

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30 

 BODY:
Terrorist attacks against noncombatants nearly doubled in Iraq from 2005 to 2006 and were up sharply in Afghanistan, with those two countries alone accounting for a 29 percent increase in terrorism worldwide, according to a report released Monday by the State Department.
 The report shows that the two countries where large numbers of American combat troops are deployed are also where terrorism is rising fastest. Terrorist attacks are up 91 percent in Iraq and 53 percent in Afghanistan, according to statistics compiled by the National Counterterrorism Center. In the rest of the world, total terrorist attacks declined by 3 percent. 
The new statistics record a rise in terrorist attacks on nonmilitary targets globally to 14,338 in 2006 from 11,153 in 2005, with an increase in deaths to 20,498 from 14,618. But Iraq alone accounted for nearly half of all the attacks and about two-thirds of fatalities, according to the report, ''Country Reports on Terrorism, 2006,'' posted Monday on the State Department's Web site.
 The numbers underscore the ineffectiveness of battling terrorism with conventional military means, said John Arquilla, who studies terrorism at the Naval Postgraduate School.
 ''It is most curious that the areas where we have military operations have the most attacks,'' Mr. Arquilla said. ''These statistics suggest that our war on global terrorism is not going very well. It suggests we need to try a new approach.''
 The State Department report said that the invasion of Iraq ''has been used by terrorists as a rallying cry for radicalization and extremist activity that has contributed to instability in neighboring countries.''
 At a news briefing to release the report, Frank C. Urbancic Jr., the State Department's acting coordinator for counterterrorism, said the statistics reflected the viral spread of terrorists' methods. In Afghanistan, there has been a rapid rise in suicide attacks mimicking those in Iraq, and methods for making improvised explosive devices have evolved in the face of American moves to counter them.
 ''The terrorists, there's no question, are intelligent people, and they learn from each other,'' Mr. Urbancic said. ''The people in Afghanistan are watching the people in Iraq, the people in Iraq are watching the people elsewhere, and there's a snowball effect. And they work through the Internet, they communicate.''
 The annual report is the second to follow a controversy over the government's count of terrorist attacks in 2004, when the secretary of state at the time, Colin L. Powell, acknowledged that the numbers publicly announced were artificially low. The admission followed a critique from two academic experts, Alan B. Krueger, of Princeton, and David Laitin, of Stanford.
 With two years of data compiled using the same definitions and methodology, this year's State Department report allows a meaningful comparison. Mr. Krueger, an economist who has advised the government on the statistical questions since 2004, said the new methodology has cleared up some confusion.
 ''I'd give it a B-plus,'' said Mr. Krueger, who is writing a book on the causes of terrorism. He said he believes the definition of terrorism used by the National Counterterrorism Center is still too broad, including some assassinations of particular individuals rather than random attacks intended to spread fear.
 Mr. Krueger also said he regretted the fact that the change in methodologies over time has made tracking long-term trends in terrorism very difficult.
 The report lists five countries as ''state sponsors of terrorism'': Iran, Syria, Sudan, Cuba and North Korea. Libya was dropped after more than two decades on the American list, and the report notes that in February, the United States agreed to ''begin the process of removing'' the terrorist sponsor designation from North Korea.
 The report acknowledges the resilience of Al Qaeda, whose leaders, Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahri, are believed to be in hiding in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border area. It says the terrorist group has shifted from ''expeditionary'' plots such as the Sept. 11 attacks, in which a team is assembled and sent to another country to carry out the assault, to ''guerrilla'' attacks, using local recruits in the country where the attack takes place.
 Mr. Arquilla said American tactics in some parts of Iraq were beginning to be adjusted to achieve better results, notably in Anbar Province, where American commanders are working closely with Sunni tribal leaders to counter Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.
 Mr. Urbancic, of the State Department, suggested a shift in tactics in Iraq and beyond. ''While killing and capturing key terrorist actors is fundamental in combating terrorism, these actions do not eliminate the threat,'' he said at the briefing. ''We must also seek to build trusted networks of governments, private citizens and organizations, multilateral institutions, and business groups that will work collaboratively to defeat the threat from violent extremism and its radical ideology.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (94%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (79%); IRAQ WAR (79%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); STATISTICS (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); DEATHS (69%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (59%) Scott Shane; Frank C Jr Urbancic; Osama Bin Laden; Ayman Al- Zawahiri

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (91%) Afghanistan ; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



10 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

DATELINE: BLACKSBURG, Va., April 28 

 BODY:
In a small yarn shop near the Virginia Tech campus, Molly Heterick sat knitting at a wooden table with her friends this week, looping coarse strands of wool over her needles until a small patch in the colors of the university started to take shape.
 ''We are so tired of crying,'' said Gina Bonomo, the owner of the Mosaic Yarn Shop.
''So we knit,'' said Mrs. Heterick, 69, never looking up from her work. ''This is what we do.''
 Last week's mass shooting, in which Seung-Hui Cho killed 32 students and teachers at Virginia Tech, has taken an emotional toll on Blacksburg, which is as intertwined with the university as the knit squares that Mrs. Heterick, Ms. Bonomo and others will sew together into 32 patchwork blankets: one to comfort each family the victims left behind. 
 That means they need 2,100 squares. But in a town like this, where residents take cake and cookies to welcome new neighbors and some do not bother to lock front doors, there are plenty of volunteers.
 ''It's like living in a mill town, where every day you go in and work there,'' Ms. Bonomo said. ''Even if you don't know somebody who was shot and killed, you feel like it was someone in your family.''
 Like many others in this town of about 40,000, the women at the shop come from generations of family members who have attended or worked at the sprawling university less than a mile from where they sit.
 The tragedy has bound the community like never before, reflecting more than a century of economic, social and historical ties between the university and Blacksburg, which developed around it.
 On downtown North Main Street, most of the businesses -- from burger bars to dry cleaners to pizza parlors -- have put up signs that proclaim Hokie solidarity, invoking the nickname of the university's students.
 Ribbons in the university's orange and maroon colors are affixed to lampposts, trees, restaurants, and accountants' and lawyers' offices. After the killings, residents, students and students' families who came to Blacksburg wore orange-and-maroon shirts and caps.
 ''Without the university, this whole area would not be what it is,'' said Charlie Whitescarver, associate director of Volume Two Bookstore, which sells university-themed clothing and memorabilia.
 ''If Virginia Tech has something good going on, like a football game, the whole county benefits,'' Mr. Whitescarver said. ''If it has a tragedy, the whole county hurts.'' 
 After the shootings, classes were canceled for the rest of the week and some students left town, choosing not to return for the rest of the semester. But there is no indication that the reduced student body has hurt the regional economy. In fact, families who visited Blacksburg to show support appeared to have buoyed business, said Star Boling, manager of the Campus Emporium.
 Ms. Boling's observation was borne out by the lines of customers at downtown restaurants.
 ''I have never seen such overwhelming support,'' she said. ''We are getting new stock in every day. We were just cleared out.''
 But there is still an unsettled air. One hotel arranged a comedy show to relieve the mood. Fliers advertising counseling services went up in shop windows. At least one gun shop owner in nearby Christiansburg said there was an increased interest in handguns.
 After the shootings, the Blacksburg Public Library organized a collection of books to reflect the times, stacking editions of ''Healing a Parent's Grieving Heart: 100 Practical Ideas After Your Child Dies'' with ''Lost Boy: Why Our Sons Turn Violent and How We Can Save Them'' next to a photograph of hundreds of Virginia Tech students at a candlelight vigil.
 With only one week left of classes this semester, the response to the bloodshed will probably seep into the cultural and intellectual life of the town as time goes on and students return in the fall.
 The town and the university are co-producing an annual arts festival in June, with concerts and cultural events that this year may take on hues of healing.
 ''This is something that is a steppingstone,'' said E. Jane Harrison, the university's festival producer.
 Set amid gentle hills on a plateau between the Blue Ridge and the Allegheny Mountains, Blacksburg sees its population swell each semester by more than 26,000 students.
 The university has long helped the surrounding area thrive.
 ''We go out and say we have a major research university and we would love your business,'' said Aric H. Bopp, the executive director of the New River Valley Economic Development Alliance.
 ''Being a college town, we are a very international culture,'' Mr. Bopp said. ''It's a huge component of the regional economy.''
 According to figures provided by a Blacksburg town official, Heather D. Browning, the nearly 22,000 undergraduate students pump more than $81 million a year into the local economy and graduate students about $45 million. About $1.2 billion is generated from university-related spending in surrounding Montgomery County.
 In addition, the university has a dedicated following, with up to 60,000 people visiting for football games and patronizing hotels, restaurants and food stores to stock up for tailgating parties. 
 University officials say it may be too soon to teach some classes, like those with violent content.
 ''After something like this happens, every element and aspect of campus decisions will be re-examined over a period of time,'' Mark Owczarski, the director of news and information, said when asked if there had been any curriculum changes.
 ''I can assure you every single faculty member is going to be looking at all they have done,'' Mr. Owczarski said. ''We owe that to this community to re-examine all that. All of those questions: that's occurring in every corner of this campus.''
 This year, Virginia Tech accepted 12,848 new students for the fall term. In an effort to return to normal, it resumed classes on April 23 and is conducting tours for prospective students.
 Mr. Owczarski said university administrators would not know the full effect of the shootings on admissions until the May 1 deadline for students to accept. 
 But he said, ''We have received indications from five students that they will be declining our offer because of last week.''
 With the economies of the town and the campus inextricably linked, events in one place inevitably reverberate in the other.
 A plan to renovate an 1897 building for the town's new museum, for example, will be financed by selling parking spaces in Blacksburg to fans attending university football games, said Jessica Wirgau, the museum coordinator.
 ''There is a real sense of community engagement,'' Ms. Wirgau said. ''The town melds into the campus.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gina Bonomo, center left, is the owner of the Mosaic Yarn Shop in Blacksburg, Va., where residents have gathered to knit squares that will be sewn into 32 patchwork blankets in memory of the Virginia Tech victims. (Photographs by Stephanie Klein-Davis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (90%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); BOOKSTORES (73%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Colleges and Universities; Murders and Attempted Murders

ORGANIZATION: Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University

PERSON: Christine Hauser; Seung-Hui Cho

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Blacksburg (Va)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



11 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2077 words

HEADLINE: Coral Is Dying. Can It Be Reborn?

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

DATELINE: TAVERNIER, Fla. 

 BODY:
Clouds were moving across the sun and a 20-knot northeast wind was stirring a 3-foot chop as Meaghan Johnson headed her open boat into the Florida Straits.
 Ms. Johnson, a program coordinator for the Nature Conservancy, headed the boat into the swells, to minimize swamping, as her passengers tried in vain to avoid soaking spray.
One of them, Ken Nedimyer, stood next to her at the console, gazing out at the seemingly featureless welter of waves, seeking signs -- a slight change in water depth here, a barely visible underwater patch of reef there -- that only he could recognize and triangulate with the rapidly disappearing onshore landmarks of Key Largo. 
 About two and a half miles out, he told Ms. Johnson to throttle back a bit. ''Over there,'' he said, pointing off the starboard bow. ''About 400 yards.'' 
 The boat pulled up to the site and Philip Kramer, who directs the conservancy's Caribbean Marine Program, set its anchor. Soon he, Ms. Johnson and Mr. Nedimyer were over the side, peering into the water through their snorkeling masks. Below them was what they had come to see, an array of concrete disks set in the sand. Each one held a tiny piece of coral.
 Mr. Nedimyer had led them to a nursery, one of a number he has established since 2000, when chance, coincidence, a government program and a lifelong passion for tropical fish set him on an adventure: a quest to nourish and restore the tattered remains of the Keys' once glorious reefs.
 He is working with assistance from the conservancy, which in turn cooperates with the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary and the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, which has its own coral efforts in places like Puerto Rico. Meanwhile, the Environmental Protection Agency is looking at water quality standards for corals in Florida, Hawaii, the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, the only American territories where they occur. The Coral Reef Task Force, created in the Clinton administration, regularly assesses coral health. The World Bank, motivated in large part by corals' importance for ecosystems and ecotourism, has embarked on a global program to assess restoration efforts and to identify tactics to combat their decline.
 And 90 miles south on Highway 1, the traffic-snarled spine of the Keys, biologists at the Mote Marine Laboratory struggle with their own coral nursery efforts. Like Mr. Nedimyer, they are trying to identify strains of coral that grow well in the Keys, and to re-establish them offshore. 
 Theirs is an uphill battle. Many would say corals globally are already so damaged, and so threatened by further environmental degradation, that there is little chance restoration efforts can turn things around. 
 Staghorn and elkhorn corals, Mr. Nedimyer's principal interests, were once abundant in South Florida, the Bahamas and elsewhere in the Caribbean. But since the 1990s they have significantly declined, to the point that last year they were placed on the threatened list, under the Endangered Species Act. 
 They are suffering the kinds of environmental disruption that afflict corals around the world. ''We have lost 25 percent of the world's corals in the last 25 years,'' David E. Vaughan, director of the Center for Coral Reef Research at Mote, said in an interview, adding that 25 percent more are expected to die in the next decade or two. ''Sometimes we sound like doomsday sayers,'' Dr. Vaughan said, ''but those are the facts.''
 Environmental disruption takes many forms. Fishing boats, and even dive boats and divers, can damage reefs. Sea turtles bang into corals, breaking them. Polluted runoff can deprive corals of the clear, oxygen-rich water they need to survive. 
 And then there is global warming. So far, scientists say, it has had two main effects on coral, both potentially lethal. First, as oceans absorb more carbon dioxide, the chief greenhouse gas, they become more acidic. The acidity makes it more difficult for corals to grow and may even cause them to start to dissolve. And as oceans warm, algae that live in corals, and on which they depend, may be killed.
 David Lackland, a biologist at Mote, tells children who visit that corals live with algae as people might live if they liked asparagus, say, but instead of raising it in gardens they grew it inside their bodies, absorbing it directly as energy and fertilizing it with their waste in a symbiotic relationship. Different kinds of corals have different kinds of algae symbionts, but if the algae are threatened, corals are threatened, too.
 Another serious disruption is overfishing.
 Corals need herbivorous fish to keep unwanted algae under control. When seaweed-eating fish are gone, ''you are going to end up with seaweed blooms,'' said Nancy Knowlton, director of the Center for Marine Biodiversity and Conservation at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and a leader in the World Bank effort. ''It's been shown that seaweeds release a lot of sugars into the water,'' she said. Because many bacteria need sugars, ''you have these bacteria blooms that kill corals.''
 Corals also need predators like groupers, snappers, barracudas and even lobsters to prevent the proliferation of coral-eating snails, worms and other organisms. 
 Meanwhile, a host of diseases plague coral, many of them poorly understood. For example, staghorn and elkhorn coral are vulnerable to so-called white-band disease, in which coral tissue mysteriously decays. The disease, which struck the Caribbean in the mid-1990s, kills healthy tissue, leaving only white skeletons. It usually progresses quickly, and while it almost never wipes out complete colonies, colonies can be reinfected.
 Scientists do not know for sure what causes the condition, and their suspects -- bacteria, fungi and other microbes -- are present at healthy corals as well as sickly formations, adding to the mystery.
 Corals in South Florida have another big problem, a die-off of sea urchins, which began succumbing wholesale to a mysterious ailment about 20 years ago. Urchins graze on unwanted algae, and without them, corals in many areas have been smothered in overgrowth, making it difficult or impossible for them to grow or propagate. 
 Mr. Nedimyer focuses most of his efforts on coral, something he got into almost by accident several years ago, through his work as a wholesale dealer in aquarium supplies, a business he has operated for 35 years. One of his products is ''live rock,'' reef rubble that bacteria colonize. In aquariums, the bacteria help break down waste from fish.
 He had permission from the government to gather live rock at a particular site and one day about 10 years ago, he noticed that a few bits of rubble had something growing on them. ''I didn't know what it was at first,'' he said. ''I saw five of these little things. I kept watching them and pretty soon they started to grow out into staghorn coral.'' He set the rocks aside, underwater, and managed to keep the coral growing in spite of storms and other problems. When he found broken pieces of coral he stuck them in other pieces of rock, and ''sometimes they would live.''
 In 2000, at an aquarium in Orlando, he heard a presentation on Pacific coral and learned that ''you can cut these things into tiny fragments and glue them to things and they will grow.'' Back in the Keys, he started experimenting. His daughter Kelly helped, turning the work into a 4-H project.
 At first it was trial and error. They experimented with growing platforms and especially with how to glue coral fragments to them. ''We tried a lot of epoxy,'' Mr. Nedimyer said. ''We found kinds that stick to wetsuits, tohair, to cameras.'' 
 Eventually, they discovered a two-part epoxy glue used in taxidermy. They can mix it on a boat and it remains workable for about half an hour. And it is white, which looks nice against the sandy bottom. 
 For a brief heady moment, he recalled, he thought about the fact that he has government permission to sell coral and considered turning it into a lucrative sideline for his business. But then, he said, he started thinking about what had happened to the Keys' reefs since he first encountered them in the 1970s, ''when there would be thickets three, four, five feet high and just vast.'' 
 Those kinds of underwater landscapes have just about vanished, he said. ''So I thought, well, these corals are in trouble. And we can make a difference rather than make money.'' Today he has several nurseries, each with a variety of coral strains, at varying depth, water quality and distance from shore. The goal of the project is to identify which coral strains are most robust and in what conditions. Dr. Kramer, Ms. Johnson and Mr. Nedimyer were pleased by the corals they saw at the nursery. After climbing back into the boat, Mr. Nedimyer said: ''They were a few inches, now they are two or three times the size. That's a lot of growth in six months.''
 Dr. Knowlton, the coral expert at Scripps, said staghorn coral was among the fastest growing -- up to four inches or so from branch tips in a year, whereas most corals grow only about half an inch a year. But, she said, corals that grow quickly are often unusually sensitive to their environment. ''They can slip from growing really fast to dying really fast,'' she said.
 At Mote, Mr. Lackland maintains and propagates a variety of coral species in tanks, and hopes to emulate Mr. Nedimyer with offshore nurseries between Looe Key and American Shoals. 
 Like Mr. Nedimyer, Mr. Lackland, who is 40, parlayed a youthful fascination with marine creatures -- he had corals in tanks in his bedroom as a teenager in Watchung, N.J. -- into his life's work. After earning a bachelor's degree in biology, he worked at an aquarium in Point Pleasant Beach, N.J., where his one-bedroom apartment had six tank systems filled with coral. Friends told him he had ''a blue thumb.'' 
 Eventually, he said, he decided to go to the Florida Keys, ''where they have the most hurting ocean, an ocean that's slipping away as far as its coral cover.'' He presented himself at the National Marine Sanctuary, where he learned there might be an opening for a biologist at Mote. When he got the job, ''I was thrilled,'' he said.
 Today, he presides over several rooms full of tanks where many species of coral grow on networks of iron pipes. Mr. Lackland has devised elaborate systems to mimic the flow of ocean currents, the varying pressure of waves and even the coming and going of daylight. He feeds his coral oyster larvae and other plankton, which he buys from an aquarium supplier, and he has devised formulas to maintain the proper mineral balance in the water. 
 Some of his corals are doing so well they have even spawned in the tanks.
 Like Mr. Nedimyer, he is starting corals on concrete disks and establishing them in the water, in his case between Looe Key and American Shoals, near the laboratory.
 Dr. Kramer noted that, over all, ''corals have managed to deal with many swift changes in the last million and half years.'' He added, ''Over these geological time scales, in the long term, corals may be able to handle these climate changes.'' Meanwhile, though, he said, ''I think these types of strategies have a real role to play.''
 For scientists like Dr. Knowlton, the major question is not whether some coral strains might do better than others. That is almost a given, she said. ''The biggest problem is making a difference on a regional scale or even on a large local scale.'' 
 She said people interested in corals should focus on ''fixing the things we can fix -- climate action or water quality action or stopping overfishing.''
 In interviews, Mr. Lackland and Mr. Nedimyer separately acknowledged that viewed from any reasonable perspective, the problem is huge and their efforts are small. 
 ''I am not an ostrich,'' Mr. Lackland said. ''The facts are really bad.'' But, he added, ''If the ocean is really in that bad condition, let's gear up!''
 Mr. Nedimyer shares this view even though, as he put it, every day he spends on the project ''is one day I can't make a living.'' But one of its major rewards, he said, was its lesson for his daughter Kelly, now 19 and a student at the University of Central Florida, and the Coral Shores students working with him. ''We have turned five corals into five to seven hundred,'' he said. ''In another year or two we'll have several thousand corals. That's mostly one person making a difference.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article and picture caption in Science Times on Tuesday about efforts to re-establish coral reefs referred incorrectly to the networks of pipes on which coral is grown in the Mote Marine Laboratory in Florida. The pipes are made of PVC, not iron. The article also carried an incomplete list of American territories where corals occur. Besides Florida, Hawaii, the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, corals also grow in warm and cold water in several other areas, including American Samoa and the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana and Texas.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CORAL INCUBATOR -- Several species of coral are grown on iron pipes in tanks at the Mote Marine Laboratory in Florida. Biologists are trying to identify strains that grow well in the Florida Keys and re-establish them offshore. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
CARE AND FEEDING -- David Lackland, above, feeding his coral colonies. At left, a captured coral on the day it was mounted, above, and less than six months later. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times, above
photographs at left by Ken Nedimyer)
NEW GROWTH -- This block of staghorn coral was mounted in the fall of 2004. The white tips are an indication that it is growing. (Photo by Ken Nedimyer)
 THE NURSERY -- An aerial photograph, above right, shows the locations of eco-reefs and coral nurseries like the one above, with blocks containing coral cuttings mounted on numbered disks. At right, a hogfish eating a diadema sea urchin. The urchins graze on unwanted algae but began succumbing to a mysterious ailment about 20 years ago. (Photographs by Ken Nedimyer)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (88%); WATER SPORTS (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); ECOTOURISM (77%); FISHES (77%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (75%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); WATER QUALITY (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Coral; Endangered and Extinct Species; Research; Fish and Other Marine Life

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (58%) Mote Marine Laboratory; Center for Coral Reef Research; Nature Conservancy

PERSON: Cornelia Dean; Ken Nedimyer; David E Vaughan

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (98%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); PUERTO RICO (91%); BAHAMAS (79%) Florida; Florida Keys

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



12 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Old Questions Linger as New PCB Cleanup Starts

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: PITTSFIELD, Mass. 

 BODY:
More than 30 years have passed since Congress banned a broad range of synthetic compounds called PCBs. Yet 2.65 million cubic yards of mud on the bottom of the Hudson River remain contaminated with the chemicals, which are considered neurotoxins and probable human carcinogens. 
 Since 2002, General Electric has been under federal order to clean approximately 40 miles of the Hudson where its factories discharged PCBs. Preliminary site clearing for the huge project began last week, but actual dredging will not start until 2009 at the earliest.
Here, on another PCB-contaminated river about 60 miles to the southeast in Massachusetts, G.E. has made more progress, albeit haltingly. 
 Working with the federal government, the company completed the cleanup of a two-mile stretch of the Housatonic River late last year, scooping out the heaviest concentrations of the industrial chemicals. While much remains to be done along the remaining 100 miles or more of the Housatonic, its most heavily contaminated section is now cleaner than it has been in a long time. 
 The two projects differ in scale and expense as much as the two rivers differ in depth and breadth, and each presents unique engineering challenges. 
 The Hudson project covers 40 miles of the broad river from which the 2.65 million cubic yards of contaminated sediment will have to be dredged, at an estimated cost of $700 million. 
 By contrast, the first phase of the cleanup of the Housatonic, a far gentler river, had a price tag of $250 million and involved 110,000 cubic yards of mud. 
 Still, the Housatonic cleanup dragged on for more than six years, twice the expected time. And there is no timetable or cost estimate yet for decontaminating the river's lower reaches.
 Based on their experience on the Housatonic, scientists, G.E. officials, government authorities and people who live in the local communities affected by PCBs all agree that work on the Hudson, whenever it starts, is likely to take far longer than expected and will run into more technological obstacles than anyone anticipates. 
 Almost certainly, the level of public suspicion and mistrust surrounding these projects will not soon subside. Peter L. deFur, an environmental consultant who advises local groups concerned about the Housatonic cleanup, said that although the company had belatedly been doing a ''pretty good'' job on the river, the people who live along the Hudson should be warned that ''G.E. has been absolutely the opposite of a responsible party.'' 
 Stephen D. Ramsey, G.E.'s vice president for corporate environmental programs, who is overseeing both cleanups, said the company had proved its good faith by spending more than a billion dollars studying and cleaning up PCBs, mostly in these two rivers. 
 But he said there is little that G.E. can do to change perceptions ''except to be very clear with the public about what is the status of the project, what people can expect to see and what are the issues we are encountering as we go along.'' 
 In the last century, G.E. discovered many profitable ways of using PCBs, or polychlorinated biphenyls, a slippery yellowish goo as thick as motor oil that can resist heat without catching fire. G.E. used vast quantities at its Hudson Falls and Fort Edward factories on the Hudson to build electrical capacitors. At its sprawling plant here on the Housatonic, G.E. used them in transformers. 
 After the chemicals were banned in 1976, the company agreed to clean up its properties. But it argued that the vast quantities of PCBs that had been discharged into the rivers would break down on their own or be harmlessly buried under a protective layer of silt. At first the federal Environmental Protection Agency agreed. 
 As scientific understanding advanced, however, the agency decided to take a second look. Even nestled in the river mud, the chemicals were being ingested by worms and other invertebrates, which were in turn eaten by small fish, and those were eaten by larger ones, which eventually were consumed by people. 
 The only ways to solve the problem, the E.P.A. decided in the late 1980s, were to remove or cap the PCBs. 
 G.E. spent millions of dollars on advertising trying to convince local residents that dredging was worse than doing nothing, but the company eventually accepted a plan to clean more than 40 miles of the Hudson, from Fort Edward to the Troy dam, in two phases. 
 The first phase, a kind of trial run to last one year, was originally set to begin in 2006 but is now set for 2009. The final phase is scheduled to last five years. 
 The Housatonic cleanup has a more compact history. The 254-acre G.E. plant in Pittsfield used PCBs from 1932 until they were banned. Storm water runoff from the plant carried the chemicals into the Housatonic, where they spread downstream, contaminating more than 100 miles of river in Massachusetts and Connecticut. 
 In 1999, G.E. agreed to a $250 million settlement to clean a highly contaminated half-mile portion of the river that ran through the company's property in Pittsfield. Because the Housatonic in that area is only a few feet deep and a few yards wide, G.E. could, in essence, dry-clean the river. 
 At the end of 1999, it started work on a temporary dam across half the river, and when that half-mile section of the riverbed dried out, front-end loaders scraped off two feet of mud and dumped it onto trucks to be buried at G.E.'s Pittsfield property. The temporary dam was then moved to the other side of the river, where the process was repeated. 
 The E.P.A. cleaned the next 1.5 miles of river itself, billing G.E. for half the cost. The agency chose to divert the Housatonic through a large pipe and then bring in heavy equipment to scrape the river bottom. 
 G.E. had other PCB problems in Pittsfield. Over the years, the company had given away PCB-soaked dirt and other material that property owners used as fill in their backyards. In the late 1990s, G.E. performed tests at more than 300 homes and ended up excavating the soil around more than 175 of them, as well as at one Pittsfield public school. 
 A resident and former G.E. employee, David Gibbs, 56, found that several chemical drums had been buried in his backyard near the river. In a recent interview, Mr. Gibbs said that he caught G.E.'s contractors trying to cut corners as they cleaned up his property and that he developed a lasting mistrust of the company.
 ''My family's lived in this neighborhood for over 60 years,'' Mr. Gibbs said. ''G.E. owes it to us to clean our river.'' 
 Another resident, Tim Gray, 54, is executive director of the Housatonic River Initiative, which acts as a watchdog on G.E.'s activities. Mr. Gray pushed to have Pittsfield added to the national list of Superfund sites, but local officials objected, saying they believed it would stigmatize the city, causing economic harm. 
 In March, G.E. held public hearings in Massachusetts and Connecticut to discuss options for cleaning the 135 miles of river from Pittsfield south to the Long Island Sound. They range from dredging long stretches to doing nothing at all. 
 At a hearing in Kent, Conn., G.E. presented data indicating that PCB concentrations in fish and invertebrates had declined substantially before leveling off in recent years. When the company suggested that the river was cleaning itself, Mr. Gray objected, as did Mr. deFur, the environmental consultant.
 ''I think they're trying to put something over on people,'' Mr. deFur said. If the river was cleaning itself, he said, concentrations would continue to decline. He said the chemicals were degraded in water but not destroyed. Continued leakage from the plant and an incomplete cleanup mean the riverremains polluted, he said. 
 At the Hudson Falls plant, a few ounces of PCBs continue to leak into the river each day, according to G.E. Local environmental advocates express fears that the chemicals have also contaminated the soil beneath homes in the area, but G.E. has not agreed to a residential cleanup, as it did in Pittsfield. 
 ''Pittsfield is a precedent that G.E. did not want to set,'' said Robert Goldstein, a lawyer for Riverkeeper, an environmental group on the Hudson. ''They did not want to advertise to the folks in Fort Edward that there was an upland cleanup.'' 
 Since it would be impossible to reroute the Hudson the way the engineers diverted the Housatonic, Mr. Ramsey, the G.E. official, said the company would use old-fashioned mechanical dredging. A ''yellow iron Tonka Toy look-alike clamshell dredge'' will scoop up contaminated river mud and dump it on barges, he said. The dried sediment will then be shipped by rail to a licensed landfill outside the Hudson Valley, he said. 
 Mr. Ramsey said the Housatonic project had taught him that even with advanced engineering, ''things take longer than everyone thinks.'' 
 The biggest challenge on the Hudson will be ensuring that the dredged material is not set adrift, Mr. Ramsey said. He said the affected communities needed to understand that if monitoring shows that too much material is escaping, the operation could be slowed down or suspended. 
 ''If there are starts and stops,'' Mr. Ramsey said, ''it won't be because anyone is trying to pull a fast one.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A map on Tuesday with an article comparing two PCB-removal projects by General Electric -- one on the Hudson River in New York and the other on the Housatonic in Massachusetts -- misspelled part of the name of a city near the G.E. factory in Hudson Falls, N.Y. It is Glens Falls, not Glen Falls.

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Gibbs, left, in his backyard near the G.E. plant in Pittsfield with Tim Gray, executive director of the Housatonic River Initiative.
 A sign posted on a tree at Woods Pond in Pittsfield warns of the contamination of fish, waterfowl, frogs and turtles by PCBs, banned synthetic compounds that are considered neurotoxins and probable carcinogens. (Photographs by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. B4) Map of New York highlights Fort Edward as well as the the Hudson and Housatonic Rivers: Site work has begun at Fort Edward on a project to remove PCBs from the Hudson. Dredging of the Housatonic near Pittsfield is finished. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (93%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (90%); RIVERS (89%); CHLORINE (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (77%); CHEMICALS (73%); CARCINOGENS (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%) Water Pollution; Dredges and Dredging; Pcb (Polychlorinated Biphenyls); Finances; Water Pollution

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Electric Co

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Housatonic River; Massachusetts; Hudson River; New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



13 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Shares Retreat as Investors Take Profits

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street retreated yesterday as investors cashed in some profits on the last trading day of April, the Dow Jones industrial average's best month in more than three years.
 The Dow managed a new trading high before investors pulled money out of the market ahead of today's manufacturing data from the Institute for Supply Management. The report's precursor, the Chicago Purchasing Managers' index of manufacturing activity in the Midwest, came in weaker than expected yesterday
The Dow surged 5.7 percent in April, the biggest percentage gain since December 2003, thanks in large part to first-quarter earnings that were stronger than analysts predicted. Quarterly profits released yesterday by Verizon Communications, the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, Kellogg and RadioShack extended that trend. 
 The Commerce Department reported yesterday that core inflation, as measured by personal consumption spending, was up 2.1 percent for the last 12 months ending in March. That was lower than the 2.4 percent rise in the 12 months ending in February, which could increase the odds that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates.
 But the data also showed that personal spending increased only 0.3 percent, causing some restraint among investors who are concerned about the economy's slowing too quickly.
 ''What the market is always going to ask is, 'What have you done for me lately?' '' said Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist at Trusco Capital Management. ''The good earnings news has at least to some degree been reflected in stock market prices -- companies are going to have to continue generating these good numbers to see the market go higher.''
 The Dow fell 58.03 points, to 13,062.91, after reaching a new trading high of 13,162.06. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 11.70 points, to 1,482.37, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 32.12 points, to 2,525.09. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 15.13 points, to 814.57.
 Caution ahead of this week's economic data ended up overshadowing strong earnings data yesterday.
 Verizon, one of the 30 Dow stocks, reported that its first-quarter profit fell 8.4 percent, but revenue rose 17 percent and the results beat predictions. Verizon rose 29 cents, to $38.18.
 RadioShack and Wrigley also posted strong first-quarter profits. RadioShack rose $1.35, to $29.07, while Wrigley jumped $3.83, to $58.88.
 Corporate growth has been better than expected but is in the single digits, slower than in recent quarters. That has allowed price-to-earnings ratios to rise, noted Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial Services, indicating that stocks have potential to rise further.
 In other corporate news, the German stock exchange operator Deutsche Borse confirmed it had agreed to buy the American options exchange International Securities Exchange Holdings for $2.8 billion in cash. I.S.E. surged $20.97, to $66.69.
 Light crude oil fell 75 cents, to $65.71 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 17/32, to 100. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.62 percent from 4.69 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills: 
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)
 20,20,20


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.790	97.563	High Rate	4.785	4.820	Investment Rate	4.924	5.023	Low Rate	4.755	4.785	Median Rate	4.770	4.805	Total applied for	$40,635,894	$36,671,394 	Accepted	$19,132,457	$17,371,094	Noncompetitive	$1,981,730	$1,880,432	 Both issues are dated May 03, 2007. The three-month bills mature on Aug. 2, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on Nov. 1, 2007. 
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TRENDS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (52%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: WILLIAM WRIGLEY JR CO (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (60%); RADIOSHACK CORP (56%); RIDGEWORTH CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (54%); INTERNATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); RSH (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (83%); SIC2067 CHEWING GUM (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (60%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



14 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Wolfowitz Goes on the Attack, While Hinting at a Deal

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30 

 BODY:
Paul D. Wolfowitz defended himself vigorously on Monday, declaring that it would be ''unjust and frankly hypocritical'' for the World Bank's board to find him guilty of ethical lapses. But he also hinted that he would discuss whether to resign as bank president if the board cleared him of misconduct.
 Appearing before a committee of the bank's board of directors and going on the attack after weeks of silence, Mr. Wolfowitz also charged that he had been the victim of ''orchestrated leaks of false, misleading, incomplete and personal information'' intended to ''undermine my effectiveness as president.''
''The goal of this smear campaign, I believe, is to create a self-fulfilling prophecy that I am an ineffective leader and must step down for that reason alone, even if the ethics charges are unwarranted,'' he said. ''I, for one, will not give in to such tactics. And I will not resign in the face of a plainly bogus charge of conflict of interest.'' 
 Mr. Wolfowitz's lawyer released his client's comments in a statement on Monday.
 Mr. Wolfowitz's defiant response left unclear what would happen next, but many at the bank saw it as a prelude to his eventual departure if negotiations could lead to the board's endorsement of his claim that he had acted in good faith, not favoritism, in arranging for a pay increase for Shaha Ali Riza, his companion, in 2005. She was, at the time, being transferred to the State Department, but continued to receive her salary from the bank. 
 The seven-member committee of the bank's board also heard testimony Monday afternoon from Ms. Riza, who charged that she had been unjustly pushed out of the bank by ''a powerful group'' there that had been hostile to her over other matters.
 Ethics officials ordered Mr. Wolfowitz in 2005 to arrange for her transfer out of the bank with some form of compensation, which ended up being a salary increase and a promotion that have drawn fire from critics. Those officials are also to testify before the committee.
 The board committee is to digest the testimony, decide whether Mr. Wolfowitz violated any rules in his direct role in the compensation package, give him a chance to respond, and forward its final recommendation to the 24-member board by Thursday.
 The board could then take action on the matter by the end of the week. But some bank officials say there could also be a parallel negotiation with Mr. Wolfowitz.
 Mr. Wolfowitz's hint that he might be receptive to a deal was in the last paragraph of the seven-page statement released by the office of his lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, shortly after the bank president read it in a private session at the World Bank headquarters in Washington. At the end of the day, Mr. Wolfowitz sent it by e-mail to bank employees.
 ''Only when the cloud of these unfair and untrue charges is removed, will it be truly possible to determine objectively whether I can be an effective leader of the World Bank,'' Mr. Wolfowitz said, in what was widely seen at the bank as an indication he would consider resigning. 
 The statement appeared to show his recognition of the loss of confidence he has suffered among a growing number of officials, for several reasons. Among those reasons have been his crackdown on corruption and his reliance on a small group of close aides brought from the Bush administration, where he had served as deputy defense secretary and an architect of the Iraq war.
 Mr. Wolfowitz has also come under fire as internal documents have surfaced indicating that his aides may have pressed for Bush administration policies downplaying the importance of global warming and opposing contraceptives and abortion in family planning programs.
 Any negotiation about Mr. Wolfowitz's future would probably include a discussion about preserving the prerogative of the United States to choose the next World Bank president. The discussion may also include a compensation package if he resigns, bank officials said. Mr. Wolfowitz's annual salary is $400,000 after taxes, according to bank officials.
 The main event of the day was Mr. Wolfowitz's statement, accompanied by a 17-page submission from his lawyers constituting an extraordinary public rebuttal to accusations that have roiled the bank for three weeks, after his direct role in Ms. Riza's pay package came to light.
 The White House has consistently supported Mr. Wolfowitz, and on Monday, President Bush did so again, though in a low-key manner. 
 ''My position is that he ought to stay,'' Mr. Bush said. ''He ought to be given a fair hearing.'' He said he did not discuss the matter with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. 
 Mrs. Merkel, who was in town for a European Union meeting with Mr. Bush, in a news conference called only for ''a very transparent, very candid conversation'' about Mr. Wolfowitz's future. European officials say Mrs. Merkel favors Mr. Wolfowitz's resignation.
 Mr. Wolfowitz's defense was striking in that it singled out three longtime bank officials as having specifically ordered him to handle Ms. Riza's compensation package himself in 2005. He said they were Roberto Danino, the general counsel; Xavier Coll, vice president for human resources; and Ad Melkert, head of the bank board's ethics committee.
 Mr. Wolfowitz's statement appeared to back up a narrative that critics and supporters at the bank said was underlying the crisis. According to that narrative, those officials essentially wanted to rid themselves of the matter of Ms. Riza, who felt wronged by being asked to sacrifice to make way for Mr. Wolfowitz, and that it was best left to Mr. Wolfowitz to placate her.
 Mr. Wolfowitz said that contrary to the recollections of some officials at the bank, those officials ''surely knew'' of her salary increase. ''Certainly they had access to that information if they wanted it,'' he said.
 ''In sum, in working to resolve the potential conflict of interest that was created by my and Ms. Riza's relationship, I acted transparently, sought and received guidance from the bank's ethics committee, and conducted myself in good faith in accordance with that guidance,'' he said. Ms. Riza's salary, in excess of $190,000, is in the same range as that drawn by about 1,000 other bank employees, Mr. Wolfowitz said. 
 Mr. Melkert, in a statement on Monday, challenged Mr. Wolfowitz's recollections and said he was not aware of the amount of Ms. Riza's compensation when he declared in 2005 and in early 2006 that the matter was settled to his satisfaction. He is to testify before the board's committee on Tuesday, officials said.
 Allegations that Mr. Melkert was ''aware of or had somehow approved the specifics'' of her pay and relocation ''are false,'' said a statement issued by his office at the United Nations Development Program, where he is a top official.
 Late Monday night, Mr. Danino, the former general counsel, also disputed Mr. Wolfowitz's recollection of events, saying he had no role in determining Ms. Riza's salary and believed it was a conflict of interest for the bank president to decide it. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul D. Wolfowitz, at the White House last week, responded defiantly to a bank committee yesterday. (Photo by Mandel Ngan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ETHICS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%) Ethics; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; Paul D Wolfowitz; Shaha Ali Riza

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



15 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The Plankton Defense; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Companies Try a New Way to Counter Global Warming

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 30 

 BODY:
Can plankton help save the planet?
 Some Silicon Valley technocrats are betting that it just might. In an effort to ameliorate the effects of global warming, several groups are working on ventures to grow vast floating fields of plankton intended to absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and carry it to the depths of the ocean. It is an idea, debated by experts for years, that still sounds like science fiction -- and some scholars think that is where it belongs.
But even though many questions remain unanswered, the first commercial project is scheduled to get under way this month when the WeatherBird II, a 115-foot research vessel, heads out from its dock in Florida to the Galapagos and the South Pacific.
 The ship plans to dissolve tons of iron, an essential plankton nutrient, over a 10,000-square-kilometer patch. That's equivalent to 2.47 million acres (3,861 square miles on land or 2,912 square nautical miles). When the trace iron prompts growth and reproduction of the tiny organism, scientists on the WeatherBird II plan to measure how much carbon dioxide the plankton ingests. 
 The idea is similar to planting forests full of carbon-inhaling trees, but in desolate stretches of ocean. ''This is organic gardening, not rocket science,'' said Russ George, the chief executive of Planktos, the company behind the WeatherBird II project. ''Can it possibly be as easy as we say it is? We're about to find out.''
 For Mr. George, this is not just science and environmentalism but business, possibly big business. Around the world, new treaties and regulations are forcing corporations to look for ways to offset their carbon emissions, and Planktos and its competitors may be able to charge millions of dollars for their services.
 And that is where this science project takes on a Silicon Valley twist, and a healthy dose of scientific skepticism. Planktos -- along with Climos, a competitor started by a former dot-com millionaire whose mother is one of the nation's top oceanographers -- wants to commercialize ocean fertilization.
 Their efforts underscore a growing effort to pull carbon from the atmosphere. Solutions include planting or restoring forests and -- once many economic and technical obstacles are overcome -- capturing tons of carbon from coal burning for electricity and oil refineries, piping it back underground or burying it under the ocean. 
 The technological solutions are starting to come from Silicon Valley, where investors and innovators are turning to environmental businesses. They are investing, too, in fossil fuel alternatives like wind, solar and ethanol power.
 The financial returns for reducing carbon could be considerable, said Daniel M. Kammen, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
 In Europe, where there is a market for carbon credits, it is now worth only $2 to offset a ton of carbon emissions. But not long ago, that figure was $35, and it is expected to rise again as the limits imposed under the Kyoto Protocol on global warming start to bite. Planktos believes that it can make a healthy profit if it receives $5 a ton for capturing carbon dioxide.
 ''The cost of offsetting carbon through these technologies is less than the cost of building solar panels or windmills,'' Mr. Kammen said. ''There's no question that this is going to grow,'' he said of various carbon offset strategies.
 But the question in the case of iron fertilization is whether the exuberance and marketing spirit of Silicon Valley and its can-do attitude are getting ahead of scientific reality. And some oceanographic experts say that there is a risk of doing more harm than good from artificially stimulating plankton growth in the ocean. 
 It is widely accepted by scientists that dumping iron in certain areas of the ocean can cause plankton to bloom. But there is considerable skepticism over whether doing so will lead to long-term absorption of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, said Ken Buesseler, senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
 Mr. Buesseler said that while carbon might be absorbed initially, there was ample evidence that when the plankton was eaten or decomposed, at least some of the carbon wound up going back into the atmosphere. The level of absorption depends on how much of the resulting mass of plankton sinks to the sea bed. 
 And some scholars in the field are concerned that creating plankton blooms could release methane and nitrous oxide, which might increase greenhouse gases. ''There are some potentially dangerous side effects,'' said Paul G. Falkowski, professor of geology and marine science at Rutgers University.
 Mr. Buesseler has organized a conference for the fall to bring together the experts in ocean fertilization to assess the years of research in the field and see what might be done to further it. He also wants to explore the policy issues; one unresolved question is whether regulatory bodies will even endorse iron fertilization as a valid means of carbon sequestration that would be allowed under any so-called cap-and-trade system to limit global warming gases. 
 Many scientists, even those who see long-term promise in the approach, worry that the commercial and political pressures are accelerating the programs too quickly. But others say that such pressure might not be an entirely bad thing.
 ''The marketing is pushing us forward faster, saying, 'Damn the science,' '' Mr. Buesseler. But the vastly heightened concerns about global warming that are driving the market, he said, make it worth the effort. ''I'm willing to consider it,'' he said, ''when I consider the consequences of doing nothing.''
 Enter Mr. George, 57, the founder of Planktos, based in Foster City, Calif., just south of San Francisco. After working as an environmental consultant in Canada, Mr. George came up with the Planktos concept in 1997, the same year as the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol, the treaty that the United States declines to participate in, that has driven most carbon-reduction regulations so far.
 In addition to the iron fertilization project, Planktos also has a subsidiary, KlimaFa, which has begun a 10-year project to plant a quarter of a million acres of new forest in Hungary.
 Mr. George said his goal was broader than mitigating carbon emissions. He said he also wanted to restore stores of plankton that had been lost as climate change led to less iron being deposited from the land into oceans.
 The efforts of the WeatherBird II, he said, do not assume that the science is ready for commercialization, but they are intended to provide research that could prove its effectiveness. And he agrees with many scientists and environmentalists that carbon sequestration is only one element in the effort to mitigate global warming, an effort that will still require lowering the use of fossil fuels.
 Still, he asserts that many of his scientific critics are expressing doubts about the commercialization of ocean fertilization because of their own self-interest in maintaining a steady flow of research dollars for their own projects.
 The scientists ''have an enormous vested interest in preserving this as a research topic alone,'' he said. ''If this subject remains in academia for the next 10 or 20 years, it will certainly get a bunch of senior scientists on to retirement age, but it won't do much for the planet.''
 Some prominent scientists, though, are beginning to get involved in the commercialization efforts. One of them is Margaret S. Leinen, former assistant director for geosciences at the National Science Foundation, who is now the chief science officer of Climos.
 Ms. Leinen's connection to Climos is not just professional, but personal. She is the mother of Dan Whaley, the founder of the company. Mr. Whaley made his name and fortune during the dot-com boom, founding Get-There.com, a travel site that went public in 1999 and was bought by Sabre for $750 million in 2000.
 Mr. Whaley has been putting together a panel of scientific advisers, which now includes the former president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the director for the National Center for Atmospheric Research.
 Mr. Whaley declined to discuss the plan or timetable of Climos to do its own commercial project. Nor will he say definitively when and how Climos will provide proof to the market that it can use ocean fertilization to provide a long-term offset to carbon in the atmosphere.
 That did not stop him, though, from a dig at his competitors at Planktos.
 ''Whoever is serious about this needs to engage the participation of and bring along the leaders in the oceanographic community,'' Mr. Whaley said, ''not just sail around throwing iron off the back of a boat.'' The Energy Challenge 
 Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Russ George wants to dissolve iron in the ocean to grow fields of plankton, in part to mitigate carbon emissions. (Photos by Top, Jay Paul for The New York Times
above, Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
The ship will measure how much carbon dioxide is ingested by the plankton. Critics worry that there may be unintended side effects.
 Michael Bailey, left, Melodie Grubbs and Peter Wilcox on the WeatherBird II, a 115-foot research vessel, that will promote plankton growth. (Photographs by Jay Paul for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CARBON OFFSETS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); OCEANS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (70%); BIOFUELS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); LAND RECLAMATION (67%); GARDENING (66%); WIND ENERGY (64%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); ALCOHOLS (60%); ETHANOL (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Weather; Global Warming; Surveys and Series; Carbon Dioxide; Oceans; Research; Iron (Nutrient) ; WeatherBird II (Research Vessel); Weather; Weather

COMPANY: PLANKTOS CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Planktos (Co); Climos (Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541620 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (85%)

PERSON: Russ George; Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Florida; Galapagos Islands; South Pacific Islands

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



16 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: New York Art College Canceled Deal With Lender After Learning of High Interest Rates

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Pratt Institute, a New York art and design college, had a deal in 2005 with a student loan company: The lender would provide grant money for needy students if Pratt students over all took out $1 million or more in loans.
 But last year, Pratt found that the deal was not so good for its student borrowers. 
The company, Education Finance Partners of San Francisco, was charging borrowers 15 percent in interest -- more than double the 6.8 percent rate on some federal loans and higher than what some credit cards charge. Pratt canceled the deal and stopped recommending Education Finance to its students.
 Details of the arrangement, and its cancellation, were disclosed yesterday by Pratt and Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York. 
 Pratt, along with five other colleges, agreed to adopt a code of conduct governing relationships with loan companies. Mr. Cuomo's office, which has been investigating ties between loan companies and universities for months, announced the new agreements yesterday.
 Pratt's findings that its students were being charged such high interest rates are the first evidence to emerge from Mr. Cuomo's inquiry showing how students could have suffered from undisclosed arrangements between universities and lenders that the attorney general has branded a conflict of interest. 
 As numerous cases have emerged of universities' getting payments to steer loan volume to a lender, or of university officials' getting gifts and payments, many college officials have said that the rates offered by recommended lenders were competitive. It appears that in this case, as soon as Pratt learned of the high interest rate, it acted to cancel the relationship with the lender.
 Thomas F. Schutte, president of Pratt, said in a statement released to students and faculty members that he was ''pleased to inform you that Pratt is in complete compliance'' with the code of conduct. 
 Besides Pratt, three New York colleges -- Marist College, Manhattanville College and Mercy College -- agreed to the code of conduct. So did Lewis & Clark College in Oregon and Texas Christian University, which also agreed to pay to student borrowers more than $13,000 that it received from one lender in exchange for greater student loan volume.
 ''Schools and lenders are no longer defending these practices or refusing to recognize the problem,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''They are looking for a solution.'' 
 With the six new colleges, 21 institutions, along with some of the nation's largest student loan companies, have adopted the code of conduct, according to Mr. Cuomo's office, and the New York Senate has passed legislation to put it into law.
 At Pratt, in addition to the arrangement with Education Finance Partners, an employee served on the advisory board and received trips from another lender. Education Finance reached a separate agreement with Mr. Cuomo's office in mid-April, adopting his code of conduct and paying $2.5 million into a fund for education of students and parents about financial aid.
 Mercy College had a contract with Sallie Mae, the nation's largest student lender, to operate a call center on behalf of the financial aid office, Mr. Cuomo's office said, and call center operators did not identify themselves as Sallie Mae employees. 
 At Marist College, employees served on advisory boards to loan companies and received trips. An employee at Manhattanville College received theater tickets from Nelnet, another student loan company, and some lenders provided printing services to the institution.
 Lewis & Clark and Texas Christian both had ''revenue sharing'' agreements, in which Education Finance paid the college based on loan volume. Lewis & Clark has already returned the money.
 Separately, the New York State Higher Education Services Corporation, which administers scholarship programs in New York and that guarantees federal student loans against default, also adopted the code of conduct. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); ETHICS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Ethics; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: Pratt Institute; Education Finance Partners

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%) Andrew M (Atty Gen) Cuomo; Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



17 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Gold Stars And Dunce Caps

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
In this presidential campaign, we need somebody who wants to address the question President Bush once raised: ''Is our children learning?''
 International testing shows that U.S. schools do a lousy job teaching math and science, in particular. And far too many American students aren't going to college or even completing high school, undermining our competitiveness for decades to come.
 Moreover, the U.S. education system reinforces the gulfs of poverty and race. Well-off white kids tend to go to good schools that propel them ahead, while many poor black and Hispanic kids attend bad schools that hold them back. 
 For inspiration, presidential candidates might look at this bold three-part plan for improving American schools:
 End requirements for teacher certification.
 Make tenure more difficult to get so weak teachers can be weeded out after two or three years on the job.
 Award $15,000 annual bonuses to good teachers for as long as they teach at schools in low-income areas.
 Those ideas are cribbed from a provocative report on education from the Hamilton Project, which is affiliated with the Brookings Institution. The report was prepared by Robert Gordon of the Center for American Progress, Thomas Kane of Harvard and Douglas Staiger of Dartmouth, and it fits in with a burst of other research pointing in similar directions.
 In the past, we tried to ensure the quality of teachers through certification procedures. But that has failed. Growing evidence indicates that certification requirements limit the pool of potential teachers -- and discourage midcareer switches into teaching -- without accomplishing much else. 
 ''Teachers vary considerably in the extent to which they promote student learning, but whether a teacher is certified or not is largely irrelevant to predicting their effectiveness,'' concluded a report last year for the National Bureau of Economic Research. 
 The reality is that paper credentials can't predict who will be an effective teacher. A half-dozen studies have found that teachers with graduate degrees aren't any better than teachers without them. Other studies show that teachers who did well on their own SATs, or went to selective colleges or had high G.P.A.'s, don't make significantly better teachers, either.
 Yet teachers still vary tremendously in their effectiveness, as the Hamilton Project study found when it examined results in Los Angeles schools. It looked at the 25 percent of teachers who raised their students' test scores the most, and the 25 percent who raised students' scores the least. A student assigned to a class with a teacher in the top 25 percent could expect -- after just one year -- to be 10 percentile points higher than a similar student with a bottom-tier teacher.
 ''Moving up (or down) 10 percentile points in one year is a massive impact,'' the authors wrote. ''For some perspective, the black-white achievement gap nationally is roughly 34 percentile points. Therefore, if the effects were to accumulate, having a top-quartile teacher rather than a bottom-quartile teacher four years in a row would be enough to close the black-white test score gap.''
 The Hamilton Project study recommends that the weakest 25 percent of new teachers should be denied tenure and eliminated after two or three years on the job (teachers improve a lot in the first two years, but not much after that). That approach, it estimates, would raise students' average test scores by 14 percentile points by the time they graduated. 
 ''There's no decision that school districts make that's more important than the decision regarding who is going to stand in front of the classroom,'' Professor Kane said. ''Yet most districts spend more time choosing textbooks than they do reviewing the performance of teachers on their first few years on the job.'' 
 School reform could also play a major role in fighting poverty and spreading opportunity. One sound proposal is to pay substantial bonuses to get the most effective teachers into schools with low-income students. It's simply unfair for America's neediest students to be continually assigned to the weakest teachers, perhaps consigning them to another generation of poverty. Higher pay will help recruit and retain excellent teachers.
 Neither Democrats nor Republicans have offered much leadership on education. Democrats have been too close to teachers' unions to rock the boat, and Republicans don't invest in education -- so Mr. Bush's No Child Left Behind effort has ended up as an underfinanced mess.
 What we need now is for a presidential candidate to seize these ideas and run with them. Any takers?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Wages and Salaries; Presidential Election of 2008; Tenure; Election Issues; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%) Brookings Institution

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



18 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Washington Wants to Know: Who's on Escort Service List?

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30 

 BODY:
The woman who faces charges of running a prostitution ring in Washington that serviced the prominent and powerful said Monday that she intended to force many of those clients to testify in her behalf. 
 The woman, Deborah Jeane Palfrey, is offering a simple defense to government charges that the escort service she ran for 13 years by telephone from her home in California was actually a straightforward prostitution business.
Although she promoted her business as a legal ''high-end erotic fantasy service,'' she said it was not intended as an exchange of sex for money. She told reporters Monday that her former clients, reported to include a Bush administration economics official and the head of a conservative research group, among others, should confirm that when they are called to testify. 
 If any sexual activity occurred, she said, it was not authorized or intended by her but undertaken independently by her female subcontractors and male clients ''who disobeyed my directives, their signed contracts and participated in illegal behavior.''
 In other words, she is stunned at accusations that sexual activity had taken place between the women who worked for her and the men who paid them about $300 for 90 minutes of their attentions. 
 Washington residents have been mildly titillated by the case but more than mildly curious about the one obvious question: Who were those powerful clients? 
 As for now, the names of only two have been revealed. The most prominent was Randall L. Tobias, a veteran businessman and the top foreign aid adviser in the State Department, who resigned Friday after he acknowledged to ABC News that he was on the list of Ms. Palfrey's clients.
 The other, disclosed on Ms. Palfrey's Web site, was Harlan K. Ullman, a Defense Department consultant best known for coining the phrase ''shock and awe'' to describe the intended effect on Iraq of the war's opening barrage, but the phrase also might well describe his own reaction to being called by reporters on Friday about the disclosure, about which he declined comment. 
 Ms. Palfrey says she does not know the actual names of her clients, just their telephone numbers. She said she gave them to ABC News without compensation so the network could use its resources to match names to the numbers.
 ABC has used the information to prepare a story to be broadcast this Friday on its show ''20/20.'' In a promotion for the segment, ABC said on its Web site Monday that the list includes ''a Bush administration economist, the head of a conservative think tank, a prominent C.E.O., several lobbyists and a handful of military officials'' in addition to Mr. Tobias and Mr. Ullman. The network did not identify the customers by name and a spokesman declined to say whether it would do so Friday.
 Mr. Tobias told reporters that he had used the escort service but said he only received massages.
 Ms. Palfrey said Monday that she felt sorry for Mr. Tobias because of the unwanted attention he had received but was gratified that he supported her account that she had not run a sex-for-money service. She chided him, however, for choosing not to come forward earlier with his ''extremely valuable exculpatory evidence.''
 Ms. Palfrey was in United States District Court on Monday to ask Judge Gladys Kessler to replace her court-selected lawyer, A. J. Kramer, the city's public defender. Judge Kessler said that she could choose another local lawyer, but that the court would not pay the costs for her to retain her choice, Herald Price Fahringer, a New York lawyer well known for his defense work in obscenity cases.
 The indictment accuses Ms. Palfrey of engaging more than 100 women from 1993 to 2006 ''for the purpose of engaging in prostitution activity with male clients, including sexual intercourse and oral sex in exchange for money.'' She made more than $2 million running the operation, known as Pamela Martin and Associates, according to the indictment. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deborah Jeane Palfrey, outside Federal District Court in Washington yesterday, has been charged with running a prostitution ring. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (93%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (90%); TESTIMONY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MEN (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); WEB SITES (63%) Prostitution; Prostitution

PERSON: Deborah Jeane Palfrey; Randall L Tobias; Harlan K Ullman; Neil A Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) Washington (DC) ; California

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



19 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Secularism and Democracy in Turkey

 BODY:
The long struggle between Turkey's generals -- the self-appointed custodians of secularism -- and the growing popularity of parties rooted in Islam has taken a dangerous turn. Both sides need to step back from the brink for the sake of Turkey's democracy and its hopes of joining the European Union. 
 The crisis came to a head last week after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his Islamic-oriented party nominated Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul to be Turkey's next president. In that position, Mr. Gul would have the power to nominate judges and university deans and to approve or veto nominations to the cabinet and other sensitive government positions. Mr. Gul is a moderate, but his wife is well known for wearing the Islamic head scarf in public, which offends the military's rigidly unyielding vision of secularism. Army leaders responded to the nomination with an unmistakable threat to overthrow the democratically elected government.
Turkish democracy has outgrown this kind of army tutelage, which has brought it four military coups since 1960. The European Union has rightly denounced this latest threat. But the Bush administration has equivocated. Washington needs to tell Turkey's generals, through diplomatic and NATO channels, that a military coup would have highly damaging consequences. 
 While the generals' threats are out of line, the fears of Turkey's secularists are real and understandable. Turkish citizens, particularly Turkish women, enjoy legal rights, intellectual freedoms and economic opportunities that are regrettably rare elsewhere in the Muslim world. Hundreds of thousands of Turks marched this weekend in Istanbul and Ankara to demonstrate their support for secularism and their anxieties about Mr. Gul. 
 Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Gul need to address these concerns. One useful step would be for Mr. Erdogan's party to run a more politically and religiously inclusive set of candidates in parliamentary elections, which seem likely later this year.
 During the cold war, Turkey guarded Europe's frontier against Soviet expansionism. Today, it occupies an equally important position as a true Muslim democracy on Europe's frontier with the Islamic world. Washington has a clear interest in helping Turkey keep its democratic balance. It needs to leave Turkey's generals in no doubt where it stands. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); ARMIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); COUPS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); VETO (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%) Editorials; Church-State Relations; Elections; Islam; United States International Relations; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (79%); ABDULLAH GUL (79%) Recep Tayyip (Prime Min) Erdogan; Abdullah (Min) Gul; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%) Turkey

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



20 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Interpreting Some Overlooked Stories From the South

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
The gripping black-and-white photographs of civil rights protesters in the South reflect the black-and-white morality tale that generally accompanies them. Hateful, jeering white mobs and attack dogs versus peaceful marchers asking to vote and to walk in the front door. 
 That story line is true, but so are others. A new generation of historians is exploring some of the untold stories of the civil rights movement and its legacies: the experiences not of heroes or murderous villains, but of ordinary Southern whites. And their research is challenging some long-held beliefs about the nation's political realignment and the origins of modern conservatism.
''You want to pry below these great narratives of good and evil and black and white,'' said Jason Sokol, 29, who wrote ''There Goes My Everything: White Southerners in the Age of Civil Rights, 1945-1975'' (Alfred A. Knopf). ''For those of us who didn't live through it, there's more of an effort to not simply celebrate the civil rights movement and how extraordinary it was, but to place it within the broader arc of the 20th century.'' 
 This new wave of historians, many of them young, believe that one cannot understand today's housing, schooling, economic development or political patterns without understanding the mostly apolitical white Southerners of that era. None of these scholars play down the inbred racism of the region, but they argue that the focus on race can obscure broader economic and demographic changes, like the dizzying corporate growth, the migration of white Northerners to the South and the shifting emphasis on class interests after legal segregation ended. 
 The conventional wisdom, said Jacquelyn Hall, director of the Southern Oral History Project at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is that the general backlash to the civil rights movement ''was exported out of the South to the rest of the country,'' and that the Republican Party benefited from the shift. But she said a raft of new scholarship is showing ''the strength of the Republican Party in the South is linked to the economic boom in the South.'' Corporations moved down to the once-solidly Democratic South and brought with them traditional suburban Republican voters. Their interests matched up with a growing neo-conservatism in the North. ''What's going on is much more a regional convergence story as opposed to the South influencing the rest of the country,'' she said.
 Conservative appeals to limit the government's reach and emphasize individual freedoms resonated not only in the South, but in the North as well, said Joseph Crespino, 35, whose book, ''In Search of Another Country: Mississippi and the Conservative Counterrevolution'' (Princeton University Press), was just published. 
 The racial and religious conservatism of whites, for instance, ''converged in unexpected ways in the fight over federal tax policy toward Southern private schools,'' Mr. Crespino writes. He said that while many Southern whites set up ''segregation academies'' for the sole purpose of avoiding school integration, others were genuinely interested in sending their children to church schools for religious reasons. ''By the late '70s, this issue of defending church schools against harassment by the federal government and the I.R.S.,'' Mr. Crespino explained in an interview, led to the ''mobilization of evangelical and fundamentalist Christians.''
 Mr. Crespino, who grew up in rural Mississippi, said his research was partly inspired by his experience. Many of the African-Americans he met in the deeply segregated precincts of Chicago while he was an undergraduate at Northwestern University had come from his home state and were struggling with the same issues they had had down South. ''Rather than treating white Mississipians as these racist pariahs in larger postwar liberal America, I wanted to treat them as part of a broader popular reaction against modern liberalism,'' he said. ''I wanted to show how central the resistance to civil rights policies were in shaping modern conservative policies.'' 
 Mr. Sokol also found the truisms not always to be true. ''Everything I had read said that the urban South -- Atlanta, Nashville, Raleigh -- was more progressive than rural backwaters,'' he said. Though that is true to a point, Mr. Sokol said, he found ''plenty of instances of retrograde racism in urban areas and the Upper South,'' as well as ''stunning changes in places which in the popular imagination are the worst places in the South.'' 
 Like Mr. Crespino, Matthew D. Lassiter was motivated to research his own Southern roots. He found a gap between the history he had learned in school and his experience growing up in its wake in Sandy Springs, a white, middle-class suburb of Atlanta. ''I was trying to find my own people, my parents and grandparents,'' said Mr. Lassiter, 36, who wrote ''The Silent Majority: Suburban Politics in the Sunbelt South'' (Princeton) published last year. ''There were a few white Southerners who were liberals, a larger number throwing the rocks with the rioters and the vast group in the middle were left out of the story.'' 
 As a graduate student at the University of Virginia, he taught undergraduates and assigned the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''Letter From Birmingham Jail,'' in which he wrote, ''I have almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negro's great stumbling block in his stride towards freedom is not the White Citizen's Counciler or the Ku Klux Klanner, but the white moderate, who is more devoted to 'order' than justice.'' 
 Mr. Lassiter, who now teaches history at the University of Michigan, said: ''Who are these moderates? They don't seem to be participating, yet they're completely complicit in the system of Jim Crow.'' 
 Mr. Lassiter's book looks at how the federal government subsidized white flight to the suburbs, where middle-class whites could embrace colorblind values but still maintain all-white enclaves and schools. ''When you look at suburbs and middle class, then you start getting a national story,'' he said. ''White suburbs outside Charlotte are reacting the same as white suburbs outside Los Angeles or in New Jersey.''
 Kevin M. Kruse, who grew up in Nashville and now teaches at Princeton University, focuses more on rank-and-file segregationists than moderates. In his 2005 book, ''White Flight: Atlanta and the Making of Modern Conservatism'' (Princeton), he argues that in moving to the suburbs, ''white Southern conservatives were forced to abandon their traditional, populist, and often starkly racist demagoguery, and instead craft a new conservatism predicated on a language of rights, freedoms, and individualism.''
 That Southern whites have become the leading edge of academic research is not all that surprising, Mr. Crespino explained: ''The first generation of scholarship looked at key figures and key organizations. The second generation focused on recovering the roots of the movement, and telling the story of African-Americans. '' 
 ''One of the topics that was left to the side,'' he said, ''was white Southerners and their resistance to the movement and its implications for national policy.''
 Taylor Branch, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of a trilogy on King, suggested that another reason for the long neglect of this group has been the difficulty in getting ordinary white Southerners to tell their stories. ''I do think that subject is one of the harder ones to write about because those people are quite reticent and not that prominent,'' he said, referring to people he knew from his own childhood growing up in Atlanta. The subject of civil rights made ''otherwise intelligent people seem evasive.''
 James C. Cobb, a senior historian at the University of Georgia, has written several books about the South and praises the new scholarship. Although he said some people may perceive this work as an apologia, there is now generally ''more ideological leeway to go back and see how white people behaved during this period.'' Still, he warned, ''You have to be very careful'' not to make this inquiry a justification of veiled racism. ''We can go overboard in downplaying the racial angle,'' he said. After all, while opposition to busing may not stem from racism, he said, the effects on blacks are the same. 
 Although the scholarly books published in the last couple of years focus on widely different areas -- metropolitan power centers, rural backwaters, employment practices, schools -- nearly all make the same point: The idea that the South is exceptional, a region apart from the rest of the country, is no longer true. Though the thesis discomfits some professors of Southern history, Mr. Kruse argues ''a lot of those regional differences have really dropped out the closer we get to the present day.'' 
 It may turn out that what is most distinctive about the latest research on the South is its claim that the South is no longer distinctive. Mr. Lassiter's and Mr. Crespino's latest project is editing a book titled ''The End of Southern History.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A class in Arkansas, integrated but sparsely attended, in October 1955. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. E1)
 The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at the head of a civil rights march in Albany, Ga., on Dec. 16, 1961. (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis, from ''There Goes My Everything: White Southerners in the Age of Civil Rights, 1945-1975'')(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); DOGS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (62%) Blacks; Civil Rights; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Blacks

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) Patricia Cohen; Jason Sokol; Joseph Crespino; Matthew D Lassiter

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, GA, USA (59%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



21 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13 Israeli Premier Rebuked Over War Against Lebanon An Israeli government commission excoriated Prime Minister Ehud Olmert for ''severe failures'' in the war against Lebanon, setting off a debate on whether he should remain in office. A1 5 Guilty in London Bomb Plan A jury found five British Muslim men guilty of planning fertilizer bomb attacks around London, after a yearlong trial that for the first time revealed evidence linking the plotters and two of the men who blew themselves up on London's transit system in July 2005. A1 Sunni Threat to Pull Ministers The largest bloc of Sunni Arabs in the Iraqi Parliament threatened to withdraw its ministers from the cabinet over their government's failure to deal with Sunni concerns. President Bush stepped in, inviting one of Iraq's two vice-presidents to Washington. A1 Wolfowitz Hints at Resignation Paul D. Wolfowitz defended himself, declaring that it would be ''unjust and frankly hypocritical'' for the World Bank's board to find him guilty of ethical lapses. 
He hinted that he would discuss resigning if the board cleared him of misconduct. A3 U.S. Military Jailer in Iraq on Trial A senior commander in the American military's main detention center in Baghdad testified at a military hearing that his predecessor, Lt. Col. William H. Steele, gave gifts to the daughter of a high-value detainee, breaching military law. A10 NATIONAL A14-21 Another Round of Rallies To Protest Deportations Last year, hoping to influence Congress to adopt legislation making illegal immigrants legal, hundreds of thousands of immigrants held marches and work stoppages nationwide. There will be another round of marches and rallies, but this time immigrants will also be protesting a surge in deportations. A1 Drilling Expansion Is Proposed The Bush administration proposed leasing out millions of acres along the coasts of Alaska and Virginia to oil and gas drillers, a move that would end a long-standing ban on drilling in those environmentally sensitive areas. A21 Senate Debates Drug Bill The Senate began debate on legislation that could fundamentally change the way the Food and Drug Administration operates by providing it with more power and more money to ensure that drugs are as safe as advertised. A18 Court Rules in Favor of Police The police did not violate a speeding driver's rights by ramming his car and causing an accident that left him permanently paralyzed, the Supreme Court ruled. A16 Client List Is Sought The woman who faces charges of running a prostitution ring in Washington that serviced the prominent and powerful said that she intended to force many of those clients to testify in her behalf. A20 NEW YORK/REGION A22-23 First Gambling Court Does a Brisk Business Defendants at the country's first and only gambling treatment court, in Amherst, a Buffalo suburb, can avoid jail time by following a court-supervised program that includes counseling, credit checks and regular meetings with a judge. Mirroring the rise in gambling nationally, the court's caseload has grown steadily since it opened in 2001. A1 Subway Deaths Halt Work More than 20 subway maintenance projects were put on hold as transit officials ordered all work on subway tracks, signals and tunnels halted for at least 48 more hours in response to the recent deaths of two track workers. B1 An Apology for New Jersey Gov. Jon S. Corzine apologized to New Jerseyans as he left a hospital in Camden 18 days after a devastating traffic accident in which he was not wearing a seat belt and was being driven at more than 91 miles on the Garden State Parkway. B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-13 F.D.A. Labeled Unprepared Last year, Food and Drug Administration inspectors sampled just 20,662 food shipments out of more than 8.9 million that arrived at American ports. Now critics in Washington are warning that the agency is understaffed and under-funded. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A22-23 Editorials: To: the temporarily able-bodied; secularism and democracy in Turkey; help, by the book; Law Day. Columns: Atul Gawande, Nicholas D. Kristof. Crossword E2 TV Listings E9 Weather B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); DEPORTATION (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); MILITARY COURTS (76%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (74%); MISCONDUCT (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); ETHICS (71%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (70%); VEHICLE SEARCH (68%); PROSTITUTION (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); US FDA REFORM (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



22 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Court Backs Police Officers In Chase That Hurt Driver

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30 

 BODY:
The police did not violate a speeding driver's rights by ramming his car and causing an accident that left him permanently paralyzed, the Supreme Court ruled on Monday by a vote of 8 to 1.
 Writing for the majority, Justice Antonin Scalia said that despite the fact that the 19-year-old driver was suspected of nothing more than speeding, the decision to force him off the road was reasonable in light of the need to protect pedestrians and other drivers from ''a Hollywood-style car chase of the most frightening sort.''
The justices took the unusual step -- a first for the court -- of posting on the court's Web site the 15-minute video of the chase, recorded by a camera mounted on the squad car's dashboard. A link to the video in the case, Scott v. Harris, No. 05-1631, is at supremecourtus.gov/opinions/06slipopinion.html. 
 Justice Scalia said the videotape demonstrated the danger posed by the efforts of the driver, Victor Harris, to elude the police on a narrow and winding Georgia road. Justice Scalia added that the federal appeals court in Atlanta, which ruled that Mr. Harris was entitled to a jury trial on his constitutional claims against the sheriff's deputy who forced him off the road, should have viewed the tape with more care rather than accept Mr. Harris's version of how the chase proceeded.
 Mr. Harris's benign description of his actions during the chase, which according to Justice Scalia gave the impression that he was ''attempting to pass his driving test'' rather than fleeing the police, was ''blatantly contradicted by the record so that no reasonable jury could believe it,'' the justice said.
 The lone dissenter, Justice John Paul Stevens, said that to the contrary, jurors could well have concluded that the late-night chase endangered no pedestrians, since there were none, and no other motorists, since the police sirens warned other cars to pull off the road. ''The Court has usurped the jury's fact-finding function,'' Justice Stevens said, adding that ''whether a person's actions have risen to a level warranting deadly force is a question of fact best reserved for a jury.''
 With evident sarcasm, Justice Stevens referred to the other justices as ''my colleagues on the jury.'' He said that while Mr. Harris's offense -- speeding, refusing to stop and fleeing -- was a serious one, ''it was not, however, a capital offense, or even an offense that justified the use of deadly force rather than an abandonment of the chase.''
 The constitutional issue in the case concerned the Fourth Amendment, which prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures. There was no dispute that Sheriff's Deputy Timothy Scott ''seized'' Mr. Harris, in constitutional terms, when he rammed his car from behind, sending it down an embankment. The resulting accident left Mr. Harris a quadriplegic.
 The question, as in any Fourth Amendment case, was whether the seizure was ''reasonable'' under the circumstances. Mr. Harris sued the deputy for damages, and the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, held that he was entitled to have his case heard by a jury. The appeals court said that a jury could find that the case was governed by a 1985 Supreme Court precedent on the use of deadly force by the police against a fleeing suspect and that the jury could reasonably find that the police behavior in this case was unreasonable.
 In the earlier case, the Supreme Court found that the police acted unreasonably in shooting a suspected burglar in the back as he fled the crime scene. But that case could not govern this one, Justice Scalia said, because while the unarmed burglary suspect did not, in his flight, pose a threat to the public, Mr. Harris's behavior posed ''an extreme danger to human life.''
 Originally clocked at 73 miles an hour on a 55 m.p.h. four-lane road, Mr. Harris led the police on a 10-mile chase over two-lane roads at speeds of up to 83 m.p.h. 
 Justice Scalia said the rule of the case was that ''a police officer's attempt to terminate a dangerous high-speed car chase that threatens the lives of innocent bystanders does not violate the Fourth Amendment, even when it places the fleeing motorist at risk of serious injury or death.''
 In response to Mr. Harris's argument that the police had his license number and could have avoided more danger by abandoning the chase, Justice Scalia said that such an outcome would give a ''perverse incentive'' to fleeing motorists who would ''get away whenever they drive so recklessly that they put other people's lives in danger.'' In any event, Justice Scalia said, it was Mr. Harris ''who intentionally placed himself and the public in danger'' and gave the police ''the choice between two evils'' that they confronted.
 It is obvious in the videotape that Deputy Scott and the other officers involved in the chase were taken aback by its devastating end. Worried voices can be heard calling to Mr. Harris and summoning an ambulance.
 These were among the court's other actions on a busy Monday.
 By a 6 to 3 vote, the court held that a local government can constitutionally channel the disposal of all solid waste generated within its borders to a government-run landfill. The question in the case, from upstate New York, was whether such a requirement, often called a ''flow-control ordinance,'' amounts to an unconstitutional restriction on interstate commerce.
 In 1994, the court ruled in a New York case that a flow-control ordinance was unconstitutional if its object was to channel waste to a private facility. Governments had attempted to do this to keep commercial landfills viable and to avoid having to make up any revenue shortfalls, as was usually called for in contracts. The court found then that these ordinances amounted to impermissible economic protectionism.
 The question in the new case, United Haulers Association v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority, No. 05-1345, was whether it made a difference if the facility was government-run. It did, the court held in an opinion by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. ''Disposing of trash has been a traditional government activity for years,'' the chief justice said, ''and laws that favor the government in such areas -- but treat every private business, whether in-state or out-of-state, exactly the same -- do not discriminate against interstate commerce for purposes of the Commerce Clause.''
 The decision affirmed a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Manhattan. A trade organization of trash haulers had sued the waste management authority, set up by New York State at the behest of Oneida and Herkimer Counties, for requiring them to dispose of their trash at much higher fees than they were being charged at other nearby facilities, $86 a ton compared with $37 to $55. Chief Justice Roberts said there were ''compelling reasons'' to find a constitutional protection for a government-run disposal program. He said the Commerce Clause ''is not a roving license for federal courts to decide what activities are appropriate for state and local government to undertake, and what activities must be the province of private market competition. 
 In another action, the court turned, without comment, down the latest appeals by two Guantanamo detainees, Salim A. Hamdan and Omar Khadr. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, David H. Souter, and Stephen G. Breyer dissented, as they had earlier this month. The case was Hamdan v. Gates, No. 06-1169.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPEED LIMITS (90%); VEHICLE SEARCH (90%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); SHERIFFS (78%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); CAPITAL CRIMES (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%) 

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



23 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Secular Parties Vow to Battle Prime Minister In Turkish Vote

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, April 30 

 BODY:
Turkey's secular political leaders promised Monday to mount a unified challenge to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in what are likely to be early national elections. The country's financial markets, meanwhile, dropped sharply. 
 Turkey has slid into a political confrontation between its secular establishment, backed by its powerful military, and a new group of political modernizers led by Mr. Erdogan, whose roots are in political Islam.
 The standoff started Friday, when secular political parties appealed to the country's highest court to block Mr. Erdogan's choice for president, a close political ally, Abdullah Gul. Later that night, the military, which has ousted four elected governments since 1960, issued a stern warning.
 The presidency is the highest secular post in the country, and the prospect of a candidate whose background is in political Islam occupying it is deeply disturbing to some Turks.
 But the specter of a military coup is also alarming, a concern that Turkey's financial markets registered Monday. The Turkish lira fell 2.4 percent, the most in seven months, Bloomberg News reported. The stock market dropped 4 percent, erasing almost $8 billion in value.
 Deniz Baykal, leader of the largest secular party, the Republican People's Party, called for secular parties to join together to mount a unified front to compete with Mr. Erdogan.
 ''I see this as a necessity for all powers that believe in Ataturk's principles and the unity of the republic,'' he said -- referring to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the visionary who founded the Turkish state in 1923 -- at a news conference that was broadcast on television. ''The remedy is the unification of all powers that wish to eliminate this danger.'' 
 But Turkey's secular political parties are fractured and weak, and it remains to be seen whether they are up to the task of uniting to compete with Mr. Erdogan's broadly popular Justice and Development Party.
 Erkan Mumcu, leader of another secular party, Motherland, said in a press conference of his own that the only way to avoid political confrontation was for Mr. Erdogan to back down on Mr. Gul's candidacy.
 The constitutional court deliberated over the case on Monday, and is expected to hand down a ruling on Tuesday or Wednesday. If the court rules in favor of the secular parties, it is expected that Mr. Erdogan will call for early elections. Voting is currently scheduled for the fall.
 It is unclear whether the military will intervene, a possibility that already is being condemned by international observers, including the European Union that Turkey has worked so hard to join.
 In Washington on Monday, Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said, ''We have real confidence in Turkey's democracy and we have confidence in their constitutional processes and that all the parties involved in the election of the new Turkish president will abide by those constitutional processes.''
 Mr. Erdogan, in a speech to the nation on Monday night, avoided mentioning the political troubles, instead appealing for Turks to come together. ''Turkey needs this togetherness, this unity, this love that has been freed of prejudices,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); COUPS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); CHURCH & STATE (65%) Islam; Church-State Relations; Elections; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (91%); ABDULLAH GUL (79%) Sabrina Tavernise; Recep Tayyip (Prime Min) Erdogan; Abdullah Gul

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (74%) TURKEY (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Turkey; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



24 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STATEHOUSE JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: A Governor Truly Tightens His Belt

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SALEM, Ore., April 27 

 BODY:
He swore off beer, had to put the pricey organic bananas back on the supermarket shelf and squeezed four meals out of a single chicken, all in the name of reducing hunger. And this is not even an election year. 
 Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski's decision to live on $3 a day in grocery money for a week, as he had been urged to do in an Oregon ''food stamp challenge,'' could confound the surest cynic. At 66, he was just elected to his second term, with a budget surplus surpassing $1 billion and a legislature controlled by his fellow Democrats. So just what was there to gain politically? 
For a governor who has long pushed to reduce hunger and happens to like eating peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, maybe that was not the point.
 As Wayne Scott, the leader of the House Republicans, put it: ''Obviously I'm in the opposite party, so it would be easy for me to knock him for this. Now, I don't know that I fully believe that he's eating on $21 a week, but I do think he's trying to bring attention to the food stamp issue. He's a pretty straight shooter.''
 Mr. Kulongoski, who said he had not tried to skirt a strict limit of $21 for the week -- the average amount allowed Oregon food stamp recipients -- claimed that his only goal had been to raise awareness of hunger here and of a need for the federal government to preserve the current level of stamp benefits.
 Along the way, however, the governor, little known outside the state, also raised awareness of himself. News organizations across the country picked up coverage of his shopping expedition to his local grocery store, where he was guided by a state worker who had temporarily relied on food stamps. Calls came in from Europe. Hundreds of people sent e-mail messages to the main sponsor of the challenge, the Oregon Food Bank, saying they too had been inspired to give it a try. 
 By the end of the week, not only had Mr. Kulongoski's relatively spare entry on Wikipedia been updated to reflect the developments, there was also a sense that the 5-foot-9, 155-pound governor had set a high standard for other elected leaders who profess to care about the needy. In Washington, the House Hunger Caucus asked members of Congress to undertake a similar challenge in May. Closer to home, Mr. Kulongoski noted, one of his West Coast counterparts would have a particularly tough act to follow. ''I think Arnold probably has a larger caloric intake than I do,'' he said.
 Mr. Kulongoski has made hunger an issue since he was first elected in 2002. That fall, he said in an interview, he was surprised to learn that Oregon ranked high on the list of what the Department of Agriculture used to call hunger and now calls ''food insecurity.'' Oregon's timber and agricultural industries had long been struggling, driving up unemployment, and the high-tech boom that had benefited places like Portland had started to unravel.
 Since then, the state has fallen lower on the list, thanks to an improving economy and federal policies that allow it to expand eligibility for food stamps, said Michael Leachman, a policy analyst for the Oregon Center for Public Policy, which advocates for lower-income people.
 Still, Oregon continues to have a higher unemployment rate, at 5.2 percent, than that of the country as a whole, 4.4 percent. High-tech jobs are growing again in Portland, but the timber industry continues to decline. ''We have a very pronounced rural-urban split,'' said William Lunch, a professor of political science at Oregon State University.
 Under a farm bill now before Congress, advocates for the hungry say, the rules that allow expanded eligibility for food stamps could be restricted, potentially disqualifying about 50,000 of the 434,000 Oregonians who use them. On Friday, Mr. Kulongoski sent a letter to President Bush asking him to preserve the current benefits.
 The governor, a former labor lawyer, state insurance commissioner, state attorney general and member of the Oregon Supreme Court, noted more than once during his week on the low-cost diet that he grew up an orphan in a Catholic boys home in St. Louis. He said Friday that he had learned to clean his plate no matter what was on it.
 With Mr. Kulongoski and his wife, Mary Oberst, limited to $42 between them, what was on the plate became distinctly familiar. Ms. Oberst, who typically does their cooking -- the governor has no kitchen staff -- released a to-the-penny menu midway through the week that showed a single chicken surfacing first with zucchini on the side, and then later in salad and a ''chowder.''
 [The couple returned to their regular diet on Sunday afternoon. In a brief telephone interview on Monday, the governor said that eating less had clearly affected him. ''I went to bed earlier,'' he said, ''because I was tired at the end of the day.'' He also said he had missed his stash of Northwest microbrews.] 
 How much do the Kulongoskis usually spend on food? Hard to say. The governor's office puts it at just $55 a week, but that is for at-home meals only. Not included are things they eschewed during the challenge: meals at official functions, dinners out, and lunches and snacks bought on the job.
 For all the public fascination with the governor's menu, there did not appear to be immediate benefits for his policy agenda. Mr. Kulongoski's proposal to provide health insurance to children by raising the cigarette tax failed in an initial vote during the week, though he said he believed that it would pass before the legislature adjourns in June. His plan to expand financing for community colleges has also stalled for now.
 Asked if his lean week had bolstered his political heft, he said: ''I don't think it makes any difference. I've been in this for 35 years, and these things all pass. Next week they may not remember me being on the diet, but something will stay in the mind about hunger in Oregon.'' 
 1 jar of grape jelly: 1.89
 Peanut butter: 4.39 Food used mostly for breakfast 1 large container of plain yogurt: 1.25
 1 box of granola: 2.99 3 bananas: 0.66 Honey: 3.20 Orange juice: 1.19 Coffee: 4.00 Half-and-half: 0.89 (Source by Governor's office) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: For a week of food, Governor Kulongoski limited himself to $21, the average for Oregonians on food stamps. (Photo by Thomas Patterson/Statesman Journal, via Associated Press) Chart: ''What They Ate: A Week of Food for Two'' Having decided to live on $3 a day in grocery money, Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski of Oregon spent $20.97 on a week's worth of food. With his wife doing likewise, their budget for the week was $42. Food used mostly for dinner MEAT 1 small chicken: 3.06 PRODUCE 1 can of kidney beans: 0.49 1 can of corn: 0.50 1 can of tomatoes: 0.59 1 can of garbanzo beans: 0.79 1 carrot: 0.34 2 onions: 0.50 2 zucchini: 1.10 1 10-lb. bag of potatoes: 0.99 Lettuce: 0.99 Cabbage: 0.85 PASTA 2 Cup-O-Noodles: 0.67 3 boxes of macaroni and cheese: 1.00 Macaroni: 0.99 OTHER Pie crust: 0.89 Pesto: 1.90 Salad dressing: 1.19 DAIRY 1 gallon of milk: 1.00 1 package of imitation cheese slices: 0.99 Eggs: 1.09 Food used mostly for lunch 1 loaf of bread: 1.00

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUDGETS (71%) Food; Food Stamps; News and News Media; Food

ORGANIZATION: House Hunger Caucus

PERSON: TED KULONGOSKI (90%) William Yardley; Theodore R (Gov) Kulongoski

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (95%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Oregon

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



25 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 MAJOR PATENT RULING -- The Supreme Court, in its most significant patent ruling in years, made it more difficult to get a patent on new products that combine elements of existing inventions. [Page C1.] SAFEGUARDING FOOD -- As Food and Drug Administration inspectors head to China to investigate contaminated pet food, critics in Washington are warning that the agency is wholly understaffed and underfunded to safeguard America's food supply. [C1.] DELTA EXITS BANKRUPTCY -- Delta Air Lines has emerged from bankruptcy protection after cutting billions in costs during a 19-month reorganization. Its board must now find a new chief executive to replace Gerald Grinstein, above, and decide whether to sell or spin off Comair, its regional feeder carrier. 
[C6.] LURE OF LASALLE -- For Bank of America and the Royal Bank of Scotland, acquiring LaSalle Bank of Chicago would offer each an efficient way to gain a strong foothold there and throughout the Midwest, where LaSalle has 140 branches. [C1.] QUESTIONABLE TECHNIQUE -- An accounting technique called gain on sale is haunting New Century Financial, a subprime mortgage lender now facing bankruptcy and investigations by federal prosecutors and securities regulators. [C1.] PROMISE OF PLANKTON -- Some Silicon Valley technocrats are betting plankton can save the planet. Several groups are working on ventures to grow vast floating fields of plankton that could absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and carry it to the depths of the ocean. [C1.] WOLFOWITZ DEFENDS HIMSELF -- Paul D. Wolfowitz, the president of the World Bank, told bank directors it would be unfair and hypocritical to dismiss him, but he hinted he might be willing to resign if he was cleared of any misconduct. [A3.] HALLIBURTON DENIES BREAKING LAW -- A Halliburton executive insisted during a Senate hearing concerning the company's business dealings in Iran that it had done nothing wrong. [A6.] DEBATE OVER CHANGES FOR F.D.A. -- he Senate debated legislation that could fundamentally change the way the F.D.A. operates by providing it with more power and more money to insure that drugs are as safe as advertised. [A18.] AN ENERGY CHALLENGE -- With the increasing use of coal inevitable, clearing a hurdle to burn it on a big scale -- separating the carbon dioxide and sequestering it -- could turn out to be one of the major engineering challenges of the century. [Science, F3.] CHINESE WEB COMPANY TO GO PUBLIC -- China's leading e-commerce company, Alibaba.com, is planning to go public later this year in what could be the biggest initial public offering there for an Internet company. [C10.] GROUP CRITICIZES WAL-MART -- Human Rights Watch contends that Wal-Mart's efforts to keep out labor unions have often violated federal law and infringed on workers' rights. Wal-Mart, with more than 1.3 million workers at nearly 4,000 stores in the United States, strongly defended its practices. [C3.] UPDATING 'OL' LONELY' -- The Maytag repairman, who started appearing in national commercials in 1967, is becoming more active and gregarious in a change meant to update the concept of ''Ol' Lonely'' for a new generation of shoppers. [C3.] GOOGLE RESPONDS TO VIACOM SUIT -- In an initial response to the lawsuit filed in United States District Court in Manhattan, Google says Viacom's $1 billion copyright infringement suit over video clips on YouTube is unfounded and ought to be dismissed. [C2.] PROFIT DECLINES AT VERIZON -- Verizon's profit declined in the first quarter, but the company continued to have strong growth in wireless and broadband subscriptions as it begins to offer Internet and television services. [C2.] GOOD NEWS FOR TWO TABLOIDS -- With the exception of two New York tabloids that showed solid gains -- The New York Post and The Daily News -- newspaper circulation continued a sharp decline nationally, new figures show. [C10.] KELLOGG'S EARNINGS RISE -- Kellogg's first-quarter earnings climbed 17 percent, helped by stronger snack sales and a tax benefit. The company, which makes food like cereal, cookies and waffles, also raised its full-year outlook. Kellogg's North American sales rose 7 percent as revenue rose 9 percent. Excluding the tax benefit, earnings were 70 cents a share. [C11.] DEUTSCHE BORSE BUYS EXCHANGE -- The German stock exchange operator Deutsche Borse has agreed to buy International Securities Exchange Holdings, an options exchange in New York that is the largest after the Chicago Board Options Exchange, for $2.8 billion. [C10.] WHEN THE BACKUP FAILS -- When the editorial computer system crashed at Business 2.0, a Time Inc. magazine that has written about the importance of backing up computer files, its back-up server failed to do its job. Luckily, the monthly magazine has been able to recover. [C11.] LESSONS FOR HEDGE FUNDS -- Hedge and equity funds are discovering the they may need to develop a credible public persona to capitalize on the keen interest in their high-returning funds and to go public. [C10.] WHEN TRAVELING, TAKE FOOD -- Dieticians and nutritionists recommend taking along a stash of food, which can help relieve stress if you should get stuck on the tarmac. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: Photo Garph tracks share prices of Kellogg for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENT LAW (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); AIRLINES (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PET FOODS (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (52%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (55%); ALIBABA.COM LTD (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (55%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (55%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007



26 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Former World Bank Officials Detail Discord Over Wolfowitz

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1 

 BODY:
Two former top officials at the World Bank have issued new statements disputing the contention of Paul D. Wolfowitz, the bank president, that they and others knew about his actions on behalf of his companion, who was employed there when he joined the bank in 2005, according to testimony released Monday night and Tuesday.
 The officials' testimony, providing new details of their conversations with Mr. Wolfowitz two years ago, laid bare the extraordinary discord at the highest levels of the bank after Mr. Wolfowitz became president. 
At issue was how Mr. Wolfowitz should handle the possibility of a conflict of interest resulting from his relationship with Shaha Ali Riza, who had been with the bank for seven years when he arrived.
 Mr. Wolfowitz ended up helping to arrange a pay raise, promotion and transfer to the State Department for Ms. Riza, along with a path toward future promotions and salary increases, causing a furor among bank officials who charge that these were arranged without regard to normal bank rules.
 Bank officials said the committee looking into Mr. Wolfowitz's conduct was winding up the testimony and would draft a report to the board of directors this week. They said the board would then decide what to do -- for example, whether to reprimand Mr. Wolfowitz -- early next week.
 There was no sign, meanwhile, that either side was following up the hints of a possible negotiated deal in which Mr. Wolfowitz might be cleared of ethical misconduct in return for his resignation as president. Indeed, the testimony of the two former officials seemed likely to complicate any desire by the bank's board to find a way out of the crisis by somehow siding with Mr. Wolfowitz and judging his conduct to have been in good faith and in accordance with bank rules.
 Mr. Wolfowitz, in his own testimony to the committee, said Monday that he had cleared his steps with relevant officials and that they knew, or should have known, the details of his arrangements at the time.
 On Tuesday, Ad Melkert, former head of the bank board's ethics committee, appeared before the committee and said he was ''deeply hurt by efforts to manipulate information'' by Mr. Wolfowitz and his supporters, according to testimony released by the United Nations Development Program, where he now works.
 Mr. Melkert, a Dutch political figure active in the Labor Party in the Netherlands, said that instead of arranging for the salary and promotion package, Mr. Wolfowitz should have given the job in question to someone neutral.
 When he initially approved what Mr. Wolfowitz had done, Mr. Melkert said, he ''naturally assumed'' that the bank president had acted ''in accordance with the bank's rules and normal procedures.'' In February 2006, he said, he again reviewed the facts and declared the matter closed, without knowing all ''terms and conditions.'' 
 Responding to Mr. Melkert's testimony, Mr. Wolfowitz's lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, said in an interview that his client was ''very disappointed'' that Mr. Melkert ''won't acknowledge his key role and responsibility in this matter.'' 
 Mr. Wolfowitz left Tuesday evening for Brussels to attend a conference on education for the poor, the bank said.
 A second official disputing Mr. Wolfowitz revealed an equally bitter tone in their relations. Roberto Danino, a former prime minister of Peru who was the bank's general counsel in 2005, said he had a quick falling-out with the new bank president over the handling of Ms. Riza's case.
 In testimony on Monday that was released late in the evening, Mr. Danino said that Mr. Wolfowitz's desire to maintain contact with Ms. Riza while both worked at the bank violated bank rules and that the president had ''acted incorrectly'' when he gave her a raise and promotion package that ''far exceeded'' what was necessary.
 He said that the package had not been ''disclosed or approved by'' the bank board, its ethics committee or himself, and that it had been ''granted over the objections'' of Xavier Coll, a vice president for human resources. Dr. Coll, a physician from Spain and an expert on health programs for the poor, declined to comment or make his own testimony public.
 Mr. Danino said his relations with Mr. Wolfowitz had spiraled downward, leading to his being ''barred from any meaningful professional contact'' with the bank president and consequently his resignation last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ETHICS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); BOARD CHANGES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%) Ethics

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

PERSON: Paul D Wolfowitz; Shaha Ali Riza; Steven R Weisman; Ad Merkert; Roberto Danino

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



27 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: When Plate Is Bigger Than Stomach

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Late last year, a little book called ''Mindless Eating'' started appearing in bookstores. It was written by Brian Wansink, a Cornell professor who has spent his career doing brilliantly mischievous experiments about the psychology of eating. 
 In one of my favorites, Mr. Wansink gave away five-day-old popcorn -- ''stale enough to squeak when it was eaten,'' he wrote -- to moviegoers one day at a theater in the Chicago suburbs. The crux of the experiment lay in the size of the buckets that held the popcorn. Some people got merely big buckets, while others received truly enormous ones. Both sizes held more popcorn than a typical person could finish.
 Yet when the Wansink research team weighed the buckets after the movie, there was a huge difference in the amounts the two groups ate. Those with the bigger buckets inhaled 53 percent more on average, suggesting that a lot of stale popcorn is somehow more appealing than a little stale popcorn. 
 Over the years, Mr. Wansink has done similar experiments with everything from different-size dinner plates to bottomless bowls of tomato soup that are secretly connected to a tube underneath a restaurant table. His overarching conclusion is that our decisions about eating often have little to do with how hungry we are. Instead, we rely on cues like the size of a popcorn bucket -- or the way we organize our refrigerator -- to tell us how much to eat. These cues can add 200 calories a day to our diet, but the only way we'll notice we are overeating is that our pants will eventually get too tight. 
 The scariest part is that most of us think we are immune to these hidden persuaders. When the moviegoers were told about the popcorn experiment afterward, most of them scoffed at the idea that their bucket size had any effect on them. ''Things like that don't trick me,'' one of the gorgers said.
 After reading the first few chapters of ''Mindless Eating,'' I called Mr. Wansink, an energetic 46-year-old Iowan, to talk about his research. As luck would have it, he said that he was coming to New York a few days later to give a speech. In a flash of masochism, I then asked if he would be willing to stop by my apartment and tell me everything that was wrong with my kitchen.
 ''That'd be so cool!'' he replied.
 Toward the end of ''Mindless Eating,'' there is a short passage making it clear that Mr. Wansink's work is about far more than just food. ''The 19th century has been called the Century of Hygiene,'' he writes. ''The 20th century was the Century of Medicine.''
 This century, he continues, will be the Century of Behavior Change. ''Medicine is still making fundamental discoveries that can fight disease, but changing everyday, long-term behavior is the key to adding years and quality to our lives. This will involve reducing risky behavior and making changes in exercise and nutrition. There isn't a simple prescription that can be written for such behavior change.''
 Over the last couple of decades, a new field of economics, behavioral economics, has emerged to explain why people so often act in ways that are contrary to their own interests. They overeat, smoke, forget to take their medicine and don't save enough for retirement, saying all the while that they wish they could change. Figuring out how to turn these wishes into action could put a dent in some big social problems.
 Last year, President Bush signed a new pension law that was based in part on this idea. It gave companies an incentive to sign up workers automatically for 401(k) plans. The workers can still opt out; in fact, they have the same range of choices they have always had. But if they do nothing, a small part of their salary is set aside for retirement. 
 The pension bill sprang directly from academic research showing that automatic plans vastly increased the amount of money that people saved. ''It's the success of behavioral economics, by far,'' Daniel Kahneman, the Nobel Prize-winning psychologist who helped found the field, recently told me. 
 Whether it's 401(k)'s or food, the way choices are presented to people -- what the economist Richard Thaler calls ''choice architecture'' -- has a huge effect on the decisions they make. As Mr. Wansink and I stood in front of my pantry, he was making the exact same point.
 He started off with some praise, which I was perfectly willing to accept. ''What all this cues up is food preparation,'' he said, pointing to bottles of olive oil and vinegar, sacks of rice and various baking ingredients. ''The default when you open a pantry like this isn't convenience -- it's 'what are we going to make tonight?' ''
 The worst thing for a pantry, he said, are a lot of snack packages in plain sight that require almost no work to open. Every time you glance at one, it essentially asks you a question: ''In the mood for a Dorito right now?'' The more often you're asked the question, the more Doritos you will eat. 
 Mr. Wansink knows that he runs the risk of sounding like a scold, and he goes out of his way to avoid it. (The book jacket for ''Mindless Eating'' notes that he ''enjoys both French food and French fries each week.'') That's probably why he began by saying some nice things about my pantry. It went downhill from there.
 For one thing, the food in the pantry sits behind glass doors. So every time someone in my family walks into the kitchen, we hear a version of that Doritos question in our minds: ''Hungry?'' Our inedible plates, on the other hand, are hidden behind wooden cabinet doors. 
 But those plates have their own problems. Like most American dinner plates, ours are big -- almost 12 inches in diameter. ''Pretty ample,'' as Mr. Wansink said. Fifty years ago, when Americans were a lot skinnier, plates were a lot smaller. Large plates and bowls lead to more eating for the same reason giant popcorn buckets do: they make portions look smaller. Short, wide drinking glasses have a similar effect. 
 Mr. Wansink and his team were so taken aback by the results of their experiments on the shape of glasses that some of them went home and replaced the squat glasses they owned with tall, skinny ones. Mr. Wansink also uses dinner plates from the 1940s, which have the double advantage of being smaller and being more interesting than your typical Crate and Barrel fare.
 Not every one of his ideas, of course, is worth the trade-off. My wife and I are not going to hide all our food. We like looking at our olive oil. But we get no particular joy out of eating off 12-inch plates. So we have started looking at inexpensive antiques as replacements.
 The broader point, I think, is that there is no way to avoid the sort of cues that Mr. Wansink describes. We just have to decide which cues we are going to choose -- the ones that lead to us eat more or the ones that lead us to eat less. The same goes for retirement savings, among many other things. Once we understand that, we can start using our mindlessness to our advantage. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Wansink, who conducts behavioral studies on eating. (Photo by Bill Wingell for The New York Times)(pg. C14) Diagram Brian Wansink uses this diagram to explain why large plates cause people to eat more. The two black dots below are the same size, but the one on the right -- serving as a stand-in for food on a big plate -- looks much less substantial. When food looks less substantial, people eat more of it, his research shows. Size-contrast illusion from ''Mindless Eating'' by Brian Wansink (Bantam Dell). (pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); TRENDS (68%); NUTRITION (65%) Economics; Social Conditions and Trends; Diet and Nutrition; Smoking and Tobacco; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Retirement; Economics

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Brian (Prof) Wansink

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



28 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Immigrant Rights Rallies Smaller Than Last Year

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Reporting was contributed by Sarah Abruzzese in Washington, Ana F. Contreras in Los Angeles, Cassi Feldman in New York, Dan Frosch in Denver, Paul Giblin in Phoenix and Libby Sander in Chicago.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 1 

 BODY:
Tens of thousands of people pressing for immigrants' rights demonstrated on Tuesday in dozens of cities. But with advocates splintered over tactics, the crowds paled in comparison with the turnout last year. 
 The protests, with some of the largest gatherings here and in Chicago and Phoenix, took aim at recent raids by immigration agents and stalled negotiations in Congress over proposals for the most sweeping changes in immigration law in 20 years.
''I came here like everyone else to make sure we get a just immigration reform law passed,'' said Abel Corona, 34, who described himself as an illegal immigrant from Mexico, as he marched here. ''We are not going anywhere. We are not criminals. We came here to work and even to help this country economically.'' 
 Talking over the din of drums and chanting at the Chicago march, Esmeralda Marin, 30, a Mexican-American, said she was demonstrating to denounce the government raids, which have led to an increase in deportations in the last year.
 ''If we have seen anything since last year, we have seen more families torn apart,'' Ms. Marin said. 
 The Chicago march drew 150,000 people, the police said, below the nearly half-million of last year.
 Martha Martinez, 27, who said she was a legal resident, marched in Denver against the raids and on behalf of a family who she said was afraid of being arrested if they participated. 
 ''It's not right to separate families, but that's what has happened,'' Ms. Martinez said, as her 6-year-old son held a sign reading, ''I refuse to live in fear.''
 Some organizers faulted the raids as lowering the turnout of illegal immigrants. Organizers nonetheless claimed success in drawing attention to immigrants' concerns.
 ''We have already injected ourselves into the national immigration debate,'' said Javier Rodriguez, a march organizer in Los Angeles.
 Although sizable in some places, the demonstrations were for the most part peaceful. At an evening rally, however, the Los Angeles police arrested several people they said threw rocks and bottles at officers, who scuffled with some protesters as they tried to disperse the crowd. Police fired rubber cartridges and used batons to push the crowd out of the street, The Associated Press reported, but no arrests were made. 
 The demonstrations seemed to underscore how much the protest movement has struggled in the last year. More than 500,000 people turned out here last year. This year, the police estimated that 25,000 attended the largest of three rallies. 
 In Denver, where 75,000 people participated last year, an estimated 10,000 demonstrated, organizers said. The police put the number at no more than 2,000.
 Unlike the protest last year, nobody called for a ''day without an immigrant.'' No widespread business boycotts materialized. For the most part, students did not pour out of schools.
 Last year, a bill in Congress proposed, among other measures, making it a felony to be in the United States illegally, providing a sharp and clearly defined rallying point that fueled protests. Just as that proposal fizzled, so did the protests, with subsequent rallies smaller and smaller as organizers turned to voter registration and lobbying.
 ''The political climate last year was passionate, energetic, dramatic,'' said Armando Navarro, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California, Riverside, who helped organize marches here last year. ''This year, it is one of uncertainty, doubt, fear, things that are not encouraging of participation and impede in many ways people from participating.''
 Reflecting on the last year, Professor Navarro said: ''We could not agree on what needed to be done next. Some moved on to the assumption we had to impact the November elections to get Democrats elected in Congress. So there was a major gap between the May 1 demonstration and the voter registration drives that summer and fall. But after November, there was nothing in motion.''
 After the Democrats won Congress, some advocates of immigration rights expressed hope that they might find a way to make citizens out of some or all the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. 
 Many of those Democrats won election taking a hard line on immigrants, and as presidential election politics heat up, doubts are growing that an immigration bill will be passed this year.
 The Federation for American Immigration Reform, which says illegal immigrants drain the economy and opposes their legalization as an amnesty, said the marches only made clear the need for more enforcement.
 ''May Day 2007 is likely to draw a small fraction of the participants who marched on behalf of amnesty for illegal aliens in 2006, but it is certain to serve as a reminder to law-abiding Americans that Congress and the Bush administration have still not taken the necessary steps to secure the nation's borders or protect American workers,'' the group said in a statement.
 A group of counterdemonstrators made a similar point as they confronted the thousands of advocates of immigration rights outside the Arizona Capitol in Phoenix.
 In Washington, several hundred people demonstrated at Republican and Democratic Party headquarters.
 In New York, demonstrations were modest compared with some elsewhere. Thousands gathered on Union Square, and demonstrators at an interfaith service at the Judson Memorial Church in Greenwich Village taped leaves on a mural depicting a tree to symbolize families separated by deportation.
 Jacqueline Sayago, 42, of Ridgewood, Queens, a janitor who said she emigrated illegally from Venezuela, said she feared deportation and having to find somewhere for her daughter, 8, who was born in the United States, to stay.
 ''I am scared one day they will separate us,'' Ms. Sayago said. ''I want everybody in America to know that I work, I work hard. I pay I.R.S. money. I'm doing everything right.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Chicago, Juan Aguilar, 16, and Bianca Rodriguez, 17, whose schools let students miss classes, attended a rally in Union Park in the West Loop. (Photo by Sally Ryan for The New York Times)
 Stores along the usually busy Broadway shopping area in central Los Angeles were closed yesterday for a demonstration on immigration. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (88%); FAMILY (88%); RIOTS (87%); REFUGEES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); BOYCOTTS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Demonstrations and Riots; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Randal C Archibold; Sarah Abruzzese; Ana Facio Contreras; Cassi Feldman; Dan Frosch; Paul Giblin; Libby Sander

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Chicago (Ill); Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



29 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1964 words

HEADLINE: Study of N.B.A. Sees Racial Bias In Calling Fouls

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ; Pat Borzi contributed reporting from Minneapolis and John Eligon from East Rutherford, N.J.

 BODY:
An academic study of the National Basketball Association, whose playoffs continue tonight, suggests that a racial bias found in other parts of American society has existed on the basketball court as well.
 A coming paper by a University of Pennsylvania professor and a Cornell University graduate student says that, during the 13 seasons from 1991 through 2004, white referees called fouls at a greater rate against black players than against white players.
Justin Wolfers, an assistant professor of business and public policy at the Wharton School, and Joseph Price, a Cornell graduate student in economics, found a corresponding bias in which black officials called fouls more frequently against white players, though that tendency was not as strong. They went on to claim that the different rates at which fouls are called ''is large enough that the probability of a team winning is noticeably affected by the racial composition of the refereeing crew assigned to the game.''
 N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern said in a telephone interview that the league saw a draft copy of the paper last year, and was moved to do its own study this March using its own database of foul calls, which specifies which official called which foul. 
 ''We think our cut at the data is more powerful, more robust, and demonstrates that there is no bias,'' Mr. Stern said.
 Three independent experts asked by The Times to examine the Wolfers-Price paper and materials released by the N.B.A. said they considered the Wolfers-Price argument far more sound. The N.B.A. denied a request for its underlying data, even with names of officials and players removed, because it feared that the league's confidentiality agreement with referees could be violated if the identities were determined through box scores.
 The paper by Mr. Wolfers and Mr. Price has yet to undergo formal peer review before publication in an economic journal, but several prominent academic economists said it would contribute to the growing literature regarding subconscious racism in the workplace and elsewhere, such as in searches by the police.
 The three experts who examined the Wolfers-Price paper and the N.B.A.'s materials were Ian Ayres of Yale Law School, the author of ''Pervasive Prejudice?'' and an expert in testing for how subtle racial bias, also known as implicit association, appears in interactions ranging from the setting of bail amounts to the tipping of taxi drivers; David Berri of California State University-Bakersfield, the author of ''The Wages of Wins,'' which analyzes sports issues using statistics; and Larry Katz of Harvard University, the senior editor of the Quarterly Journal of Economics. 
 ''I would be more surprised if it didn't exist,'' Mr. Ayres said of an implicit association bias in the N.B.A. ''There's a growing consensus that a large proportion of racialized decisions is not driven by any conscious race discrimination, but that it is often just driven by unconscious, or subconscious, attitudes. When you force people to make snap decisions, they often can't keep themselves from subconsciously treating blacks different than whites, men different from women.''
 Mr. Berri added: ''It's not about basketball -- it's about what happens in the world. This is just the nature of decision-making, and when you have an evaluation team that's so different from those being evaluated. Given that your league is mostly African-American, maybe you should have more African-American referees -- for the same reason that you don't want mostly white police forces in primarily black neighborhoods.''
 To investigate whether such bias has existed in sports, Mr. Wolfers and Mr. Price examined data from publicly available box scores. They accounted for factors like the players' positions, playing time and All-Star status; each group's time on the court (black players played 83 percent of minutes, while 68 percent of officials were white); calls at home games and on the road; and other relevant data. 
 But they said they continued to find the same phenomenon: that players who were similar in all ways except skin color drew foul calls at a rate difference of up to 4 1/2 percent depending on the racial composition of an N.B.A. game's three-person referee crew.
 Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks and a vocal critic of his league's officiating, said in a telephone interview after reading the paper: ''We're all human. We all have our own prejudice. That's the point of doing statistical analysis. It bears it out in this application, as in a thousand others.''
 Asked if he had ever suspected any racial bias among officials before reading the study, Mr. Cuban said, ''No comment.''
 Two veteran players who are African-American, Mike James of the Minnesota Timberwolves and Alan Henderson of the Philadelphia 76ers, each said that they did not think black or white officials had treated them differently.
 ''If that's going on, then it's something that needs to be dealt with,'' James said. ''But I've never seen it.''
 Two African-American coaches, Doc Rivers of the Boston Celtics and Maurice Cheeks of the Philadelphia 76ers, declined to comment on the paper's claims. Rod Thorn, the president of the New Jersey Nets and formerly the N.B.A.'s executive vice president for basketball operations, said: ''I don't believe it. I think officials get the vast majority of calls right. They don't get them all right. The vast majority of our players are black.''
 Mr. Wolfers and Mr. Price spend 41 pages accounting for such population disparities and more than a dozen other complicating factors.
 For the 1991-92 through 2003-4 seasons, the authors analyzed every player's box-score performance -- minutes played, rebounds, shots made and missed, fouls and the like -- in the context of the racial composition of the three-person crew refereeing that game. (The N.B.A. did not release its record of calls by specific officials to either Mr. Wolfers, Mr. Price or The Times, claiming it is kept for referee training purposes only.)
 Mr. Wolfers said that he and Mr. Price classified each N.B.A. player and referee as either black or not black by assessing photographs and speaking with an anonymous former referee, and then using that information to predict how an official would view the player. About a dozen players could reasonably be placed in either category, but Mr. Wolfers said the classification of those players did not materially change the study's findings. 
 During the 13-season period studied, black players played 83 percent of the minutes on the floor. With 68 percent of officials being white, three-person crews were either entirely white (30 percent of the time), had two white officials (47 percent), had two black officials (20 percent) or were entirely black (3 percent).
 Mr. Stern said that the race of referees had never been considered when assembling crews for games.
 With their database of almost 600,000 foul calls, Mr. Wolfers and Mr. Price used a common statistical technique called multivariable regression analysis, which can identify correlations between different variables. The economists accounted for a wide range of factors: that centers, who tend to draw more fouls, were disproportionately white; that veteran players and All-Stars tended to draw foul calls at different rates than rookies and non-stars; whether the players were at home or on the road, as officials can be influenced by crowd noise; particular coaches on the sidelines; the players' assertiveness on the court, as defined by their established rates of assists, steals, turnovers and other statistics; and more subtle factors like how some substitute players enter games specifically to commit fouls.
 Mr. Wolfers and Mr. Price examined whether otherwise similar black and white players had fouls-per-minute rates that varied with the racial makeup of the refereeing crew.
 ''Across all of these specifications,'' they write, ''we find that black players receive around 0.12-0.20 more fouls per 48 minutes played (an increase of 2 1/2-4 1/2 percent) when the number of white referees officiating a game increases from zero to three.'' 
 Mr. Wolfers and Mr. Price also report a statistically significant correlation with decreases in points, rebounds and assists, and a rise in turnovers, when players performed before primarily opposite-race officials. 
 ''Player-performance appears to deteriorate at every margin when officiated by a larger fraction of opposite-race referees,'' they write. The paper later notes no change in free-throw percentage. ''We emphasize this result because this is the one on-court behavior that we expect to be unaffected by referee behavior.''
 Mr. Wolfers and Mr. Price claim that these changes are enough to affect game outcomes. Their results suggested that for each additional black starter a team had, relative to its opponent, a team's chance of winning would decline from a theoretical 50 percent to 49 percent and so on, a concept mirrored by the game evidence: the team with the greater share of playing time by black players during those 13 years won 48.6 percent of games -- a difference of about two victories in an 82-game season.
 ''Basically, it suggests that if you spray-painted one of your starters white, you'd win a few more games,'' Mr. Wolfers said.
 The N.B.A.'s reciprocal study was conducted by the Segal Company, the actuarial consulting firm which designed the in-house data-collection system the league uses to identify patterns for referee-training purposes, to test for evidence of bias. The league's study was less formal and detailed than an academic paper, included foul calls for only two and a half seasons (from November 2004 through January 2007), and did not consider differences among players by position, veteran status and the like. But it did have the clear advantage of specifying which of the three referees blew his whistle on each foul.
 The N.B.A. study reported no significant differences in how often white and black referees collectively called fouls on white and black players. Mr. Stern said he was therefore convinced ''that there's no demonstration of any bias here -- based upon more robust and more data that was available to us because we keep that data.''
 Added Joel Litvin, the league's president for basketball operations, ''I think the analysis that we did can stand on its own, so I don't think our view of some of the things in Wolfers's paper and some questions we have actually matter as much as the analysis we did.''
 Mr. Litvin explained the N.B.A.'s refusal to release its underlying data for independent examination by saying: ''Even our teams don't know the data we collect as to a particular referee's call tendencies on certain types of calls. There are good reasons for this. It's proprietary. It's personnel data at the end of the day.'' 
 The percentage of black officials in the N.B.A. has increased in the past several years, to 38 percent of 60 officials this season from 34 percent of 58 officials two years ago. Mr. Stern and Mr. Litvin said that the rise was coincidental because the league does not consider race in the hiring process.
 Mr. Wolfers and Mr. Price are scheduled to present their paper at the annual meetings of the Society of Labor Economists on Friday and the American Law and Economics Association on Sunday. They will then submit it to the National Bureau of Economic Research and for formal peer review before consideration by an economic journal.
 Both men cautioned that the racial discrimination they claim to have found should be interpreted in the context of bias found in other parts of American society.
 ''There's bias on the basketball court,'' Mr. Wolfers said, ''but less than when you're trying to hail a cab at midnight.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about an academic study that detected a racial bias in the foul calls of referees in the National Basketball Association noted that The New York Times had asked three independent experts to review the study and materials from a subsequent N.B.A. study that detected no bias.
 The experts, whose names the authors of the two studies did not learn until after the article was published, all agreed that the study that detected bias was far more sound. That study was conducted by Justin Wolfers, an assistant professor of business and public policy at the Wharton School, and Joseph Price, a Cornell graduate student in economics.
 After the article was published, The Times learned that one of the three experts, Larry Katz of Harvard University, was the chairman of Mr. Wolfers's doctoral thesis committee, as Mr. Wolfers had acknowledged in previous studies. Because of this, Mr. Katz should not have been cited as an independent expert.
 An updated version of the Wolfers-Price study added acknowledgments for Mr. Katz and a second expert The Times had contacted, David Berri of California State University-Bakersfield. They were thanked for brief ''helpful comments'' about the paper they made to Mr. Wolfers via e-mail messages after reviewing it for The Times. These later comments would have been mentioned in the article if editors had known about them.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Minnesota Timberwolves guard Mike James, left, said he did not think he was treated differently by white and black officials. Commissioner David Stern says a league study demonstrates ''there is no bias.'' (Photos by left, Jim Mone/Associated Press
 Lawrence Jackson/Associated Press)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); SPORTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BAIL (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WRITERS (66%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (50%) Basketball; Blacks; Discrimination; Officiating (Sports); Basketball

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (59%) National Basketball Assn; Segal Co

PERSON: David Stern; Alan Schwartz; Justin Wolfers; Joseph Price; Ian Ayres; David J Berri; Larry Katz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



30 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page ; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Try Shopping Around For Student Loans

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
In financing his engineering education at Montana State University, Brian D. Zier borrowed the maximum in federally guaranteed loans, with their relatively low, fixed rates. But it was not enough. So he turned to a commercial lender to borrow $30,000 more in private loans, which typically have higher, variable rates.
 When Mr. Zier, 24, graduates this month, he will be working for a heavy-equipment rental business. About 20 percent of his income, he said, will go to paying off his loans, around $550 a month, and he expects it to take about 20 years. Some of his private loans have a rate of 8.5 percent, but he is trying to consolidate them and pay a lower rate. 
 ''It was five grand here and six grand there,'' he said, ''and it all adds up to tens of thousands in loans.''
 According to financial aid experts, the best way to finance college is clear: a federally guaranteed loan. Stafford and Perkins loans go directly to students, and PLUS loans are for parents or graduate students.
 Students can take out such loans from banks, other private lenders or state agencies. The federal government guarantees the lender against default and caps the interest rate -- on Stafford loans, the maximum rate is now 6.8 percent -- although lenders can offer a lower rate. At some colleges, students may also borrow directly from the government.
 But federal loans have a yearly and lifetime cap; for example, undergraduates with parental assistance have a lifetime maximum of $23,000 in Stafford loans. And so students and their families increasingly turn to private loans, as Mr. Zier did. These are also offered by banks, other private lenders or state agencies. 
 Yet not only do private loans tend to have less favorable terms, but they can be the hardest to shop for. Like car loans, rates turn on individual credit history, and are not capped, so to learn how much a loan will cost, a student must apply for it. A less-than-stellar credit rating and origination fees can raise the rate to as much as 18 percent for some, said Mark Kantrowitz, a co-author of ''FastWeb College Gold'' (HarperCollins, 2006), a guide to paying for college.
 Mr. Zier said he had not understood at first that his private loans would carry a variable rate.
 For years, students seeking private loans, or any advice on financing their education, have turned to university aid offices, which maintain lists of ''preferred lenders,'' or recommended commercial banks and loan companies. These days, students may be wary of relying on the lists after revelations about how some lenders have won places on them after giving gifts to financial aid officers and making payments to universities.
 Still, whether looking for a federal or private loan, the financial aid office is a good place to start, said Robert M. Shireman, executive director of the Institute for College Access and Success, which works to make college affordable. He advised students to ask officials ''straight up whether they have any financial arrangements with, or receive any gifts from, any of the lenders they recommend.'' 
 But then, he said, students should keep researching, going beyond the university's list, to compare benefits available from different lenders. 
 For both federal and private loans, Mr. Shireman said, students should check with the bank that holds the family's home mortgage, or with state nonprofit agencies that offer student loans. For example, the Missouri Higher Education Loan Authority, known as Mohela, accepts applications from students nationwide for both federal and private loans. Mohela is one of 30 such state agencies, some of which deal only with residents. Their umbrella group is the Education Finance Council, which offers a Borrower Benefits Book, Outreach Book and Financial Aid Guides, at www.efc.org/cs/root/resources/resources.
 The federal Department of Education also offers a guide to student loans: ''Funding Education Beyond High School,'' which is available at www.studentaid.ed.gov/students/publications/student--guide/2006-2007/english/index.htm.
 Students should also look for different ''borrower benefits'' that lenders offer, like interest rate reductions after on-time payments or as a reward for using direct debit from a bank, experts said. 
 But Mr. Kantrowitz, who has a financial aid Web site, FinAid.org, warned that one late or missed payment could cancel the discount. He advised students to seek an upfront waiver or an origination fee rebate. 
 Justin S. Draeger, a spokesman for the National Association of Financial Aid Administrators, said students should seek private loans that mirror federal loans as much as possible, including allowing an extended repayment if the borrower becomes unemployed or returns to school.
 Commercial online sites, like SimpleTuition.com and eStudentLoan.com, allow students to compare loan options for both federal and private loans. But doing this is not so easy, Mr. Shireman said. 
 He used SimpleTuition.com to compare rates for borrowing $10,000 in private loans over 20 years. Student Funding Group LLC advertised a 7.27 percent rate, but when Mr. Shireman completed the paperwork, the best rate was 8.75 percent plus a 4 percent origination fee, despite his excellent credit score. ''The actual rate was between 9 percent and 10 percent,'' Mr. Shireman said. 
 Sergio E. Sotolongo, head of Student Funding, based in Liberty Corner, N.J., maintained that its loan rates were ''credit sensitive so the best credit score could result in a zero origination fee and a rate that floats quarterly.'' He said that currently that would be 7.27 percent.
 Mr. Shireman's second search came up with a 7.875 percent loan from Sun Trust Banks Inc., which had advertised an ''as-low-as rate'' of 7.28 percent. But the site did not mention the federal Stafford loans, with their top rate of 6.8 percent, he said.
 SimpleTuition's listings did include federal PLUS loans, with a 7.92 percent interest rate. Although that rate was higher than those listed on private loans, Mr. Shireman said it was a fixed rate, a point that the Web site did not make clear. This, he said, ''is a critical and potentially expensive distinction,'' pointing out that with the federal loan, students know exactly what they will pay over the loan's lifetime. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Zier expects to be paying off his loans for 20 years. (Photo by Anne Sherwood for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (76%); PARENTING (74%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans

ORGANIZATION: MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



31 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; New Accents in the U.S. Economy; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: Latin American Companies Make Big Gains North of the Border

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: WILTON, Iowa 

 BODY:
First came a wave of immigrants from Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America. Next came tortillas and Spanish-language soap operas, made in the United States, for a growing Hispanic audience in this country. 
 Now, a Mexican bakery company called Grupo Bimbo is distributing English muffins, white bread and ready-made pizza crust across much of the country.
Mexican executives pitching Italian pizza in cities like Kansas City, Mo., a Brazilian steel company buying up troubled mills in the Midwest, a Peruvian cement maker breaking ground in Arizona; these are all part of a surprising, broadening surge of investment in the United States by an intrepid group of successful and suddenly multinational Latin American companies.
 The new ''multi-Latinas'' are aggressive, resourceful enterprises that are a developing byproduct of the market liberalization that swept Latin American economies in the 1990s. But their broadening reach through the United States and the rest of the world -- simmering below the surface for years -- is beginning to turn heads. 
 These Latin American multinationals have even reached places like Wilton, a tiny prairie town right out of a Norman Rockwell painting, where the neon-faced soda shop features a syrupy concoction called the Pink Lady and friends gather for potluck dinners at the Masonic Lodge.
 ''As Latin America lowered its own barriers to trade and investment, its firms began to look at the world in a very different way,'' said Robert Pastor, vice president for international affairs at American University in Washington and a former adviser on Latin America to President Jimmy Carter. ''Now Latin America is not just a destination, but an originator of capital and investment.''
 Samba is not exactly a hit here in Wilton, but a Brazilian-owned steel company, Gerdau Ameristeel, has become one of the two biggest employers in town, importing a new management style and fresh capital to modernize and expand an old mill and temper a tough American labor union. 
 Since arriving in the United States in 1999, Gerdau has swiftly acquired an empire of 17 mills across 11 states, to become the nation's fourth-largest steel producer.
 Similarly, in the last couple of years the Mexican company Cemex has emerged as the No. 1 supplier of cement and ready-mix concrete in the United States, with almost 10,000 employees across the country. The Brazilian oil company Petrobras has become one of the biggest players in deep-water exploration in the Gulf of Mexico, using techniques developed in its own ocean waters.
 ''It's a trend that is clearly growing, and we see it multiplying year after year,'' said Jerry Haar, a business professor at Florida International University who is an expert on the multi-Latinas. ''These companies need to expand into new markets because they have reached market saturation at home, just as Wal-Mart has done here.''
 There are no official estimates of how many Americans work for Latin American companies in the United States, but experts say it could be as many as 100,000 out of the five million people who work here for foreigners.
 Direct foreign investment from Mexico, Central America and South America rose from a tiny base of $8 billion in 1995 to $13.5 billion by 2000, but then jumped more sharply to $30 billion in 2005, according to the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis. 
 Analysts and government officials who track foreign investment say that number is continuing to rise rapidly. One recent example of that growth is Cemex's $14 billion deal to buy the Rinker Group, an Australian construction supply company with large operations throughout the United States.
 Bush administration officials say that they welcome the trend. ''An open investment climate on our side,'' Franklin L. Lavin, undersecretary of commerce for international trade, said in an interview, ''helps keep open the investment climate on the other side.''
 To be sure, Latin American investment still pales next to direct investment from big foreign sources like Britain or Japan. But it is growing at a faster rate than investment coming from most other regions. 
 Mexican companies had little direct investment abroad before 2000. But by 2005 they had invested $6 billion outside Mexico. A Deutsche Bank report on multi-Latinas last month predicted that total ''will be greatly exceeded'' in 2006 and 2007.
 Last year for the first time, Brazil's $26 billion of investments abroad outpaced handily the $18 billion invested by foreign firms in Brazil. 
 The Latin American investment trend in the United States originated with the influx of 40 million or so legal and illegal Latino immigrants, who hunger for a taste of nostalgia when eating at restaurants like Pollo Campero (owned by a Guatemalan chain) or watching Mexican soap operas on Univision (produced by the Televisa network in Mexico).
 Banorte, a large regional Mexican bank, has recently bought up remittance operations in over 40 states to capture service fees on the billions of dollars immigrants send home.
 But the surge has now gone way beyond heavily Latino cities like Miami and Los Angeles, with Latin American companies producing, selling and providing satellite-delivered communications, graphics software, sweets, tiles and even guns. 
 The Brazilian company Embraer, which builds commuter jetliners, is servicing airplanes in Nashville. ARPL Tecnologia Industrial, a Peruvian company, recently started work on a $140 million cement plant in Arizona. 
 As Latin American executives see it, their spread through the United States is a natural extension of their search for markets. 
 ''The demand here in the United States is tremendous for everything -- for goods, commodities, services, everything,'' said Gilberto Neves, chief executive of Odebrecht Construction, a Brazilian contractor that is helping remake the skyline of Miami with jobs like an airport expansion, a performing arts center, an arena for the Miami Heat basketball team and many residential and office buildings. 
 Since 1994, the North American Free Trade Agreement has provided extensive protections to investors in Canada, the United States and Mexico to operate in those countries and encouraged cross-border financial services.
 ''The fears that some Mexicans had about Nafta was that the United States would go down and buy Mexico,'' said Mr. Pastor, the former Carter administration official. What actually happened, he said, is that ''the growth in foreign investment by Mexico in the United States has been much faster than the growth of U.S. foreign investment in Mexico.''
 The wave of economic liberalization that swept Latin America in the 1990s led to a big sell-off of state companies to domestic and foreign businesses, valued at $400 billion in total. 
 Those domestic companies were forced to compete or die, and those that were tough enough to survive became increasingly ambitious.
 After the Argentine economy collapsed in 2001, many multinationals pulled out of the region. That left the field open to private Latin American companies, which knew the terrain and went bargain hunting. Many first invested around the region, and then looked to the United States and beyond. 
 More recently, the purchasing power of Latin American companies to acquire and invest has grown with the value of their local currencies, most stronger in the last few years with surging commodity prices. That may partly explain why the trend has continued, even as economic openness has slowed in Latin America in recent years. Some companies may also see the United States as a market with lower risk, compared with some of their own countries. 
 But the transition to the United States is not always easy, because of more stringent regulatory standards and fiercer competition. 
 Grupo Bimbo, which also owns the company that makes Wonder Bread, had trouble absorbing its $600 million acquisition of George Weston Brands in 2002 for its large distribution network of American brands like Boboli pizzas and Entenmann's cakes. For several years, the operation lost money until the Mexican company eventually fired its American senior management team and remade its product line. 
 Now, Bimbo is starting to make money from its American operations, and its expansion in the United States continues. Gerdau Ameristeel inherited labor problems from many of the steel mills it acquired, and staged a six-month lockout at its plant in Beaumont, Tex., in 2005. 
 The company has attempted to smooth over old tensions by applying management techniques it learned from Toyota and then applied across Brazil. The system includes regular audits and self-evaluation and the creation of benchmarks for production, quality and safety. It now offers bonuses to workers for achieving the goals. 
 Gerdau workers here say they do not always like the new system, and managers concede that some adjustments are needed to link the two cultures.
 ''In Brazil, you can have a dinner for employees and their families, and it's considered a big deal,'' noted Carl W. Czarnik, a Gerdau Ameristeel regional vice president who supervises the Wilton mill. ''But in America some people look at that as an imposition on their free time.'' 
 The Wilton mill was still profitable when Gerdau acquired it for nearly $300 million from Cargill in 2004, along with three other plants. But profit margins had been narrowing in recent years because of increased competition from Chinese, Russian and Turkish imports.
 To increase the plant's value, Gerdau added specialty products like spring components for trucks and S.U.V.'s to the plant's product line. The company kept the plant's management and 320 workers while hiring 10 more employees. It agreed to invest an additional $30 million.
 Mr. Czarnik, who also managed the plant when Cargill owned it, said he lost sleep worrying about the mill's outlook before Gerdau came in. 
 ''I thought there wasn't necessarily a lot of future in a plant, with outdated equipment that was depreciating, owned by a company that was not focused on steel,'' he recalled.
 But now that Gerdau owns the mill, ''it's like being adopted,'' he said. ''I don't care what country the parents come from.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on May 2 about the expansion of Latin American companies into the United States misstated the relationship of one such company, Grupo Bimbo, with Wonder Bread. Grupo Bimbo makes and distributes Wonder Bread only in Mexico, where it has acquired the rights from Wonder Bread's parent, the Interstate Brands Corporation. Grupo Bimbo does not own Wonder Bread. The error was pointed out by Grupo Bimbo shortly after the article appeared. This correction was delayed while another question about the article was researched.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerdau Ameristeel of Brazil owns 17 steel mills in 11 states, including this one in Wilton, Iowa, one of the biggest employers in town. (Photo by Matthew Holst for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
A crane loading scrap into a crusher for recycling at the Gerdau Ameristeel plant in Iowa, one of 17 American plants bought by a Brazilian company. An estimated 100,000 Americans work for Latin American companies.
 Molten steel flowing from a furnace at the Gerdau Ameristeel plant in Wilton, Iowa. The company is the fourth-biggest U.S. steel maker. (Photographs by Matthew Holst for The New York Times)(pg. C10) Chart: ''Booming Latin American Investment in U.S.'' Direct foreign investment from each country Graphs track direct foreign investment from Brazil, Venezuela* and Mexico from 1995 to 2005. *Negative amounts arise when American affiliates of Latin American companies send more money back home than they get. (Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); CEMENT MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (84%); TORTILLA MFG (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (77%); BAKERIES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (63%); OCEANS (63%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (50%) United States Economy; Foreign Investments; Multinational Companies; Steel and Iron; Labor; Organized Labor ; Cement; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CEMEX SAB DE CV (58%); GRUPO BIMBO SAB DE CV (58%); PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Gerdau Ameristeel; Cemex (Mexican Co); Petroleos Brasileiro

TICKER: CX (NYSE) (58%); CEMEX (BMV) (58%); BIMBO (BMV) (58%); PETR3 (BOVESPA) (57%); PBR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212321 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL MINING (58%); SIC1442 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%) Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (92%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); BRAZIL (95%); MEXICO (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%) Latin America; Brazil; Wilton (Iowa); Mexico; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



32 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: America in Iraq: 10 More Years?

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 ''Why Congress Should Embrace the Surge,'' by Owen West (Op-Ed, May 1), suggests that Congress and the American public should trust those who started and executed this war with 10 more years to ''win.'' This misses the forest (a wrong war) for some trees (how to win). 
 Many Americans now see that the war in Iraq was based on lies and deceptions, misunderstanding of the task, and narrow ideologies of a few in power. 
 We see that it had nothing to do with terrorism, that it has destabilized the Middle East and increased the terrorist threat, ruined America's moral authority in the world, cost the world tens of thousands of lives, and that four years and hundreds of billions of dollars later, the United States clearly has not had a coherent strategy to ''win the peace.'' 
 We don't know the best course out of this quagmire, but we know an unnecessary disaster when we see one. 
 So we have asked for change. We hope that these new leaders will find a solution. Erec Stebbins New York, May 1, 2007 To the Editor:
 An argument now at the forefront of the war supporters is that the nation needs to ''support our troops.'' This has undeniable resonance with most Americans, conjuring up images of an imagined past where the comforting support of community and family held us all in a state of grace. 
 All one has to do to ''support the troops'' is to give up critical inquiry into the policies and competence of our leaders, a small price to pay to free ourselves from the collective responsibility of the mayhem committed in our name. Steve Child San Francisco, May 1, 2007 To the Editor:
 Owen West's article, while persuasive in advocating for continued Congressional support for the war in Iraq, does not mention one vital element, the American economy. 
 The fact that American soldiers ''will be needed in Iraq for another decade'' is an ominous extrapolation for a war that costs so much each day. 
 Average Americans may be ''detached'' from the battlefield, but they are conscious of the many other social areas in which the Bush administration is falling short. John Kane Centereach, N.Y., May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); TERRORISM (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: Erec Stebbins; Steve Child; John Kan; Owen West

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



33 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise on New Interest in Takeovers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks moved higher on Wall Street yesterday after a bid for the media company Dow Jones & Company revived enthusiasm about takeover activity.
 Stocks of big companies benefited, and the Dow Jones industrial average reached another record close, its 38th since October.
The Dow industrials rose 73.23 points, to 13,136.14, after dropping to 13,041.30 in earlier trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.93 points, to 1,486.30. The Nasdaq composite index rose 6.44 points, to 2,531.53. 
 Early in the session, stocks wavered on mixed economic data that showed strength in manufacturing, but a wilting housing market and weak car sales. But the caution dissipated after Dow Jones, which publishes The Wall Street Journal, confirmed that it had received an unsolicited bid from the News Corporation, Rupert Murdoch's company, to buy the company for $5 billion, or $60 a share.
 News of the bid bolstered media companies and publishers in particular, but also encouraged buying in other sectors because it was seen as additional evidence of surging corporate takeover activity despite an economic slowdown. 
 Shares of Dow Jones surged $19.87, to close at $56.20. The News Corporation, which owns the Fox broadcast network and other media properties, fell $1.01, to $22.99.
 The New York Times Company rose $1.53, to $24.93; Journal Register jumped 43 cents, to $6.30; and the American shares of the Reuters Group climbed $2.19, to $59.43.
 Adding to the takeover buzz was a report that Microsoft was considering buying the online advertising company 24/7 Real Media, which rose $2.02, to $11.97. Microsoft rose 25 cents, to $30.19.
 A stronger-than-expected reading on the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for April failed to promote buying. Robust manufacturing activity is good for many American companies, but it reduces the chance that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates.
 The National Association of Realtors said pending sales of existing homes fell 4.9 percent in March, to their lowest level in four years, while Ford Motor, Toyota Motor and General Motors reported declines in American sales for April. DaimlerChrysler reported a slim rise.
 Ford rose a penny, to $8.05; DaimlerChrysler rose 40 cents, to $80.91. The American shares of Toyota Motor rose 11 cents, to $121.53, and G.M. rose 2 cents, to $31.25.
 The auto sales over all were not as bad as many were expecting, and the tepid housing market was nothing new, so investors reacted little to the data.
 Crude oil prices fell $1.31, to $64.40, on the New York Mercantile Exchange ahead of the government's weekly inventory report today.
 Earnings reports were mixed yesterday. Procter & Gamble, one of the 30 Dow components, said profit in the most recent quarter rose 14 percent, but the figure failed to top expectations. Procter & Gamble fell $1.56, to $62.83.
 The fiscal third-quarter earnings of Archer Daniels Midland fell short of Wall Street forecasts. The company, the country's largest ethanol producer, cited higher corn costs. A.D.M. fell $2.10, to $36.60.
 Circuit City Stores, the electronics retailer, said it expected to report steep first-quarter losses, and its shares fell 93 cents, to $16.52.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32, to 99 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.64 percent, from 4.62 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills: (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price: 99.643 High Rate: 4.590 Coupon Yield: 4.683 Low Rate: 4.550 Median Rate: 4.575 Total applied for: $35,111,419 Accepted: $13,696,544 Noncompetitive: $408,800 The four-week bills mature May 31, 2007 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); TAKEOVERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (88%); PUBLISHING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXISTING HOME SALES (75%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (95%); NEWS CORP (92%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%); FORD MOTOR CO (71%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); 24/7 REAL MEDIA INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); NYT (NYSE) (83%); FORDP (PAR) (71%); F (NYSE) (71%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (52%); TYT (LSE) (52%); TM (NYSE) (52%); 7203 (TSE) (52%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (71%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



34 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 1 

 BODY:
Is the Edge giving Ford the edge it was hoping for?
 At the very least, the new crossover vehicle is keeping sales at the Ford Motor Company from dropping even more than they already are this year, at a time when the company is pulling back on unprofitable sales to rental-car companies.
Ford is meeting the expectations it set for the Edge when the vehicle went on sale in December. But the Edge is not generating the revenue of the big sport utility vehicles that once fueled Ford's profits, and it is not drawing the new customers that the company will need to bounce back from its worst loss in history -- $12.7 billion last year. 
 Ford's falling sales have allowed the Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan to replace it as the second-largest seller of vehicles in the United States, after General Motors, through the first four months. 
 And there is the question of buzz: Ford has pulled out all the stops to promote the Edge, with television ads directed by the playwright David Mamet in its latest attempt to get attention for the vehicle. 
 Yet there are already lease deals available for the Edge, and some Ford insiders are concerned that its price, which starts at $25,995, is too high to sustain current sales levels once the vehicle's novelty wears off -- further proof that in today's ultra-competitive car market, automakers have only a brief window to make a splash.
 Since arriving at dealerships in December, the Edge has been one of the few bright spots for Ford. On Tuesday, when automakers reported sales for April, Ford said its overall sales in April fell 7 percent on a selling-day adjusted basis; a distinction made because a year ago, there were two more selling days in April. Without the Edge and two other new crossovers in its lineup, Ford's decline last month would have been 12 percent, the worst among major automakers.
 Ford has sold 33,600 units of the Edge so far this year, on pace for its goal of selling 100,000 units in all of 2007. But the company's chief sales analyst, George Pipas, said many of those had been bought by people who already owned Fords.
 ''The products that are most traded in are other Ford products,'' Mr. Pipas said. ''It's retaining Ford buyers who were in traditional S.U.V.'s that are moving into another category.''
 To be sure, Ford needed vehicles that could keep its customers from defecting to other brands, particularly as high gasoline prices lead consumers to seek more fuel-efficient vehicles. But the Edge alone can do little to help Ford reach its goal of earning a profit in North America by 2009.
 ''Crossovers are not the cash cows that the Ford Explorers and Expeditions were,'' said Ron Pinelli, president of the Autodata Corporation, the industry research company based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
 ''There's just not enough volume there for Ford to make up for what they've lost,'' Mr. Pinelli said. ''Even if the Edge is doing incredibly well, the profit contribution isn't going to be terrific, and there aren't going to be enough of them to move the scale from the loss side to the profit side.''
 The Edge was not enough to stop Ford's market share from falling to 17 percent from 18 percent a year ago, according to Autodata; the decline was the largest among all major automakers. G.M.'s market share slipped to 23 percent from 23.5 percent, while the Chrysler Group had a rare increase, to 14.4 percent from 13.1 percent. Toyota leads all automakers in worldwide sales. 
 Chrysler, which could be sold in the coming months by its German parent, DaimlerChrysler, surprised analysts by saying its April sales rose 10 percent. Chrysler executives attributed the gain to a well-organized incentive program, including free DVD players in its minivans and discounts on the Dodge Ram pickup, as well as a successful 96-hour sale at the end of the month.
 ''We were just very fortunate to catch the wind when we did in April,'' said Steven J. Landry, Chrysler's executive vice president for North American sales and global marketing. ''We had a very strong close.''
 Meanwhile, Japanese automakers had an uncharacteristically weak month, with Honda's sales down 1.6 percent and Nissan's down 11.2 percent. Toyota posted a 3.7 percent sales increase, its lowest year-over-year gain since August 2004. Although Ford came in slightly ahead of it for the month, Toyota has sold nearly 5,000 more vehicles than Ford so far this year.
 Yet there are signs of some bumps in the road for Toyota, like an inventory that has grown 30 percent in the last year. Many of those unsold vehicles may be the new Tundra pickups; Toyota has sold about 43,000 Tundras since the truck went on sale in February, well below the pace needed to reach its goal of selling 200,000 this year.
 But because the Tundra makes more money for Toyota than the Edge does for Ford, the Edge cannot necessarily be called the more successful of the two.
 Still, Ford and its dealers say they are thrilled with the Edge. Mr. Pipas of Ford said it was competing well against crossover models from Toyota, Honda and Nissan. ''The sales levels, really coming from having no brand recognition, are kind of in the same sandbox as three really great products that have established themselves over the course of several years,'' Mr. Pipas said. ''I don't know if I thought we could get there that soon.''
 Ron Christiano, general manager of Cortese Ford in Rochester, said customers liked the Edge because it used less gas than an S.U.V. The Edge increased traffic to the dealership more quickly than Ford's Fusion sedan, which has sold well since its introduction in 2005, he said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture in the auto sales chart in Business Day on Wednesday was published in error. It showed a Nissan Altima Coupe, which is not on the market yet, rather than the Altima sedan, which had a 12.4 percent drop in sales in April. (The error first occurred in the sales chart on Jan. 4.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ford Edge crossover vehicles, introduced late last year, sat on a dealer's lot in Detroit in February. The vehicle has failed to generate the sales that Ford's big sport utility vehicles once did. (Photo by Carlos Osario/Associated Press)
Honda CR-V
Nissan Altima Chart: ''How the Industry Fared'' APRIL 2006 Cars: 711,848 Light Trucks: 731,908 Total: 1,443,756 APRIL 2007 Cars: 624,414 Light Trucks: 707,019 Total: 1,331,433 CHANGE Cars: -12.3% Light Trucks: - 3.4% Total: - 7.8% ADJUSTED CHANGE* Cars: - 5.0% Light Trucks: + 4.6% Total: - 0.1% ANNUAL SELLING RATE (millions) Cars: 7.32 Light Trucks: 8.85 Total: 16.18 Chart: ''How Automakers Fared'' GENERAL MOTORS April 2007 Sales: 307,754 Adjusted Change*: - 1.9% Market Share: 23.1% FORD April 2007 Sales: 220,627 Adjusted Change*: - 6.9 Market Share: 16.6 DAIMLERCHRYSLER April 2007 Sales: 213,999 Adjusted Change*: + 9.7 Market Share: 16.1 TOYOTA April 2007 Sales: 210,457 Adjusted Change*: + 3.7 Market Share: 15.8 HONDA April 2007 Sales: 126,419 Adjusted Change*: - 1.6 Market Share: 9.5 NISSAN April 2007 Sales: 71,138 Adjusted Change*: -11.2 Market Share: 5.3 HYUNDAI April 2007 Sales: 39,137 Adjusted Change*: - 3.4 Market Share: 2.9 Chart: ''Most Popular Cars and Trucks'' Data for the United States. FORD -- F Series April 2007 Sales: 56,692 Change from April 2006 Sales: - 5.1% CHEVROLET -- Silverado April 2007 Sales: 49,436 Change from April 2006 Sales: - 7.2 TOYOTA -- Camry April 2007 Sales: 37,911 Change from April 2006 Sales: + 2.2 TOYOTA -- Corolla April 2007 Sales: 32,289 Change from April 2006 Sales: - 3.3 DODGE -- Ram April 2007 Sales: 31,503 Change from April 2006 Sales: +10.8 HONDA -- Civic April 2007 Sales: 29,155 Change from April 2006 Sales: + 1.0 HONDA -- Accord April 2007 Sales: 28,926 Change from April 2006 Sales: - 0.9 CHEVROLET -- Impala April 2007 Sales: 28,171 Change from April 2006 Sales: +17.9 DODGE -- Caravan April 2007 Sales: 23,095 Change from April 2006 Sales: +10.9 HONDA -- CR-V April 2007 Sales: 17,379 Change from April 2006 Sales: +39.4 GMC -- Sierra April 2007 Sales: 16,849 Change from April 2006 Sales: + 6.3 FORD -- Focus April 2007 Sales: 16,626 Change from April 2006 Sales: + 0.5 NISSAN -- Altima April 2007 Sales: 16,309 Change from April 2006 Sales: -12.4 FORD -- Econoline April 2007 Sales: 15,740 Change from April 2006 Sales: + 1.0 CHRYLER -- Town & Contry April 2007 Sales: 15,701 Change from April 2006 Sales: +34.7 BIGGEST GAINER Honda CR-V: +39.4% BIGGEST LOSER Nissan Altima: -12.4 Sales for DaimlerChrysler include Mercedes
sales for Ford include Volvo and Land Rover
 sales for General Motors include Saab. *Based on average daily sales adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. (Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); DRAMA LITERATURE (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); HYBRID VEHICLES (58%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (57%) Automobiles; Sales; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Toyota Motor Corp; General Motors Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



35 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Are Book Reviewers Out of Print?

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
Last year Dan Wickett, a former quality-control manager for a car-parts maker, wrote 95 book reviews on his blog, Emerging Writers Network (emergingwriters.typepad.com/), singlehandedly compiling almost half as many reviews as appeared in all of the book pages of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
 Mr. Wickett has now quit the automotive industry and started a nonprofit organization that supports literary journals and writers-in-residence programs, giving him more time to devote to his literary blog. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, meanwhile, has recently eliminated the job of its book editor, leading many fans to worry that book coverage will soon be provided mostly by wire services and reprints from national papers.
The decision in Atlanta -- in which book reviews will now be overseen by one editor responsible for virtually all arts coverage -- comes after a string of changes at book reviews across the country. The Los Angeles Times recently merged its once stand-alone book review into a new section combining the review with the paper's Sunday opinion pages, effectively cutting the number of pages devoted to books to 10 from 12. Last year The San Francisco Chronicle's book review went from six pages to four. All across the country, newspapers are cutting book sections or running more reprints of reviews from wire services or larger papers. 
 To some authors and critics, these moves amount to yet one more nail in the coffin of literary culture. But some publishers and literary bloggers -- not surprisingly -- see it as an inevitable transition toward a new, more democratic literary landscape where anyone can comment on books. In recent years, dozens of sites, including Bookslut.com, The Elegant Variation (marksarvas.blogs.com/elegvar/), maudnewton .com, Beatrice.com and the Syntax of Things (syntaxofthings.typepad.com), have been offering a mix of book news, debates, interviews and reviews, often on subjects not generally covered by newspaper book sections.
 For those who are used to the old way, it's a tough evolution. ''Like anything new, it's difficult for authors and agents to understand when we say, 'I'm sorry, you're not going to be in The New York Times or The Chicago Tribune, but you are going to be at curledup.com,' '' said Trish Todd, publisher of Touchstone Fireside, an imprint of Simon & Schuster. ''But we think that's the wave of the future.''
 Obviously, the changes at newspaper book reviews reflect the broader challenges faced by newspapers in general, as advertisement revenues decline, and readers decamp to the Internet. But some writers (and readers) question whether economics should be the only driving factor. Newspapers like The Atlanta Journal-Constitution could run book reviews ''as a public service, and the fact of the matter is that they are unwilling to,'' said Richard Ford, the Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist. 
 ''I think the reviewing function as it is thoroughly taken up by newspapers is vital,'' he continued, ''in the same way that literature itself is vital.'' 
 Mr. Ford is one of more than 120 writers who have signed a petition to save the job of Teresa Weaver, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution's book editor. The petition, sponsored by the National Book Critics Circle, comes as part of the organization's effort to save imperiled book coverage generally. ''We will continue to use freelancers, established news services and our staff to provide stories about books of interest to our readers and the local literary community,'' said Mary Dugenske, a spokeswoman for the newspaper, in an e-mail message.
 Coming as it does at a time when newspaper book reviews are endangered, many writers, publishers and critics worry that the spread of literary blogs will be seen as compensation for more traditional coverage. ''We have a lot of opinions in our world,'' said John Freeman, president of the National Book Critics Circle. ''What we need is more mediation and reflection, which is why newspapers and literary journals are so important.''
 Edward Champion, who writes about books on his blog, Return of the Reluctant (edrants.com), said that literary blogs responded to the ''often stodgy and pretentious tone'' of traditional reviews.
 The brute fact is that while authors and publishers may want long and considered responses to their work, sometimes what they most need is attention. Last year, when Random House published ''This Is Not Chick Lit,'' a story collection with contributions from authors like Jennifer Egan and Curtis Sittenfeld, it generated a lot of online chatter as various bloggers debated whether the book was pretentious or a welcome correction to an oversubscribed genre. ''All the slow but steady online exposure helped build a grass-roots thing,'' said Julia Cheiffetz, the book's editor at Random House, who noted that ''This Is Not Chick Lit'' is now in its sixth printing with 45,000 copies in print.
 But while online buzz can help some books, newspapers can pique the interest of a general reader, said Oscar Villalon, books editor at The San Francisco Chronicle. Blogs, he said, are ''not mass media.'' The Chronicle, for example, he said, has a circulation of nearly 500,000, a number not many blogs can achieve.
 On the other hand, committed readers who take the time to find a literary blog may be more likely than a casual reader of the Sunday newspaper to buy a book. ''I know that everyone who comes to my site is interested in books,'' said Mark Sarvas, editor of The Elegant Variation, a literary blog that publishes lengthy reviews. 
 And newspaper book reviews, which are often accused of hewing too closely to ''safe choices,'' could learn something from the more freewheeling approach of some of the book blogs, said David L. Ulin, who edits the book review at The Los Angeles Times. 
 ''One of the troubles with mainstream print criticism is that people can be too polite,'' Mr. Ulin said. ''I feel like an aspect of the gloves-off nature of blogs is something that we could all learn from, not in an irresponsible way, but in a wear-your-likes-and-dislikes-on-your-sleeves kind of way.''
 Maud Newton, who has been writing a literary blog since 2002, said she has the freedom to follow obsessions like, say, Mark Twain in a way that a newspaper book review could not, unless there was a current book on the subject. But she would never consider what she does a replacement for more traditional book reviews.
 ''I find it kind of naive and misguided to be a triumphalist blogger,'' Ms. Newton said. ''But I also find it kind of silly when people in the print media bash blogs as a general category, because I think the people are doing very, very different things.''
 One thing that regional newspapers in particular can do is highlight local authors. ''While I'm all for the literary bloggers, and I think the more people that write about books the better, they're not necessarily as regionally focused as knowledgeable, experienced long-term editors in the South or Midwest or anywhere where the most important writers come from,'' said Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of The New York Times Book Review. 
 Many local authors view the decision at The Atlanta Journal-Constitution as a betrayal of important local coverage.
 ''With the removal of its cultural critics, Atlanta is surrendering again,'' wrote Melissa Fay Greene, author of ''Praying for Sheetrock'' in an e-mail message. ''We all lose, you know, not just Atlantans, with the disappearance from the scene of a literate intelligence.'' 
 Of course literary bloggers argue that they do provide a multiplicity of voices. But some authors distrust those voices. Mr. Ford, who has never looked at a literary blog, said he wanted the judgment and filter that he believed a newspaper book editor could provide. ''Newspapers, by having institutional backing, have a responsible relationship not only to their publisher but to their readership,'' Mr. Ford said, ''in a way that some guy sitting in his basement in Terre Haute maybe doesn't.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Wednesday about the reduction in space for book reviews in some newspapers in the United States, and the emergence of Web sites that offer reviews, misstated the title held at Touchstone Fireside, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, by Trish Todd, who commented on the changes. It is editor-in-chief, not publisher.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Los Angeles Times recently merged its book review into a new section combining the review with the Sunday opinion pages. (pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (50%) Books and Literature; News and News Media; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (93%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%) GEORGIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



36 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Yum Brands Makes Gains, Mostly in Sales At China Unit

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Despite back-to-back public relations disasters -- first an E. coli outbreak at its Taco Bell franchise, and then a widely publicized rat infestation at one of its restaurants in New York City -- Yum Brands yesterday reported strong first-quarter earnings, as surging overseas sales and growth offset reduced business in the United States.
 The restaurant chain, which operates KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut, said that net income increased 14 percent in the first quarter, to $194 million, led by a 31 percent increase in operating profit in the China division and a 25 percent increase in other overseas markets. 
In the United States, the story was different. Operating profit at the company's domestic restaurants declined by 11 percent in the quarter as company officials battled to restore consumer confidence. At Taco Bell, where both the E. coli and rat incidents occurred, same-store sales declined by 11 percent. 
 The first problem surfaced in December, when customers at Taco Bell stores in Long Island and New Jersey reported falling ill from E. coli poisoning after eating at the chain. The illnesses spread to Pennsylvania and Delaware, and the Centers for Disease Control confirmed more than 70 cases, though state officials suspected far more.
 Preliminary tests by Taco Bell traced the E. coli to green onions, which are used as a garnish on some dishes. But further testing discounted green onions, and federal investigators eventually determined that the cause of the outbreak was lettuce, which is used in about 80 percent of Taco Bell's dishes.
 Taco Bell responded by temporarily closing and sanitizing the restaurants with the contaminated food and by switching produce suppliers. Taco Bell now requires the farmers who supply its lettuce to test the raw product at the farm for E. coli, in addition to tests already being conducted by the restaurant's suppliers.
 ''Our goal is to expand this farm-level testing to other produce as soon as possible,'' said Peter R. Hearl, Yum's chief operating officer.
 The second incident occurred in February, when a television news camera captured rats running rampant through a restaurant in Greenwich Village, which housed both a Taco Bell and a KFC. Not only was the videotape played repeatedly on television news shows, but it also became a popular video on the Internet, spreading word of the situation well beyond New York.
 The owner of the restaurant had tried to address the rodent problem, hiring a construction crew and pest control experts. But when a construction crew failed to cover a gaping hole in the basement one evening, rats scampered into the restaurant.
 A passer-by noticed the rodents in the middle of the night, contacted a television news tip line and touched off an embarrassing episode for Yum Brands, particularly given its proximity to the E. coli outbreak. Yum officials said the Greenwich Village restaurant would not be reopened.
 Yum Brands hired a pest control expert to review its protocols and to recommend improvements.
 ''The recent rodent infestation at a franchisee's restaurant in New York City is simply unacceptable, and it shouldn't have happened,'' Mr. Hearl said in a statement.
 But Yum Brands, which is based in Louisville, Ky., said yesterday that it was raising its predictions for full-year 2007 earnings on the strength of its international business. Yum Brands has added 351 restaurants in China in the last year, for a total of 2,202. Same-store sales in China increased by 9 percent in the first quarter of this year.
 Joseph T. Buckley, an analyst at Bear Stearns, said he was surprised that the numbers in the United States were not worse. ''From an overall corporate standpoint, you would never know they had a problem,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); E COLI (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (89%); RODENTS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (85%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNET VIDEO (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (65%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Restaurants; Company Reports

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (90%); YUM! BRANDS INC (84%); PIZZA HUT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%) Yum Brands

TICKER: YUM (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%)

PERSON: Andrew Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



37 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Turkish Court Blocks Candidate With Islamic Base

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, May 1 

 BODY:
Turkey's highest court on Tuesday blocked a presidential candidate with a background in Islamic politics, pitching the country into early elections and a referendum on the role of religion in its future. 
 In a 9-to-2 ruling, the court upheld an appeal by Turkey's main secular political party, which sought to block Abdullah Gul, a close ally of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, from becoming president, objecting to what they said were his Islamic credentials.
But Mr. Gul, an observant Muslim who is Turkey's foreign minister, has kept Islam out of public policy in his four years in government, and his supporters said the decision was simply an attempt to hold on to power by Turkey's secular elite, which has controlled the state since Ataturk's revolution in 1923.
 Turkey is an important American ally and its stability is seen as crucial in a troubled region. It shares borders with Iran, Iraq and Syria. It is a member of NATO and has good relations with Israel. It has also been critical for the American military in Iraq, providing an air base in the south of the country that supplies much of northern and central Iraq. 
 In the ruling, the court annulled a vote for Mr. Gul held in Parliament on Friday because there were not enough lawmakers present. Secular parties boycotted the vote. 
 But the ruling was more political than legal, his supporters charged. Previous presidents have been elected with fewer lawmakers present in the first round of voting. The court, they argue, reflects the interests of a secular establishment that is now mounting an assault against Mr. Erdogan and the emerging class of religious Turks that he represents. 
 The court ''is a product of the military coup in 1960,'' said Eser Karakas, a professor at Bahcesehir University in Istanbul. The court was formed after the coup to interpret the Constitution, which enshrines secularism at the heart of the state. 
 In remarks broadcast Tuesday, Mr. Erdogan said his party would press for early elections in late June or early July. Parliament must vote to begin elections, but the measure is supported by parties across the political spectrum and is expected to pass.
 He also made what is likely to be a highly controversial proposal that would take the presidential selection process out of the hands of Parliament altogether and place it in a popular vote, which he would like to see happen soon, but which is unlikely to affect the current election. Turkey is a parliamentary system, and Turks vote for parties, which then form governments based on their allotment in Parliament. 
 Currently the president, Turkey's highest-ranking secular official, is elected by Parliament. The president commands the military, vetoes legislation and appoints judges. ''There is nowhere more beautiful than the ballot box for criticism,'' Mr. Erdogan said. 
 ''In order to free ourselves from this blockage,'' he continued, ''the only place to go is to the nation that indisputably owns sovereignty.''
 Mr. Erdogan's confidence springs from the vast network that his party, known by its Turkish initials AK, has established in the grass roots of Turkish society. He represents the conservative heartland, which for years had been on the periphery but now is moving into the mainstream, since its constituents migrated in vast numbers to the cities and were elevated by an economic boom. 
 Some analysts expected him to come out even stronger in early elections. His party currently holds 351 seats in the 550-member Parliament. 
 The open question on Tuesday night was what action, if any, Turkey's powerful military would take. The military sees itself as the defender of Ataturk's secular legacy and has ousted four elected governments since 1960. It issued a sharp warning to the government on Friday night that it would intervene if Mr. Erdogan strayed too far from the secularism that is the backbone of the state. 
 Turkish political analysts said Tuesday that the military was unlikely to intervene for now, thinking it had won a victory with the court decision. But some said the secular parties seem to be overestimating their popularity. 
 Mr. Gul, 56, an English speaker who has led Turkey's push to join the European Union, tried to allay Turkish fears on Tuesday. 
 ''If I had had a secret agenda as claimed, if those concerns were truly a part of my secret agenda, the European Union membership could not have been my policy,'' he said. 
 Then, in a conciliatory tone unusual for members of his party, who ordinarily dismiss secular concerns as old-fashioned and unreasonable, Mr. Gul added, ''But if there are concerns as such, we need to work together to understand and correct them.''
 Heightening the tension was the arrest of more than 500 protestors, who were marching in an unauthorized May Day rally unrelated to the current political impasse. Television networks broadcast images of police officers in riot gear beating demonstrators and spraying them with pepper gas. The Turkish stock market continued its fall, and Mr. Erdogan made public remarks to restore faith in it.
 His supporters deplored the court's decision as unfair.
 ''In the last four years I've been going around Europe saying that Turkey has made all these reforms and it is a democratic place,'' said Egemen Bagis, an adviser to Mr. Erdogan and a lawmaker. ''Now I don't know what to tell them. Turkey doesn't deserve this.''
 Deniz Baykal, the leader of the secular Republican People's Party, which appealed to the court, hailed its action. ''From now on, no party has the chance to dictate a president,'' he said on national television. The verdict ''will claim its place in legal history as highly respectable and important.''
 The changes in Turkish society have raised concerns among secular Turks that their lifestyles will not be respected once the rank and file of Mr. Erdogan's party settle deeper into state institutions. That worry drew hundreds of thousands of secular protesters onto the streets here and in Istanbul last month. 
 ''I'm very worried about the future of society,'' said Asli Aydintasbas, Ankara bureau chief for Sabah, a daily newspaper. ''I've never seen such an emotional debate. It's so polarized.''
 Hakan Yavuz, an expert in Turkish religion and politics at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, used a colorful metaphor: ''Turkey is like a transvestite. The spirit and the body are in conflict.''
 In four years of power, Mr. Erdogan failed to build bridges to the secular community, Mr. Yavuz said, and vastly underestimated the depth of secular concerns. 
 Mr. Gul on Tuesday tried to assuage those concerns.
 ''I, consciously or unconsciously, might have made mistakes,'' he said. ''Has it never happened to you? The important thing is to be able to notice these mistakes, correct and direct them into a better direction.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose choice for president was blocked by Turkey's highest court yesterday, said his party would press for early elections in late June or early July to break the impasse. ''There is nowhere more beautiful than the ballot box for criticism,'' he said. (Photo by Umit Bektas/Reuters)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUPS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); VETO (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); CHURCH & STATE (72%); BOYCOTTS (71%); MILITARY BASES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); ARMED FORCES (66%); RANKINGS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Decisions and Verdicts; Politics and Government; Elections; Islam; Church-State Relations; Referendums; Demonstrations and Riots; Election Issues ; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (90%); ABDULLAH GUL (79%) Sabrina Tavernise; Abdullah (Min) Gul; Recep Tayyip (Prime Min) Erdogan

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (98%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%) Turkey; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



38 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Takes Over Foreign-Controlled Oil Projects in Venezuela

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SAN FELIPE, Venezuela, May 1 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez on Tuesday seized control of the last remaining oil projects in Venezuela controlled by large American and European energy companies. The move to take over the projects, announced in January, is the centerpiece of recent actions aimed at consolidating his government's control over the economy. 
 Dressed in red fatigues, Mr. Chavez delivered a fiery speech at the coastal oil refining complex of Jose, denouncing America's economic influence before thousands of supporters also clad in red, the color of his revolution.
 ''Today is the end of that era when our natural riches ended up the hands of anyone but the Venezuelan people,'' Mr. Chavez said during the speech, while speaking glowingly of important allies like Iran, a fellow OPEC member. 
 Venezuela's control over the oil-production projects, which are in the Orinoco region in the country's interior and worth an estimated $30 billion, will weaken companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron and ConocoPhillips in one of the world's most promising oil exploration regions. 
 Venezuela is allowing the private companies to remain as minority partners, but the companies are still far from reaching agreements on compensation for the loss of their assets. 
 The seizure of control is expected to have little immediate impact on oil exports to the United States, the leading buyer of Venezuela's oil despite deteriorating political ties. The United States has steadily diversified its oil sources since a decade ago when Venezuela, which boasts the largest conventional oil reserves outside the Middle East, vied with Saudi Arabia as the country's leading supplier of oil. 
 Venezuela's oil production has stagnated in recent years and now accounts for about 10 percent of American crude oil imports, ranking behind Canada, Mexico and Saudi Arabia. 
 Seizing on the symbolic potential of the May Day holiday, Mr. Chavez also said this week that Venezuela would end its affiliation with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Venezuela recently paid off its loans from the organizations. 
 Venezuela, which is benefiting from high oil prices even as its oil industry is hampered by low investment, has been seeking to counter the influence of the I.M.F. and the World Bank in Latin America by lending billions of dollars to other countries and trying to create a development bank. 
 Like the I.M.F.'s 184 other member nations, Venezuela is a shareholder in the institution. Mr. Chavez can take back his country's $4 billion stake by withdrawing from the I.M.F. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%) Nationalization of Industry; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States International Relations; Refineries

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (91%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (91%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



39 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Familiar Face Goes Missing This May Day

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: HAVANA, May 1 

 BODY:
The throngs were out in the streets with their red shirts and banners just as they always are on May Day, but Cuba's holiday honoring workers came and went Tuesday without their longtime leader ever showing his face.
 Many of the hundreds of thousands of people who marched through Revolution Square in Havana craned their necks toward the huge podium along the parade route to see if Fidel Castro would make his first public appearance since undergoing emergency surgery nine months ago. 
They saw his brother, Raul, the interim leader, standing stiffly in his army uniform. They saw Ricardo Alarcon, the president of the National Assembly, who occasionally raised his fist in the air, and other leaders of the Communist Party. 
 But nobody could find the bearded leader who has always been there in the past, delivering multihour discourses on the evils of capitalism and the vagaries of Washington.
 ''Is he here?'' asked an older woman in the sea of marchers who was hoisting a sign that said, ''Bush Is an Assassin.''
 ''No, no, no, no,'' said the man marching at her side, a look of disappointment sweeping his face.
 Cuba has had nine months to get used to the fact that their once-omnipresent leader has assumed a far less visible role. Fears that he is dead or dying have been eased by the photographs, proclamations and occasional video clips of Mr. Castro that the government has been releasing. Still, to many Cubans, the country is now in limbo, led by an interim ruler but also, to some degree, by the man who temporarily ceded power to him. 
 Salvador Valdes, secretary general of Cuba's central workers union, the lone speaker at Havana's labor day parade, was the first to suggest to the crowd that Fidel Castro, who underwent intestinal surgery in July, would not be appearing. 
 ''I know I express the unanimous feeling of our people when I send the most fervent wishes for recovery to he who has not only been with us on days like this but has guided us with his proverbial wisdom for more than 50 years,'' Mr. Valdes said. 
 Until those words, speculation had been rife that this would be Mr. Castro's coming out.
 He missed his 80th birthday celebration in August, then missed a make-up birthday fest in December that coincided with the 50th anniversary of the Cuban revolution. More recently, though, Mr. Castro appeared to be bouncing back from an illness that the government still regards as a state secret. 
 He looked less gaunt in photographs from his meeting last week with a top Chinese official, although the official Chinese news agency said the meeting took place in a hospital, not Mr. Castro's office. Commentaries signed by Mr. Castro have been appearing more regularly in Cuban government newspapers, and those who have read past communiques from him say the recent writings appear to match his rambling style. 
 People close to Mr. Castro say he has recently been engaged in some decisions of state even as he continues to recuperate. Felipe Perez Roque, Cuba's foreign minister, said last month that Mr. Castro had resumed some of the leadership responsibilities he had ceded to his brother last year. And President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela said last month that Mr. Castro had ''almost totally recovered'' from his illness and had ''reassumed a good part of his duties.'' 
 Even Bush administration officials who once thought that Mr. Castro was dying from cancer now believe that he underwent surgery for diverticulitis.
 Some fully expected Mr. Castro to appear Tuesday. ''I am certain that on May 1, comrade Fidel will resume his role leading Cuba and Latin America,'' Evo Morales, Bolivia's president and a close ally of Mr. Castro's, said over the weekend.
 But the men around Mr. Castro knew better than to predict his movements. ''I don't have the slightest idea,'' Mr. Alarcon said Monday when asked whether Mr. Castro would appear. 
 ''If it is possible, he'll be there, and if it is not, he won't,'' Economy Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez said cryptically. 
 During Mr. Castro's five decades in power, he missed only two previous May Days, in both cases because he was traveling out of the country. His usual topic is the United States, which he condemns with a fury.
 ''Thank you, Yankee empire,'' Mr. Castro said during a three-hour-plus May Day address in 2006, sarcastically thanking the United States for making the Cuban people tougher with its long trade embargo. He also criticized Washington that year for protecting the Cuban-born militant Luis Posada Carriles, who is accused by Cuba and Venezuela of orchestrating the bombing of a Cuban airliner in 1976, killing 73 people, a charge Mr. Posada denies.
 Mr. Posada, who was recently released on bond by a federal judge in the United States, was also a central focus of this year's event. Cubans have expressed fury that all he has been charged with in the United States is lying on his application for United States citizenship, and many of the marchers carried signs declaring him an assassin for his supposed role in the airplane attack and the bombings of Cuban hotels. 
 Mr. Castro issued a statement on the eve of the parade labeling Mr. Posada a ''terrorist monster'' and calling his release from custody ''incredible.'' 
 ''Prison to the assassin!'' he wrote, an exclamation that on a typical May Day he would have roared. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of thousands of Cubans marched through Havana yesterday, many with posters of Che Guevara. (Photo by Sven Creutzman/Mambo Photography, via Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%) May Day; Parades

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (89%); RAUL CASTRO (79%) Fidel (Pres) Castro; Raul Castro; Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (97%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



40 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14 Bush Vetoes Iraq Bill Containing Timetable President Bush vetoed a $124 billion war spending bill, opening the second round in his battle with Congressional Democrats who are determined to use their budgetary power to force the White House to shift course in Iraq. Mr. Bush said he could not sign the bill because it contained timetables for troop withdrawal. A1 The Iraqi government said that it was investigating reports that the leader of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia had been killed. 
American military commanders said they could not confirm the reports. A10 Turkish Court Blocks Candidate Turkey's highest court blocked a candidate with a background in Islamic politics from being appointed president, pitching the country into early elections and a referendum on the role of religion in its future. A1 Visa Loophole Worries U.S. The ringleader of the thwarted London bomb plot who was recently sentenced to life in prison was a Briton of Pakistani descent and, as a British citizen, could have entered the United States without a visa. American officials, citing the number of terror plots in Britain involving British Pakistanis, have expressed concern over the loophole. A1 Wolfowitz Claim Is Disputed Two former officials at the World Bank disputed the contention of Paul D. Wolfowitz that they knew about his actions on behalf of his companion who was employed there when he joined the bank, according to recently released testimony. A13 NATIONAL A16-19 Immigrants' Rights Rallies Smaller Than Last Year Tens of thousands of people pressing for immigrants' rights demonstrated in dozens of cities across the United States, but with advocates splintered over tactics, the crowds paled in comparison with last year's turnouts. A18 Giuliani Finds Support in Texas For a native New Yorker mounting a first bid for national office, Rudolph W. Giuliani has shown an impressive ability to raise money in Texas, where his Republican presidential campaign collected $2.2 million, far more than any other candidate, during the first quarter of the year. A1 Momentum on a Gun Measure Momentum is building in Congress behind a measure that would push states to report their mental health records to the federal database used to conduct background checks on gun buyers. But a thicket of obstacles have thwarted repeated attempts to improve the reporting of such records. A16 Debate Over Spy Program Senior Bush administration officials told Congress that they could not pledge that the administration would continue to seek warrants from a secret court for a domestic wiretapping program, as it agreed to do in January. A18 Chemical Harmless to Humans Small amounts of melamine anywhere in the American food supply are unlikely to pose much of a threat to humans, toxicologists said. A16 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8 Lax Safety Enforcement In Transit Accidents Transit officials cited lax enforcement of safety rules, as well as failing to set up proper warning signals, as possible factors in two recent accidents that killed track workers. B1 A Scarred Boy's Challenges An 8-year-old Ugandan boy, scarred in a rebel conflict and brought to the United States by an American woman, ended up in a psychiatric ward at a New York City hospital after a breakdown in March at Kennedy Airport. The hospital plans to discharge him soon, and his future is uncertain. B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-16 Murdoch Pursues Dow Jones Rupert Murdoch's media conglomerate, the News Corporation, has made an unsolicited $5 billion offer to buy Dow Jones & Company, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones shares rose more than 50 percent on news of the bid, but members of the Bancroft family, which controls Dow Jones, have indicated they will vote against the proposal. A1 Cablevision Weighs Offer Cablevision Systems Corporation is near a deal to sell the company to its founding family, the Dolans, for about $10.5 billion in cash. The Dolan family failed in three earlier attempts to buy out the public shareholders of Cablevision. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A20-21 Editorials: Spying on Americans; a harsh, healthy verdict in Israel; loopholes and more loopholes; closing the Claremont stables. Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd. Crossword E2 Obituaries C17 TV Listings E9 Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); SENTENCING (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); WIRETAPPING (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); REFERENDUMS (69%); RELIGION (69%); GUN CONTROL (69%); TOXICOLOGY (60%); MEDICAL RECORDS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



41 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: From Spare Parts, a Plan to Make Area in Queens a Gem

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN; Tanzina Vega contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Is Willets Point, the eyesore near Shea Stadium that is known for its auto parts stores, its potholes and its puddles, about to go green?
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg made public a plan yesterday that is intended to transform what he called ''one of the most heavily polluted'' places in the city into ''a dynamic center of life, energy and economic activity, and a model for sustainability and environmental stewardship.''
 The plan calls for razing the existing 61-acre, privately owned business district and replacing it with 5,500 units of housing, 500,000 square feet of office space, up to 1.7 million square feet of restaurants and shops, the city's first convention center outside Manhattan, a 700-room hotel, a school and an eight-acre park. 
 The mayor said Willets Point, which some people call the Iron Triangle, would showcase his recently announced long-range program to turn New York into a greener city while creating housing for an expected influx of nearly one million residents by 2030.
 ''This will be the city's first truly green community, with buildings that use the latest energy-efficient technology and parks and open spaces that give New Yorkers new places to play,'' the mayor said at a news conference at the Queens Museum of Art in nearby Flushing Meadows-Corona Park.
 Fulfilling the city's vision would require uprooting 250 businesses employing about 1,300 people, many of them recent immigrants. But Mr. Bloomberg said the area needed to be redeveloped all at once, because it was badly contaminated with petroleum spills and illegal dumping. 
 The developers, who will not be chosen until the city's rezoning process is completed next year, will be responsible for paying for most of the remediation, Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said. He said he could not estimate how much the city was prepared to spend.
 About four miles from La Guardia Airport, the district called Willets Point -- not to be confused with the geographic point on the East River, next to Little Neck Bay -- is easily accessible by highway, subway and the Long Island Rail Road. 
 Though some of the details were new, the outlines of the city's plan have been known since last year, when the city asked eight developers to submit proposals. 
 Mr. Doctoroff said the developers' responses let the city know what types of uses would be most marketable at the site.
 For decades, going back to the master planner Robert Moses, city officials have viewed Willets Point as a tempting target for redevelopment. 
 But local business owners, some of whom have been in the area for generations, have successfully blocked several previous proposals.
 City officials said yesterday that they would announce a program this summer to help find new locations for the businesses displaced at Willets Point. Job training and financial and technical services will also be offered, they said.
 Mr. Bloomberg said it would not be hard for the city to make a case for acquiring the privately owned land through eminent domain. 
 ''But my hope is that we don't have to use eminent domain at all,'' he said.
 A few hours after the mayor's announcement, the city held a hearing at the Flushing branch of the Queens Library, the first step in developing an environmental impact statement for the project. Amid loud applause, local business owners made it clear that they did not intend to leave without a fight. 
 Outside the library, a couple of hundred people marched with placards reading, ''Hands Off My Business.''
 ''We feel like we've been given a death sentence and we didn't do anything wrong,'' said Joey Antonacci, the owner of Crown Container Company, a rubbish removal business that has operated in Willets Point since 1959.
 But Mercedes Narciso, a senior planner at the Pratt Center for Community Development in Brooklyn, said the proposed redevelopment ''has the potential to generate growth in an equitable manner.'' She said the city needed to make sure that at least half of the housing units were for people of moderate and low incomes and that the community benefited from hiring guarantees.
 However, Dan Feinstein, an owner of Feinstein Iron Works, a family business that has been in Willets Point for 75 years, seemed to speak for more people in the audience. 
 ''Schools are great, housing's great and a convention center is great,'' he said. ''But the only thing that's not great is that they don't own the land they want to put them on.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to redevelop the Willets Point business district in Queens misstated the given name of the owner of the Crown Container Company, one of the businesses in the area, who opposes the plan. He is Jerry Antonacci, not Joey.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Willets Point, known as the Iron Triangle because of its concentration of worn auto-parts and repair shops, will be redeveloped into ''a dynamic center of life'' if Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, above, has his way. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); RELOCATIONS (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); IMMIGRATION (64%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); OIL SPILLS (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Air Pollution; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Relocation of Business

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Terry Pristin; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City; Willets Point (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007



42 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Ousted Thai Premier: Dabbler in Sports, Champ of the Spotlight

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: BANGKOK, May 2 

 BODY:
Ousted as prime minister in a coup last September, Thaksin Shinawatra has made a move to console himself with the purchase of an English soccer club.
 In a statement on Tuesday, he confirmed that he had made an ''indicative proposal,'' a first step toward a possible purchase that allows him to examine the books of the club, Manchester City.
 The news led newspapers on Wednesday in Thailand, where Mr. Thaksin still sometimes steals the limelight from the generals who ousted him, all but taunting them with a show of relaxed good humor. 
 The big news on Tuesday, overshadowing the government's plans for a cabinet shuffle, was that Mr. Thaksin had been elected president of the Professional Golf Association of Thailand, by a lopsided vote of its members.
 That seemed to irritate the junta's leader, Gen. Sonthi Boonyaratglin, whose appointed civilian government has been losing popularity after a series of fumbled economic and political moves and what is widely seen as a lack of force and direction.
 ''It's ridiculous,'' the general said, according to The Nation, a Thai newspaper. ''I think Thais are in a confused condition. Some may not be able to separate what is good from what is bad. Perhaps we should ask a psychiatrist to help them.''
 A government official, Deputy Social Development Minister Poldej Pinpratheep, took it all less seriously, calling both the golf presidency and the bid to buy the soccer club ''a typical gag'' of Mr. Thaksin's. ''It's his style to make news.''
 As he travels around the world, mostly in Asia, Mr. Thaksin plays the part of a relaxed, exceedingly wealthy retiree, grateful to be rid of the burdens of public service.
 Most recently he appeared at the opening of a golf course outside Beijing where he followed the celebrated golfer Jack Nicklaus in taking the ceremonial inaugural tee shots.
 Mr. Thaksin was in New York when the generals ousted him; although they have not barred him from returning, they have strongly discouraged him. Last week, Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said, ''My message to him is: Don't come back.''
 On being awarded what will by necessity be an honorary presidency of the golf association, Mr. Thaksin repeated his assurance that he had ''washed his hands of politics.''
 But he is clearly not retired, having hired American lobbying and public relations firms to advance his interests and, apparently, to keep him in the news.
 On Monday the government struck back, saying it was hiring an American public relations company on a three-month $600,000 contract to polish its own image. Mr. Surayud's pace and unfocused style have led people to call him ''a hermit who raises turtles.''
 Even as its popularity wanes, the government faces a number of challenges as it tries to keep its promise of producing a new constitution and holding elections.
 Opposition has been building on many fronts against the recently completed constitution. It is subject to approval in a referendum, and some commentators here are predicting that it will be voted down.
 That would be taken as a vote of no confidence in the government and would send the country into further crisis, said Giles Ungpakorn, a pro-democracy campaigner.
 ''It would be a clear signal that people don't approve of their handling of the political situation,'' he said. ''If they can't even produce a constitution, and they certainly haven't brought charges against Thaksin, then the question is, why did they stage a coup in the first place?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); SOCCER (89%); GOLF (89%); ATHLETES (78%); LOBBYING (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat ; Public Opinion; Politics and Government

PERSON: Seth Mydans; Thaksin Shinawatra

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) THAILAND (94%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Thailand; Thailand

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



43 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to Hockeyville, Sweden

BYLINE: By IVAR EKMAN

DATELINE: ORNSKOLDSVIK, Sweden, April 27 

 BODY:
Everyone here seems to agree that Victor Hedman is a hockey prodigy. At 16, he not only has the skills, speed and size -- 6-foot-5, 215 pounds -- to be a great defenseman, but, according to his coach, Hedman also possesses that rare, quiet determination that elevates raw talent into stardom.
 So when Hedman is among the top five picks in the 2009 N.H.L. draft, as is widely expected, he will be the pride of this town of 30,000 hockey-loving souls. 
But he will not be the first. The pride will have to be shared with many others. The three players who lead the Vancouver Canucks in points this season all hail from Ornskoldsvik: the Sedin twins, Daniel and Henrik, and the All-Star left winger Markus Naslund. [The Canucks trail the Ducks, three games to one, in the Western Conference semifinals. Game 5 is Thursday night in Anaheim.] 
 Peter Forsberg, the Nashville Predators center who has won the Stanley Cup and Olympic gold, is also from Ornskoldsvik. In the 2002-3 season, 13 N.H.L. players had roots in Ornskoldsvik's local team, Modo, including 7 who were born and raised within a couple of miles of the town. A Swedish economist calculated that, statistically, to produce that many N.H.L. players, Ornskoldsvik should have had about 12 million inhabitants.
 Now a new generation is ready to make its impact on the wider hockey world, spurred by Modo's recent triumph in the Swedish national championships. Seventeen of the team's 23 players were local products, with 6 born in 1986 or later. And Hedman has yet to make the team.
 Among the sports world's talent-breeding hot spots -- from the dusty baseball diamonds of the Dominican Republic to the basketball playgrounds of America's urban areas to the improvised soccer grounds of Brazil -- Ornskoldsvik, which lies near the Arctic Circle, may be the most inconspicuous. Caught between the deep Nordic forests and the Baltic Sea, it is remote, to say the least.
 But with little to offer except a faint smell of rotten fish when the wind blows from the direction of the pulp mill a few miles away, Ornskoldsvik continues to churn out great hockey players like a factory.
 Perhaps there is something in the water here. Or the pizza. Apart from skates, sticks and pucks, the one thing that all of Ornskoldsvik's great hockey sons have in common is that they have fueled their growth with food from the town's unofficial hockey pizzeria, Mammamia. The hockey-loving pizza maker, Giordano Sternad, denies adding a secret ingredient to his pies. But he admits to being an important part of a close-knit hockey community that comprises most of the town.
 ''Here, it's like one big family united in hockey,'' he said, sitting next to his pizza oven, surrounded by hockey memorabilia. When Modo won the national championship April 14, Forsberg, who has given Sternad an autographed jersey each time he has changed teams, called from the United States with instructions to buy 30 bottles of Dom Perignon for the team's celebration at Mammamia.
 If there is such a thing as a father of Ornskoldsvik's hockey family, it is Anders Melinder. For the past 20 years, he has been in charge of the town's hockey high school, working closely with Modo's junior program.
 In 1990, Melinder, a bear of a man with a bushy mustache and piercing blue eyes, visited Minsk, now the capital of Belarus but then still a part of the mighty Soviet hockey machine. There he realized that the Swedish training regimen was, as he put it, ''way behind.'' So he doubled the amount of training his teenage students had to do.
 The new regimen fell on fertile grounds. The generation attending Melinder's school at the time -- each year, 12-15 teenagers are admitted -- included Forsberg, Naslund and Niklas Sundstrom. During workouts and practice games, none of these future N.H.L. veterans would give in.
 ''It was like war,'' said Sundstrom, who played for 10 years in the N.H.L., for the Rangers, the Sharks and the Canadiens, but came back this season to win gold with Modo. ''We pushed each other so hard it was like life and death.''
 According to Melinder, their determination set the tone for the generations of players that came after.
 ''They did what Bannister did when he ran the mile in less than four minutes,'' Melinder said. ''They showed it could be done.''
 Apart from the youth program, people here explain the success with the town's endless playing opportunities -- there are six indoor rinks in the area, and countless open-air places to skate -- and the fact that there is not really much to do except to play hockey. 
 Several of those who have played in the N.H.L. showed great talent in other sports -- the Sedin twins were asked to play for the Swedish junior national team in soccer -- but they chose hockey because, ''hockey is what's close to you here,'' as their father, Tommy, said.
 When Modo won gold -- its first in 28 years -- 8,000 people crowded into the new Swedbank Arena to celebrate. Just as many filled the town's main square. During the past season, the team had an average attendance of close to 7,000 a game -- in a town with 30,000 residents.
 Like Sundstrom, several N.H.L. players have returned to play for Modo. Others, like Forsberg, are investing heavily in the town; Swedbank Arena was partly financed by Forsberg and his father, Kent.
 ''It is almost as if this small town is bigger than its stars,'' said Lennart Hermannson, Modo's junior-program coach and a close friend of Forsberg. ''It lets them be regular guys when they come back here.''
 And now the next generation is coming. On a recent spring day, Victor Hedman was playfully passing the puck in Kempehallen -- the old, rickety hockey stadium where Ornskoldsvik stars played before Swedbank was built -- together with his brother Oscar, a 21-year-old defenseman who played on the winning Modo team and who was drafted by the Washington Capitals.
 Asked what his goal was, Victor said, ''to be part of Modo's regular lineup.''
 And then he added, quietly, ''To begin with.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Victor Hedman, above right, who is expected to be picked high in the 2009 draft, and his brother Oscar, who was taken by Washington, are part of a new generation of stars from Ornskoldsvik. Below, Daniel, far left, and Henrik Sedin, right, are standouts for Vancouver. Peter Forsberg, another native, stars for Nashville. (Photo by Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times)
(Photo by Jeff Vinnick/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press ) Map of Sweden highlighting Ornskoldsvik: Ornskoldsvik, which lies near the Arctic Circle, may be among the most inconspicuous of the sports world's talent-breeding hot spots. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SOCCER (77%); OLYMPICS (74%); BASEBALL (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); PULP MILLS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); PULP INDUSTRY (50%) Hockey, Ice

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); VANCOUVER CANUCKS (83%); NASHVILLE PREDATORS (56%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%)

PERSON: Ivar Ekman

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (90%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); SWEDEN (90%); ARCTIC (85%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (53%) Ornskoldsvik (Sweden)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



44 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM LAGOS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Democracy in Nigeria Falters but Is Far From Dead

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: LAGOS, Nigeria 

 BODY:
Measured one way, Nigeria's democracy took a giant step backward in April. Its state and national elections displayed a disastrous mix of fraud and bungling, managing to be worse, by most accounts, than the seriously marred elections in 1999 and 2003. 
 Observers from the European Union said the elections were not credible; Nigerian observers demanded that they be canceled and held again. 
The president-elect, Umaru Yar'Adua, faces an immediate ''crisis of legitimacy,'' according to the Senate president, Ken Nnamani, a member of Mr. Yar'Adua's party. It is a feeling shared by many Nigerians and analysts, who worry that the country is teetering on the brink of catastrophe. 
 But judged another way, the test is only beginning: will Nigeria navigate the legal and political challenges to the election peacefully, in a way that cements rather than undermines its young democracy? 
 There are reasons to expect that it is better prepared to withstand the weeks ahead than analysts might think. ''Elections do not a democracy make,'' said Chris Fomunyoh, director of Africa programs for the National Democratic Institute, a Washington-based pro-democracy group that works in Nigeria, among other countries.
 While voting is an essential part, Mr. Fomunyoh said, it is only the first and in some ways the smallest part. As recent successful elections in long-suffering, war-torn African nations like Liberia and Congo demonstrate, organizing a transparent and credible election is possible, producing feel-good moments that the world cheers. 
 But building a functioning democracy is a very different task. Congo and Liberia, for example, are shattered nations with few meaningful institutions. Only time will tell if they will become true democracies in which the will of the people can be carried out. 
 Nigeria is much further along that road. Eight years into civilian government after a long spell of military dominance, Nigeria's institutions are blossoming despite the recent electoral chaos. 
 Last year the legislature rejected an attempt by the supporters of the incumbent president, Olusegun Obasanjo, to change the Constitution to allow him to run for a third term, despite considerable pressure from those in the political elite who felt the country was better off sticking with Mr. Obasanjo. 
 Many lawmakers had sectarian reasons for refusing. The unwritten rules, aimed at keeping the peace in a fractious, ethnically and religiously divided nation, dictate that the next president should be a Muslim from the north because Mr. Obasanjo is a Christian from the southwest. But whatever the legislature's motives, it forcefully asserted its independence. 
 The courts have shown similar independence. Mr. Obasanjo's bitter feud with his vice president, Atiku Abubakar, culminated in the president's allies' using corruption charges lodged by an administrative panel to bar Mr. Abubakar from running for president. But a last-minute Supreme Court ruling in his favor returned him to the ballot just before the election. 
 Nigeria's robust civic and religious groups, driven underground by military rule, have blossomed into watchdogs, freely criticizing and even condemning the government's handling of the election. 
 The country's cacophonous news media deployed armies of correspondents across 36 states to bring back reports of stuffed ballot boxes, intimidated voters and phony results. 
 And a cellphone explosion allowed for text messages among poll observers, voters and political parties, making instances of rigging and intimidation in far-flung polling places almost impossible to hide. 
 ''There are certain elements of the evolution of democracy that are moving forward'' in Nigeria, said Madeleine K. Albright, the former secretary of state, who led a team of observers from the National Democratic Institute. ''The electoral element is not.'' 
 But others are, in ways that are unusually robust on a continent struggling for examples of peaceful multiparty rule, Ms. Albright said, and those developments cannot be easily undone in two terrible election days. 
 It has become apparent that the governing People's Democratic Party simply seized the apparatus of democracy -- ballots, boxes, ink and tally sheets -- and rigged its way to victory in a number of places. But the sweeping victories will be challenged in the courts of law and the court of public opinion. 
 The lopsided victory of Mr. Yar'Adua, with 72 percent of the vote, is likely to stand, analysts said, because of its size and the difficulty of proving that the outcome would have been materially different without the cheating. Short of a rerun, he is likely to become president on May 29, when Mr. Obasanjo steps down. 
 But he will face a hostile public and stiff challenges from the newly empowered institutions meant to check executive power in Nigeria. 
 ''What this election has resulted in, ironically, is a significant deflation in the P.D.P.'s ability to lead,'' said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Africa Program at the Center for International and Strategic Studies in Washington. ''They are coming out of this more vulnerable to crisis and less able to govern.'' 
 The power of the party in the national legislature and the states is also likely to be diminished. A number of races for governorships, state assemblies and the national legislature will be challenged in election tribunals. Some victories by the governing party may be overturned. 
 The real problem, analysts say, is that most Nigerians have lost faith in democracy just as it begins to take root within the mechanisms of state. Last year the Afrobarometer public opinion survey showed that satisfaction with democracy in Nigeria plummeted to just 25 percent in 2005, from more than 80 percent in 2000. That reflected a smaller but still significant drop across the 18 sub-Saharan African countries surveyed, from 58 to 45 percent. 
 The deflation was evident among a group of taxi drivers, shoeshine men and hawkers who gathered in the shade of a grimy highway overpass in Lagos. Asked why they had not taken to the streets to protest the election, most said they had no desire to face the powerful military or trigger-happy police officers. 
 ''I am not ready to die for this country,'' said Deloa Lawal, 35, a taxi driver with two young children. 
 Nnaama Idemili, an unemployed accountant, gave another reason, in the form of a Nigerian proverb. It reflected the feeling that allowing the institutions of democracy to do their work would do more good than violent protest, which might prompt the military to intervene and seize power in the name of order. 
 ''A man who breaks a coconut with his head will never eat that coconut with his mouth,'' he said. 
 ''I want Nigeria to change,'' Mr. Idemili explained. ''But we can't destroy the country in the process. Things are moving. We only pray they keep moving in the right direction.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers from Nigeria's Independent National Election Commission sorted ballots in the presidential election on April 21 after the polls closed. Such a scene was rare, and reports of ballot rigging around the country were widespread. (Photo by Christoph Bangert for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CORRUPTION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Elections; Frauds and Swindling; Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (55%)

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (78%) NIGERIA (97%); LIBERIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



45 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes the Stock Does Better Than the Investor That Buys the Stock

BYLINE: By HAL R. VARIAN. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
Stocks have been a great investment in the last 80 years, with an average return of about 10 percent a year. But have investors in the stock market done as well as stocks? Surprisingly, the answer is no. The average dollar invested in the stock market in those years has earned only about 8.6 percent a year.
 The discrepancy between stock market return and investor return is examined by Ilia D. Dichev, a University of Michigan accounting professor, in a paper published in the March 2007 edition of The American Economic Review, ''What Are Stock Investors' Actual Historical Returns? Evidence From Dollar-Weighted Returns.'' 
To understand the difference between a stock's return and an investor's return, consider someone who buys 100 shares of a company at a price of $10 a share. A year later, the share price is up to $20, and the investor buys 100 more shares. 
 Alas, the investor's luck has run out. By the end of the next year, the price has fallen back to $10 and the investor sells his 200 shares.
 A buy-and-hold investor who bought at $10, held the stock for two years, and then sold at $10 would have had a zero return.
 But our friend who tried to time the market did much worse: over the two years, he invested $3,000 in the stock and ended up with only $2,000. E
 ven though the stock broke even, the investor lost money because of bad timing: most of his money was invested right before the market fell.
 To calculate a meaningful measure of the investor's return, it is necessary to weight the yearly returns by the dollars invested during that year.
 When Mr. Dichev calculates the dollar-weighted returns on this stock according to his preferred method, our hypothetical investor's average yearly return ends up being negative 16.8 percent, far below the zero return that the buy-and-hold investor would have received.
 Some mutual fund families and reporting services currently report dollar-weighted returns for individual investors and funds. Mr. Dichev's contribution is to apply this methodology to the stock market as a whole, weighting each month's return by the amount of money invested in the market during that period.
 An investor who bought a value-weighted portfolio of stocks in the New York Stock Exchange and American Stock Exchange in 1926 and held them until 2002 would have earned an average annual return of about 10 percent. 
 By contrast, an individual who bought in 1926 but moved his dollars in and out of the market in the same pattern as the average dollar invested in the market would have earned a return of only 8.6 percent a year. 
 For Nasdaq, the difference between buy-and-hold and dollar-weighted returns is even larger. An investor who bought the Nasdaq index in 1973 and sold in 2002 would have earned an average yearly return of 9.6 percent. But the typical investor in Nasdaq earned only 4.3 percent over this period. This is true not just in the United States -- the same thing occurred in 18 of 19 international markets that Mr. Dichev examined.
 It appears that taken as a whole, investors just aren't very good at market timing. But why?
 There's an old adage on Wall Street: ''Buy on the rumor, sell on the news.'' Unfortunately, small investors do not seem to follow this rule. Terrance Odean, a finance professor at the University of California, Berkeley, has found that small individual investors tend to buy stocks when they are mentioned in the media: they buy on the news. The professional and institutional investors are happy to sell to retail investors in such periods.
 A recent article in The Financial Analysts Journal by Thomas Arnold, John H. Earl Jr. and David S. North, all finance professors at the University of Richmond, called ''Are Cover Stories Effective Contrarian Indicators?'' offers an intriguing finding. 
 The professors look at how a company's stock responds to a cover story in BusinessWeek, Fortune and Forbes. They find that positive stories follow periods of positive performance and negative stories follow periods of negative performance, which admittedly is not too surprising. More interesting, they also find that the appearance of a cover story tends to signal the end of the abnormal performance. Hence, individuals who trade on such ''news'' are not likely to do well.
 This is not to say that articles in the financial press are not worth reading. Quite the contrary. They often provide insightful reporting and in-depth analysis. But by the time the articles have been researched, written and published, they are no longer news -- the market price of the stock already reflects the company's future prospects.
 Taken together, this research offers yet more support for the time-tested investment strategy of buy and hold. Anything that you think is news is old hat to the professionals. Trying to outguess the market is a sucker's game.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day last Thursday, about research into the discrepancy between stock market returns and individual investors' returns, misstated the average yearly dollar-weighted return for a hypothetical investor who bought 100 shares of a company at $10 a share, then a year later bought 100 more shares when the share price was $20, then sold all 200 shares when the price fell to $10 a share at the end of that second year. The investor's average yearly return was a negative 26.8 percent, not a negative 16.8 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: Hal R Varian; Ilia D (Prof) Dichev

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



46 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; CIRCUITS: BASICS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Small and Smaller

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
LONG among the hottest items in Europe and Asia, ultraportable notebook computers -- supercompact, lightweight laptops that slip into briefcases as easily as a legal pad -- appear to be finding favor with American tastes. In cafes and corporate boardrooms and on college campuses, the sleek machines are in growing evidence. 
 Their increasing appeal to Americans, some ultraportable computer makers say, reflects the same attraction as ever-smaller music players and credit-card-size digital cameras, in both styling and mobility.
''The mind-set of the American consumer is changing,'' said Mike Abary, vice president for Vaio product marketing at Sony Electronics in the United States. ''It has come to place more value on mobile products. These ultraportable notebooks are mobile products, like cellphones and MP3 players.'' 
 The small notebooks offer many if not most of the productivity and entertainment features popular in much larger, bulkier computers, like built-in optical drives for CD and DVD use. (Sorry, no high-definition Blu-ray or HD-DVD capabilities yet). They also tend to be more expensive than their larger counterparts -- in some cases, four times as expensive -- with prices just above $2,000.
 The price notwithstanding, ultraportable notebooks can stir techno lust in even the most practically minded. In fact, computer makers say, one of the largest single groups buying ultraportables are businessmen and businesswomen.
 ''People want portability,'' said Michael A. Vorhaus, managing director of Frank N. Magid Associates, a television and entertainment consultant company based in Los Angeles. ''People want BlackBerrys for e-mail and cellphones for text messaging, but that is not enough.
 ''American consumers want a decent-sized screen,'' said Mr. Vorhaus, who noted that a recent online survey indicated that 54 percent of Americans between 18 and 30 own a laptop. ''They want 12- and 11-inch screens that they can slip into a briefcase or a backpack and do everything they want except make calls on it.''
 The diminutive size of the ultraportables -- although not so small to be confused with ultramobile personal computers, or UMPCs, which are practically palm-size -- is not for everyone, said Stephen Baker, vice president for industry analysis at the NPD Group.
 While affirming that ultraportables represent ''a nice concept,'' he questions whether the benefit of a smallish notebook computer is worth its premium price.
 ''It's unclear what that gets you,'' he said. ''A couple of less pounds?''
 Mr. Baker added that he generally considers computers with screens as large as 12 inches not in the ultraportable category. He draws the line at those under 10 inches.
 While a precise definition of ultraportable varies, the broader attributes of the category are as easy to discern as telling a sports car from a sport utility vehicle. Standard notebook computers generally have screens that measure 15 inches or so when measured diagonally (17-inch screens are also popular, many retailers report). Many computer makers, including Toshiba, Sony and Hewlett-Packard, classify ultraportable notebooks as those with screens measuring 12 inches or less. 
 Computer makers note that when laptops have smaller screens, the rest of the computer must adhere to a proportionality that usually forces the keyboard -- as well as the overall size of the computer -- to be smaller than standard. In turn, the body thins and the computer gets lighter. Many ultraportable notebooks weigh around four pounds or less, while an entry-level Dell Inspiron 1501 notebook with a 15.4-inch screen, in contrast, weighs 6.19 pounds.
 In past years, packing components so closely together to achieve what computer makers call a smaller ''footprint'' encouraged many laptop manufacturers to use less powerful microprocessors than those in larger computers to reduce heat and not overtax smaller batteries. But advances in microprocessor design and cooling systems have significantly reduced the need for such striking compromises, especially in the higher-priced ultraportable notebooks, experts say.
 ''We are excited about the fact that laptops can now pack more power into a smaller, more lightweight and energy-efficient package,'' said Karen Regis, manager of the mobile platforms group at Intel.
 Or as Mr. Abary of Sony put it, ''Miniaturization is an art of engineering.'' 
 Showcasing such engineering, he said, is the Vaio VGN-TXN15 by Sony, released this spring. It is part of the company's TX series of full-featured, ultraportable notebooks. The TXN15 has an 11.1-inch screen in a wide (16:9) aspect ratio and weighs 2.8 pounds. Mr. Abary said much of the notebook's economy of size, weight and strength was managed with innovative engineering as well as the use of carbon fiber for its chassis.
 The Vaio TXN15, which costs $2,300, is powered by a 1.2-gigahertz Intel Core Solo Ultra Low Voltage microprocessor and, depending on use, offers a standard battery life of 5 to 11 hours, Sony engineers said. The TXN15 also features a fingerprint security sensor and is equipped with sensors to protect the hard drive if the notebook is dropped or severely jostled.
 Besides its internal read-and-write DVD drive, the TXN15 includes Sony's Instant Mode, which enables quick access to features like the notebook's music and movie playback without running its operating system, Microsoft's Windows Vista. Another extra is its built-in EV-DO system, which uses Sprint's wireless cellular broadband network for mobile Internet access. The TXN15 has more conventional Wi-Fi ability as well. 
 And unlike some ultraportables, the TXN15 has not significantly shrunk its keyboard. Mr. Abary said the keyboard was near full size. 
 Another svelte and sophisticated new ultraportable notebook, the Fujitsu Lifebook P7230, weighs 2.63 pounds, even less than the Sony TXN15, and is encased in a stylish magnesium body. Its screen is smaller, too -- 10.6 inches. This notebook is fully featured and powered by a 1.2-gigahertz Intel Core Solo microprocessor. Depending on a long list of options, its price ranges from $1,650 to $2,180.
 Breaking the three-pound barrier is a major factor in achieving an ''unconsciously portable'' state, said Paul Moore, senior director of mobile products and marketing for Fujitsu Computer Systems. That, he explained, is the top weight so ''you don't realize you have it.''
 Averatec, a South Korean company with an office in Santa Ana, Calif., is a relative newcomer to notebook computers, which it has been making since 2002. The Averatec 2371, its latest ultraportable notebook, which has a 12.1-inch screen and weighs about four pounds, aims to be a solid performer but light on the budget, said Darren Lee, the company's director of product marketing. 
 The 2371 costs $900 to $950, depending on options, and is available on the company's Web site (www.shopaveratec.com) and from other online retailers. This month, Averatec will introduce a smaller and lighter ultraportable, the 3.4-pound 1579, at $1,300.
 Averatec ultraportables, widely available online and at stores like Circuit City, Sam's Club and Staples, cost $850 to $950.
 ''We don't have the buying power of the rest of the guys,'' Mr. Lee said. ''We chose to take a margin percentage hit, and they do not.''
 Like the computers the company makes, he said, ''we are a very small organization.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The new crop of ultraportable computers includes a budget-priced model from Averatec, left
Sony's full-featured Vaio, less than an inch thick, center
 and Fujitsu's 2.6-pound Lifebook. All are equipped with built-in DVD drives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (93%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (88%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNET AUDIO (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); CD & DVD DRIVES (74%); TEXT MESSAGING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%) Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: SONY ELECTRONICS INC (57%); FRANK N MAGID ASSOCIATES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Averatec Inc; Sony Corp; Fujitsu Ltd

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (57%)

PERSON: Michel Marriott

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (88%); ASIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



47 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Reconstruction Is Doomed, Ex-Chief of Global Fund Says

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, May 2 

 BODY:
Reconstruction efforts in Iraq are largely doomed to failure, the former chairman of the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq said Tuesday in an interview. 
 ''Reconstruction is difficult enough in a relatively pacific environment,'' said Michael Bell, a retired Canadian diplomat whose two-year term as chairman ended in March. ''In this environment it is almost impossible, if not impossible. Over all, the picture is dire, dire.''
His assessment followed a report by inspectors from a United States federal oversight agency, the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, that seven projects the United States had declared successes were no longer operating. 
 The United States has contributed to the fund, but the fund has mostly been supplied by the European Commission with contributions from Japan and Canada. It is operated by the World Bank and the United Nations.
 Mr. Bell, who now teaches at the University of Windsor in Ontario, cited as an impediment a desire by the United States and Britain to initially promote high-profile, high-cost projects like repairing utilities, rather than first developing institutions and personnel for their continued operation.
 ''The objective was to improve the conditions of life for Iraqis through infrastructure development so Iraqis would conclude that they were better off and prospering from the new situation,'' Mr. Bell said. ''In retrospect, it was too much, too soon.''
 He also criticized reconstruction plans for making private ownership, rather than government ownership, of infrastructure ''an overriding objective.'' But those plans have been undermined by the widespread instability in Iraq, he said.
 Iraq's insecurity, he said, has created an exodus among skilled Iraqis who had initially returned to rebuild their country. It has also made supervising and completing reconstruction programs almost impossible logistically.
 Even in Basra, where some British forces were being withdrawn after their government concluded that the Iraqis could manage security, Mr. Bell said, the stability needed for reconstruction remained elusive.
 ''The city is controlled by gangs,'' he said. ''It is self-managing in a very primitive way. It is self-managing if you call a protracted series of microwars in the city normal.''
 Mr. Bell criticized Iraq's government for its lack of interest in building institutions, but he rejected arguments that it was responsible for the failure of reconstruction programs.
 ''You can blame the prime minister, you can say the cabinet can't deliver the goods,'' Mr. Bell said. ''But the reality is that nobody can deliver the goods.''
 While the United States initially donated $10 million to the fund, which now totals about $2 billion, Mr. Bell said that it had shown no sign of giving more. He said many programs paid for directly by the United States appeared to have foundered because of a tendency by American officials to keep control.
 ''They go in and tell their guys how to do things,'' he said. ''It's a microcosm of what the Bush administration has tried to do with the intervention. But you can't impose mind-sets.''
 The international fund is considering a reorganization. While Mr. Bell said it should still try to develop institutions in Iraq, he said that basic humanitarian aid, particularly for refugees, might now be more useful.
 But he said the record of reconstruction in Iraq would probably hurt efforts to pay for future projects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%) European Union; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; United Nations

PERSON: Ian Austen; Michael W Bell

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iraq; Canada; Japan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



48 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Wolfowitz's Big Mistake

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Let me offer some advice.
 Let's say you're a Republican appointed to an important job in Washington. You'll probably find that 90 percent of the people who work in your agency are Democrats, as are 90 percent of the media types who cover you and 90 percent of the academics who comment on your work.
 But here's the thing to remember: There are Democrats, and then there are Democrats. A quarter of the Democrats you'll work with are partisans. They believe the rantings of the agitprop pundits, and they'll never be open-minded toward you. But the other three-quarters are honorable, intelligent people. If you treat these people with respect, and find places where you can work together, they will teach you things and make you more effective. If you treat them the way you treat the partisans, they'll turn into partisans and destroy you. 
 The choice seems pretty obvious, yet Republican after Republican mucks this up. Which brings us to the case of Paul Wolfowitz at the World Bank.
 Wolfowitz came to the bank with the heavy baggage of Iraq. Nonetheless, most of the (left-leaning) employees were open to him, and even saw ways his background could help him solve the bank's problems. Furthermore, you have to remember that the bank is staffed by people who are criticized from all directions and are desperate for approval and support. 
 Wolfowitz had an opportunity to be their champion, but he forfeited that opportunity by being aloof. As David E. Sanger and Steven R. Weisman of The Times have detailed, he entered a treacherous swirl of political, institutional and personal currents and navigated them poorly. Having failed to woo the open-minded people at the bank, it was inevitable they'd be out to get him.
 Wolfowitz now argues that the scandal involving his girlfriend's pay raise is ''plainly bogus.'' He tried to recuse himself from her case but was forbidden by the ethics committee. Moreover, last year the committee looked into the general arrangements he'd made for her and concluded ''after careful review'' that the allegations ''do not appear to pose ethical issues appropriate for further consideration by the Committee.''
 Wolfowitz has a point. The conflict of interest charge is out of proportion to the hubbub. But scandals are like that -- they are never about what they purport to be about. The Clarence Thomas scandal wasn't about a hair on a soda can. The Larry Summers scandal wasn't about comments at a conference. Most scandals are pretexts for members of an establishment to destroy people they don't like. 
 In most scandals, people adjust their standards of rectitude, depending on whether they support or oppose the person at issue. The subject's enemies whip themselves into a fever of theatrical outrage, and the subject's defenders summon up fits of indignation at the lies of the accusers. Scandals are playgrounds for partisans, and everybody gets to play the role of the junior high school bully, ganging up on whoever seems weakest and most alone. 
 The Wolfowitz scandal is no exception. People who never called for Kofi Annan to resign amid the $12.8 billion oil-for-food scandal are calling for Wolfowitz's head over a $60,000 raise. Employees at an institution that, according to one report, wasted $300 million last year, and where roughly 1,000 people make $175,000 to $200,000 a year, are suddenly outraged at lavish spending. Editorials and statements by critics around the world are carefully crafted to avoid mentioning any of the exculpatory evidence on Wolfowitz's side.
 There has indeed been an explosion of Machiavellian posturing. But the core reality is the context Wolfowitz allowed to develop. He let potential allies turn into enemies.
 The fact is, you go into politics with the establishment you have, not the establishment you wish you had. For Republicans, this is an establishment that is initially suspicious, but is filled with human beings who can be worked with. They need to feel respected. They need to be consulted on things they know a lot about. If they feel disrespected, they'll cut you no slack, and a small misstep could be career-ending. They will make it impossible for you to do your job.
 This has happened to dozens of Republicans (and unpopular Democrats), and it is happening to Wolfowitz. And the only question is when will these appointees start learning the simple rules of effective democratic leadership?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ETHICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); SCANDALS (88%); LIBERALISM (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%) Ethics; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (51%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (51%) David Brooks; Paul D Wolfowitz; Shaha Ali Riza

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



49 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Global Transactions Aid MasterCard Net

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
MasterCard said yesterday that an increase in international transactions helped lift first-quarter net income by nearly 70 percent, topping analyst expectations. 
 Its shares closed sharply higher, rising $11.50, or 10 percent, to $126.35.
MasterCard, which processes credit and debit card transactions for merchants, said that profit was rising as more consumers use cards to pay for goods and as consumer spending grows globally.
 MasterCard's revenue grew 24 percent, even as the growth of consumer spending in the United States showed signs of slowing. Consumer spending in March grew at its slowest rate in five months.
 But globally, consumer spending still seems strong, said Chris A. McWilton, MasterCard's chief financial officer. Dollar volume in the United States grew nearly 16 percent; in Europe it grew 25 percent; and in South Asia, the Middle East, and Africa it was up 36 percent. 
 International growth has been helped by increased customer travel as well as the fact that more consumers overseas are moving to credit and debit cards and away from cash and checks.
 MasterCard's net income for the quarter ended March 31 rose to $214.9 million, or $1.57 a share, from $126.7 million, or 94 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Analysts had on average expected $1.16 a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Revenue rose 24 percent, to $915 million during the quarter.
 The company's total dollar volume of transactions increased 16.4 percent on a local currency basis, and the number of transactions processed rose 19.4 percent during the first quarter, as the number of MasterCard credit and debit cards grew 11.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEBIT CARDS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (54%) Company Reports ; Credit and Money Cards

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Mastercard International Inc

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); SOUTHERN ASIA (54%); ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



50 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Concern Is High and Unity Hopes Are Nil at Talks on Iraq

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and HELENE COOPER; Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Mona El-Naggar from Cairo.

DATELINE: SHARM EL SHEIK, Egypt, May 2 

 BODY:
Four years ago at this Red Sea resort, leaders of Saudi Arabia and Egypt were photographed as passengers in a golf cart driven by President Bush. The symbolism led to taunting headlines in the region's newspapers.
 But the United States will not be the sole driver at a two-day international conference seeking to bring stability to Iraq that starts here on Thursday. The Bush administration has lost the confidence of Arab allies frustrated with its failure to stop the bloodshed.
While about 60 countries are expected to attend -- evidence of global concern over Iraq -- the competing agendas here suggest that cobbling together an effective, widely accepted strategy will be hard. Officials from participating nations have haggled for days in Cairo over the elements of a communique that the conference plans to deliver.
 The contradictory agendas are numerous, analysts say. Washington wants to help the Shiite Muslim-led government of Iraq, but the Sunni governments of Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia, while eager for stability, do not trust the Shiites with their Iranian links. Egypt wants to increase its role in the process, feeling competitive with the Saudis' growing role. Syria wants a timeline for an American withdrawal; the Iraqis, the Americans and other Arab governments do not. 
 Saudi Arabia has shied away from making the formal overtures toward Iraq that the United States would like to see. King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia last week refused to meet with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq while Mr. Maliki was touring the Persian Gulf states. Saudi officials said that they had been unhappy with the pace of Mr. Maliki's promised reforms, and that in particular they had been frustrated with Mr. Maliki's failure to deal with Sunni concerns. 
 ''The Arabs are in sort of a dilemma, sort of a no-win situation,'' said Abdel Raouf el-Reedy, a former Egyptian ambassador to the United States who served during the Persian Gulf war in 1991. 
 ''They realized that the longer the United States stays in Iraq, the deeper and the more complicated Iraq would become as a problem. On the other hand, if the United States leaves Iraq, there will be a vacuum, and who could fill that vacuum? Iran is the most eligible force to fill that vacuum.''
 The conference offers rare high-level contact between the United States and two governments it has tried to isolate, Iran and Syria, but how extensive their discussions will be is far from clear. 
 The United States has set modest goals for the gathering, hoping to get lenders to forgive 80 percent of Baghdad's $56 billion in foreign debt and declaring the very act of holding the conference a sign of progress. But even those modest goals may run into opposition from some Arab leaders who see any agreement to help the current Iraqi government as a step toward empowering Iran. 
 ''The political significance of having 60 countries there, in what I think will be the first international agreement between Iraq and the world community in decades -- our research certainly hasn't found one since the 1950s -- I think itself is a moment of political significance quite apart from whatever economic/financial result it might entail,'' Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert M. Kimmitt told reporters on Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's plane en route to Egypt. 
 The main players in Sharm el Sheik this week are a guide to the power struggles in the region: the Americans, desperately in need of regional partners; the Iranians, trying to leverage their increased strength; the Iraqis, looking for help from their Arab neighbors while appearing defiant about actually getting it; and an anxious Arab leadership that wants to pull Iraq back out of Iran's orbit.
 ''We have a problem with the Arab countries,'' said Iraq's foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, in an interview in his Baghdad office on the aims of the meeting. ''Their image, their perception of us is not good. If we give them this conference in Egypt it will go down very well.''
 Iraq has become a proxy battlefield for influence in the region between the Shiite Muslim government of Iran and the Sunni-led capitals of the Arab world. While the United States would like to help buttress Iraq's Shiite-led central government, some Arab capitals have been reluctant to offer their support out of concern that they would, in turn, be helping to empower Iran.
 Arab leaders believe that the presence of American troops in Iraq are destabilizing the region, inciting people to adopt the most radical Islamic ideologies. But they fear that a precipitous withdrawal would lead to civil war and give Iran a stronger hand in Iraq than it already has, analysts and former officials said.
 The analysts, and even American diplomats, acknowledge that Iran comes to the negotiations in a strong position, having extended its influence into oil-rich southern Iraq and with close relations with the Iraqi government. It is also aware of the growing pressure on Arab and American officials to have American troops withdraw.
 Ms. Rice is hoping to emerge with an agreement from the international community -- but particularly America's Sunni Arab allies -- to forgive at least 80 percent of Iraq's debt, in exchange for Iraqi commitment to implement economic and political reforms, and to pave over troubles with Iraqi Sunnis. 
 While attendees may verbally pledge 80 percent debt relief, and billions in aid, they will undoubtedly leave a lot of wiggle room so they do not have to actually pay if Iraq does not fulfill promises to reform and reach out to minority groups. 
 Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have agreed to the 80 percent debt relief, but in Kuwait, resistance remains. Kuwait's government has pledged to forgive most of Iraq's $15 billion debt, but that decision has to be ratified by Kuwait's Parliament, and lawmakers there are still resisting helping the country that invaded Kuwait in 1990.
 In return for the aid, Iraq would enact a series of reforms, like better inclusion of the country's Sunni minority in the political process, an oil revenue law, and better legal protections for Iraq's Sunnis and Kurds. 
 Enter -- again -- Iran.
 ''The miracle you need is that somehow the Iranians think it's a good idea to press the Shiite majority government in Iraq to be nicer to the Sunnis in Iraq,'' said George Perkovich, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. ''If you can get all that squared together, then the rest could come together.''
 The addition of Iran -- which is attending in what will be a rare face-to-face for Ms. Rice and her Iranian counterpart -- is bound to divert some of the attention to Washington's contentious relationship with Tehran. Ms. Rice has not ruled out discussions with the Iranian foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, but on her plane ride to Egypt on Tuesday she maintained that she had no plans to seek him out. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Egyptian police officers guarding a resort at Sharm el Sheik where about 60 countries are expected to arrive today to discuss how to stabilize Iraq. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq arrived yesterday in Sharm el Sheik for the two-day talks after visits to Persian Gulf states. (Photo by Nasser Nasser/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); RESORTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); DESERT STORM (71%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Credit

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Michael Slackman; Helene Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) RED SEA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); EGYPT (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); GULF STATES (93%); SYRIA (92%); JORDAN (79%) Iraq; Sharm El Sheik (Egypt); Iran; Syria; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



51 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
 Panel Inclined to Find Wolfowitz Broke Bank Rules Members of a World Bank panel investigating the conduct of Paul D. Wolfowitz, the bank president, are leaning toward finding that he violated bank rules against conflicts of interest when he arranged a raise and promotion for his companion, bank officials said. PAGE A6 Deputy Asks Olmert to Quit The day after a government panel criticized Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's actions in Israel's war last year, his deputy, Tzipi Livni, called on him to quit. But after she said she would work within his Kadima Party to succeed him, Kadima legislators reportedly still backed him. PAGE A10 Justice Department Inquiry The Justice Department is investigating whether a former aide to Alberto R. Gonzales improperly tried to fill vacancies for prosecutors at the agency with Republicans loyal to the Bush administration. PAGE A18 Afghans Fault a U.S. Attack A recent American bombing raid in Afghanistan killed at least 42 civilians, including women and children, and wounded 50 more, an Afghan government inquiry found. PAGE A12 French Candidates Debate In a confrontation that could tip the scales in the vote on Sunday, Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal went after each other in a lively face-to-face debate. PAGE A8 Remembering Barbaro Dr. Dean Richardson, who tried to save Barbaro, last year's Kentucky Derby winner, at work this week. 
 The undefeated Curlin is the early favorite for the Derby on Saturday. SPORTSTHURSDAY, PAGE D1

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); BOMBINGS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: KADIMA (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (72%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); TZIPORA LIVNI (56%); ALBERTO GONZALES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



52 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Investor-to-Be In Starrett City Is Bargaining For New Deal

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Rebuffed by state and federal regulators over his plan to buy Starrett City for $1.3 billion, David Bistricer is now bargaining with the current owner over a lower sale price and devising a plan that he hopes will pass muster with government officials, local politicians and the 14,000 tenants at the vast Brooklyn housing complex.
 If Mr. Bistricer has any chance of success, it now seems critical that he renegotiate his deal with the current owner, Starrett City Associates. Senator Charles E. Schumer and state officials have indicated that a deal is not feasible at $1.3 billion, asserting that such a heady price would force the new owners to increase rents sharply or cut services at the ethnically and economically diverse complex. 
Executives who have talked with Mr. Bistricer's group say that the owner recently said it would consider a new proposal, but it is unclear whether the two sides can come to terms on a lower price for Starrett City, the nation's largest federally subsidized housing complex. 
 The new proposal, which has not been finalized, also involves forging a partnership with the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III of Harlem and devising a way to ensure that the 5,881 apartments at Starrett City will remain affordable to poor and working-class families. Mr. Bistricer, who heads Clipper Equity, also wants to develop mostly market-rate housing on vacant land within the 140-acre complex, which sits on Jamaica Bay between East New York and Canarsie.
 With many New Yorkers increasingly rattled by the price of housing, politicians including Mr. Schumer, Gov. Eliot Spitzer and Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn have come out against the sale. 
 ''As Starrett City goes, so goes the city of New York on the question of affordable housing,'' Mr. Barron said yesterday at a City Hall rally of tenants and housing advocates. ''Not only do we need to preserve affordable housing, we need to build more of it. Otherwise, New York City will turn into a town for the rich.'' 
 He also excoriated Mr. Butts, who heads Abyssinian Development Corporation, a well-regarded housing developer based in Harlem, for working with Mr. Bistricer. 
 ''We're saying to the reverend from Harlem,'' Mr. Barron told a crowd of about 75 people, ''butt out of our business.''
 Mr. Butts disputed a suggestion by Mr. Barron that he was involved simply for the money. ''We are working on something that will answer a lot of the questions that many people have,'' Mr. Butts said. ''I think we will maintain affordability not only for the current tenants but for tenants to come.''
 If an agreement is reached, Abyssinian will have a substantial role in managing Starrett City and in developing new housing on the site.
 For its part, Mr. Bistricer's group insisted that it was not proposing steep rent increases and was supportive of reasonable state legislation that would regulate rents in complexes like Starrett City that are part of the state's middle-class Mitchell-Lama housing program.
 ''Clipper's deal to buy Starrett City will get done,'' said Lisa Linden, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bistricer. ''We are in discussion with many individuals, including Reverend Butts. Our plan is evolving, as well. Its centerpiece remains affordability.'' 
 The secretary for housing and urban development, Alphonso R. Jackson, rejected Mr. Bistricer's first proposal in March, saying it failed to show how the complex would remain a ''viable community for New Yorkers of modest means.'' 
 In April, state officials rejected Mr. Bistricer's second proposal, saying it was unworkable under state housing laws.
 Two weeks ago, Senator Schumer said that a deal at $1.3 billion was not feasible because it would require millions of dollars in additional federal subsidies, which would allow the seller to reap a windfall from the sale. He said Starrett was a successful complex because of huge federal, state and city subsidies since the day it opened in 1974. He suggested that Starrett City Associates hold a new auction or renegotiate the sale price, which he said, should be closer to $900 million or $1 billion.
 The senator's remarks seemed to signal that Mr. Bistricer's deal was dead unless he was able to reopen negotiations over the sale price. Real estate executives who have been briefed by the Bistricer group say that Clipper has talked to the owners and put together a plan that would allow most of the tenants to remain. 
 Mr. Bistricer has also sought to enhance his credibility and political clout by reaching out to Abyssinian Development and Mr. Butts, who knows both Mr. Schumer and Mr. Jackson in Washington.
 But critics remain unconvinced.
 ''The private developers interested in buying Starrett City do not have the best interests of this community in mind,'' said Bertha Lewis, executive director of New York Acorn, a community-building group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); FAMILY (71%) Housing; Starrett City Housing Development (Brooklyn); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Renting and Leasing; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Starrett City Associates

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%) Charles V Bagli; David Bistricer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



53 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Spar Vigorously as French Presidential Vote Nears

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Maia de la Baume contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS, May 2 

 BODY:
He accused her of losing her cool. She accused him of lacking compassion.
 Nicolas Sarkozy on the right and Segolene Royal on the left went after each other Wednesday evening in the kind of vivid confrontation that has disappeared from the American scene, where the candidates avoid one another as much as possible.
The two-and-a-half-hour televised debate could determine the outcome of the French presidential election on Sunday.
 At times, the candidates seemed like they were more in a local race than vying for the presidency of a nuclear power with the sixth-largest economy. Iraq and France's relationship with the United States, for example, never came up. Domestic issues, like the wisdom of the 35-hour workweek, public spending for the police and hospitals, and fighting crime took up more time than how to shape the identity of France. 
 Mr. Sarkozy, 52, the son of a Hungarian immigrant with minor aristocratic roots, and Ms. Royal, 53, the daughter of a career army officer, faced different challenges. Mr. Sarkozy had to avoid looking like a sexist bully; Ms. Royal had to prove herself presidential.
 Mr. Sarkozy, the former interior and finance minister, had to fight off the demon that has tormented him: his image as an authoritarian figure with a volatile temper. For Ms. Royal, the debate was her last chance to turn around polls that consistently put Mr. Sarkozy in the lead.
 The two candidates are competing for the nearly seven million voters who chose the centrist third-place candidate, Francois Bayrou, in the first round. Mr. Bayrou has refused to endorse either candidate. 
 Another variable is whether the nearly four million voters who voted for the far-right candidate, Jean-Marie Le Pen, in the first round will heed his call to ''abstain en masse,'' a move that could pull votes away from Mr. Sarkozy.
 Ms. Royal, aware that this was her chance to prove that she is of greater substance than her critics paint her, was on the offensive from the start, repeatedly interrupting Mr. Sarkozy with the line, ''Let me finish.''
 Mr. Sarkozy kept his temper in check, speaking more slowly and in a more modulated voice than usual. 
 Toward the end of the debate, Ms. Royal became agitated during a discussion of educating disabled children. She argued that the right had undone the good work that the left had been trying to do, and cast Mr. Sarkozy's position as ''the height of political immorality.''
 She accused him of playing the compassion card even though his government had not delivered needed services, indignantly telling him he had described the plight of handicapped children ''with a tear in your eye.''
 Mr. Sarkozy grabbed the opportunity to bore in on his point that she could not lead France in such a temperamental fashion.
 ''Calm down,'' he told her.
 ''No, I will not calm down,'' she replied.
 ''Do not point at me with this finger, with this----'' he said.
 ''No. Yes,'' she said.
 ''With this index finger pointed, because frankly----'' 
 ''No, I will not calm down,'' she said. ''No, I will not calm down. I will not calm down.''
 ''To be president of the republic, you have to be calm,'' he said.
 She responded: ''Not when there are injustices. There are angers that are perfectly healthy because they correspond to people's suffering. There are angers I will have----''
 He said, ''Madame Royal, would you allow me to say one word?''
 She finished her sentence: ''Even when I am president of the republic.''
 His voice took on a patronizing tone. ''I don't know why the usually calm Madame Royal has lost her nerve,'' he said.
 Mr. Sarkozy repeatedly tried to paint Ms. Royal as uninformed. She tried to paint him as overbearing. There was equal-time interruption.
 Making this race even more compelling, political analysts were divided on who had ''won'' the debate, Sego or Sarko, as they call them here. 
 Mr. Sarkozy got points for not losing his temper. But Ms. Royal's losing her temper caused different reactions. Some found it exhilarating, a sign that the left would not be complacent. Others found it unnerving. No one found it boring.
 ''Sarkozy has lost,'' said Dominique Reynie, a professor of political science at Institut d'Etudes Politiques in Paris. ''He didn't dominate the debate even though he's been the super-favorite since the beginning.''
 Nicole Bacharan, a political analyst at the same institute, said: ''For me the winner is Sarkozy, it's clear. Segolene was the challenger. She had more to prove. She was strong but Sarkozy invoked precise facts, in a more pragmatic and less ideological manner.''
 Ms. Royal repeatedly interrupted Mr. Sarkozy to get him to stop interrupting her, saying, ''Let me finish,'' and things like, ''Please stop interrupting me because I know your strategy really well.''
 But Mr. Sarkozy was also stopped short in mid-sentence over and over. 
 ''Will you let me finish?'' he asked at one point.
 ''No,'' Ms. Royal said.
 ''Ah,'' Mr. Sarkozy replied.
 By midway, Ms. Royal's perpetual smile disappeared from her face. Their tone was reminiscent of a couple bickering at the breakfast table, with the husband barely restraining his sense of superiority and the wife attacking him for not listening to her.
 ''You understand me perfectly but you pretend you don't understand,'' Ms. Royal told her rival.
 Even though she has a reputation of being condescending in meetings, she accused him of being condescending. Even though he has the reputation of losing his temper, she was the one who lost her temper during the debate.
 During an argument about nuclear power, for example, Ms. Royal played schoolteacher, asking Mr. Sarkozy, ''Do you know how much of electricity consumption in France comes from nuclear power?''
 When Mr. Sarkozy said it was 50 percent, Ms. Royal corrected him, saying it was 17 percent. To that, Mr. Sarkozy replied, ''No, Madame, that is not correct.''
 She lectured him ''Go do your homework.''
 He argued back, ''I may not be very informed about the issue, but I'm consistent.''
 Indeed, both were wrong: the answer is close to 80 percent.
 Even though her attempt to appeal directly to women has not resonated, Ms. Royal pressed many women's issues throughout the debate.
 She raised the case of a police officer who was raped recently in a Paris suburb because, Ms. Royal said, the money had been cut for her to have a partner.
 She proposed retirement benefits for stay-at-home mothers. She described ''choosing to raise one's children as, after all, the most beautiful profession.''
 Ms. Royal, who has often been accused of making factual errors, struggled to prove she was right.
 ''Let's go to the bitter end on every issue,'' she said. She also said, ''I know all the topics well.'' 
 While they were speaking about the economy, she summed up her philosophy of leadership, saying, with a little smile, ''I will be the president of what works.''
 Mr. Sarkozy replied, caustically, ''People don't vote for us to go complicate what works, but on the contrary, to fix what doesn't.''
 Still, Mr. Sarkozy was gracious at the end, expressing his respect for Ms. Royal's ''talent and competence.'' But she kept her distance, saying, ''I abstain from personal judgments.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the left, physically and politically, Segolene Royal squared off last night to debate the conservative candidate, Nicolas Sarkozy, at right. (Pool photo by Thomas Coex) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); CHILDREN (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); ARMIES (55%) Debating; Elections; Election Issues; Politics and Government 

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (92%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (91%); FRANCOIS BAYROU (58%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (55%) Elaine Sciolino; Nicolas Sarkozy; Segolene Royal

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (77%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



54 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14 Iraqi Kurds and Sunnis Wary of Proposed Oil Law Kurdish and Sunni Arab officials expressed deep reservations about the draft version of a national oil law and related legislation, misgivings that could derail one of the benchmark measures of progress in Iraq laid down by President Bush. A1 Afghan Ire Over U.S. Airstrikes Aerial bombing in Afghanistan by the American military killed at least 42 civilians several days ago, an Afghan government investigation found. A12 Deputy Asks Olmert to Resign Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni of Israel, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's deputy, called on him to resign after a critical government report about his management of the war with Hezbollah last summer. A10 Bad Signs for Wolfowitz Members of a World Bank committee investigating the conduct of Paul D. Wolfowitz, the bank president, are leaning toward finding that he violated the institution's rules against conflicts of interest. 
 A6 Court Issues 2 Darfur Warrants Judges at the International Criminal Court in The Hague have issued arrest warrants for two Sudanese, the first to be charged with grave atrocities in Darfur, the court said. A10 Iran Charges Critic as Spy An Iranian who has been a prominent critic of the country's nuclear policies for two years was arrested this week on spying charges, a semiofficial news agency reported. A3 NATIONAL A16-21 Republicans Split on Bush As They Prepare to Debate As the Republican presidential candidates gather for their first debate, the question of how to deal with President Bush is vexing the field as much as Iraq, health care or any other issue. A1 Justice Department Inquiry The Justice Department is investigating whether a former senior adviser to Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales improperly tried to fill vacancies at the department with Republicans loyal to the Bush administration, officials said. A18 Baltimore to Track Guns With violent crime rising sharply in Baltimore, Mayor Sheila Dixon announced plans to form a task force on illegal guns and start a system to track where and when guns have been used in crimes. A19 Texas Fires Youth Workers An investigation into sexual abuse and mismanagement at the Texas Youth Commission has led to the dismissals of 66 employees with records of felony charges or arrests, including one who was convicted of homicide, the state official leading the inquiry reported. A16 SCIENCE/HEALTH Calls for New Drug Warnings The Food and Drug Administration ordered drug makers to add warnings to antidepressant medications, saying the drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking or behavior in some young adults. A17 NEW YORK/REGION B1-7 Thousands Mourn Trooper Shot in Confrontation About 5,000 law enforcement officers gathered in an Albany suburb to mourn David C. Brinkerhoff, a New York State trooper who was killed by a fellow trooper during a confrontation with an armed man in a Catskill farmhouse. B1 Highflying Plan for Pier 40 Pier 40 on the Hudson River in Manhattan would become home to a large entertainment complex with permanent facilities for the Cirque du Soleil and the Tribeca Film Festival under a developer's $626 million proposal. But detractors call the proposed complex ''Las Vegas on the Hudson.'' B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-15 Board Tables Dow Jones Bid Dow Jones, the owner of The Wall Street Journal, announced that it was taking no action on a surprise $5 billion offer from Rupert Murdoch, the media baron who runs the News Corporation, because members of the controlling Bancroft family, holding 52 percent of the company's votes, oppose it. C1 Tainted Gluten Not Inspected A Chinese company accused of selling contaminated wheat gluten to American pet food suppliers avoided inspections partly because it did not correctly disclose its shipping contents to Chinese export authorities for inspection, according to American regulators. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A22-23 Editorials: Reforming the F.D.A.; an exit strategy for Guantanamo; toward a federal shield law; unwanted folk. Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert. Bridge E10 TV Listings E11 Crossword E2 Weather C16 Obituaries B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GUN CONTROL (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); HEZBOLLAH (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); FELONIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ESPIONAGE (66%); DISMISSALS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (63%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (63%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); SUICIDE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (55%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ALBERTO GONZALES (56%); TZIPORA LIVNI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SUDAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



55 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Fight Brews Over Plans To Reinvent Hudson Pier

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
A Hudson River pier built for ocean liners but now used mainly as a parking garage would become home to a large entertainment complex with permanent sites for the Cirque du Soleil and the Tribeca Film Festival as part of a proposal that has encountered significant opposition in Greenwich Village.
 The $626 million plan by the Related Companies to turn sleepy Pier 40 -- now the site of the garage and a few sports fields -- into a cultural complex attracting 2.7 million visitors annually has been derided by its opponents as ''Las Vegas on the Hudson.'' 
In addition to a theater for the Cirque du Soleil and a 12-screen cinema, the plan for the pier calls for an 1,800-seat music hall, a 28,650-square-foot event space and a glass-enclosed winter garden, as well as shops, restaurants, more athletic fields and more than 2,000 parking spaces. The proposal originally included a 15,000-square-foot ''beach club'' modeled after the SoHo House, a members-only club in the meatpacking district, but that idea has been scrapped.
 A public hearing on the proposed complex, called the Pier 40 Performing Arts Center, is scheduled for tonight. A coalition of Greenwich Village groups have vowed to quash the plan, setting up a potential showdown between residents of one of the city's most activist neighborhoods and Related, one of the city's most politically connected developers.
 Opponents of the plan say a performing arts center would bring traffic congestion and pollution, clash with the scale of the neighborhood and relegate popular athletic fields to a windy area on the two-story pier building's roof.
 ''I think every strata of the neighborhood is opposed to this: the old guard, who has sought to retain the area's character, the newcomers who live in the new buildings, the sports leagues who want more recreation space,'' said Andrew Berman, the executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation. ''There aren't many things they all agree on, but this is one.''
 But Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for the Related Companies, said the plan would increase the amount of park space and could avoid creating traffic problems that would spill into the rest of the neighborhood.
 ''This plan could be a real win for New York and a true amenity to life downtown,'' Ms. Rose said in a statement. ''It increases the amount of space available for recreation by over 40 percent, while offering tremendous access to the waterfront, over five acres of passive open green spaces and vibrant cultural amenities, including a home for the Tribeca Film Festival.'' 
 A competing consortium of developers has proposed a second plan, which would cost $145 million and would be known as the People's Pier. The plan, which has drawn less community opposition, calls for building a high school, three swimming pools, shops and restaurants and additional space for parks and athletic fields.
 The Hudson River Park Trust, the city-state agency that operates the park that surrounds Pier 40, said it must develop the pier to generate revenue for the upkeep of the five-mile park, which snakes along the Hudson from Chambers Street to 59th Street and is still under construction.
 The park, chartered in 1998, was intended to be self-sustaining, with most of its revenue coming from activities on its piers. For example, the garage on Pier 40 brings the trust about $5 million annually. Each development proposal for Pier 40 would add several hundred parking spaces to the 1,800 already there.
 ''The question of that site for me is, How do we create a proposal that has economic viability, jobs and revenue for the rest of the park?'' said Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, who appoints three members to the trust's 13-member board of directors. ''We have to have something that does not overwhelm the park and the neighborhood.'' 
 Pier 40 was built in 1954 for the Holland America Line as a commercial shipping terminal, but that function was made obsolete by commercial air travel.
 The 14-acre pier, at West Houston Street, was used for storage, offices and a bus depot before it was converted to a public parking garage. In 1999, a soccer field was built atop the pier building, and other sports fields and park space have since been added. A trapeze school established at the pier several years ago would be retained as part of both proposals. 
 Over the years, plans to build a hotel, apartments, a flower market and a branch of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum at the pier have been proposed and rejected. 
 In 2003, the park trust called for new development ideas, but eventually rejected proposals for museums, television and film studios and an aquarium. One of the proposals, a plan to put a ''big box'' retailer on the pier, led to particularly fierce opposition in the neighborhood.
 ''You have a lot of people who border the park with an interest in having something developed that is great, and is worthy of the New York City waterfront,'' said Christopher W. Martin, vice president of the park trust. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 3 about plans to redevelop Pier 40 on the Hudson River into an entertainment complex misstated the year the pier was built as a commercial shipping terminal for the Holland America Line. It was 1963, not 1954.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Under a proposal for Pier 40 on the Hudson River, a parking garage would become an entertainment center housing the Cirque du Soleil. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); FILM (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (75%); RIOTS (73%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%) Piers; Area Planning and Renewal; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: Related Companies

PERSON: Timothy Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007



56 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: In Search of the Master Teacher

 BODY:
 To the Editor: 
 In ''Gold Stars and Dunce Caps'' (column, May 1), Nicholas D. Kristof makes a crucial point about the importance of decent teachers. Bonuses for capable, caring teachers willing to teach poor children would certainly begin to redress some of the truly grotesque imbalances in schools.
 But his call to end teacher certification programs instead of investing in improving teacher education is shortsighted. 
Marilyn Cochran-Smith, Linda Darling-Hammond, Pamela Grossman and other thoughtful researchers have argued -- contrary to the Hamilton Project report Mr. Kristof cites -- that quality teacher education makes a demonstrable difference in teachers' practice, and in their willingness to stay in the profession.
 Our current school reform era has failed to demonstrate any cheap shortcuts around the need for well-supported apprenticeships. Joseph Featherstone Gloucester, Mass., May 1, 2007 The writer is a professor of teacher education, Michigan State University. To the Editor:
 We travel around the country helping urban and rural high schools increase college enrollment rates for economically disadvantaged students. The principals and administrators we meet say that what they need are teachers who love students. 
 Yes, they admit, a teacher needs the most sophisticated tools and curriculums, as well as expertise in psychology, neuroscience, pedagogy, learning differences and academic standards. But it is the teacher who has the greatest capacity to care and to connect with the students who makes the biggest difference.
 One Buffalo school principal said, ''The school district cannot mandate what matters, and what matters most is the ability to love the students.'' 
 Where do we find such teachers, and how can schools of education deliberately begin to cultivate their students' souls? Keith W. Frome Buffalo, May 1, 2007 The writer is the national director of education for College Summit, a nonprofit group. To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof notes the enormous problems facing our schools, especially the ''gulfs of poverty and race.'' So why does his solution fall solely on the teachers? 
 How will a stricter tenure process or merit pay solve the huge structural inequalities facing poor inner-city students, who must contend with poverty, racism, decrepit buildings, outdated materials, gangs, a culture that devalues education and lower levels of school financing based on local property taxes? 
 Only when we recognize that teacher quality is just one part of an enormous problem for which we are all accountable will the pervasive education problems in America begin to change. Libby Anker Berkeley, Calif., May 1, 2007 To the Editor:
 After graduating from a public high school, I spent a year in Germany as an exchange student at a college-preparatory gymnasium. 
 In Germany and many other countries, students attend one of several types of public secondary schools, which tailor curriculums to the career goals of individual students. 
 In the United States, high schools shortchange students who are not college bound by failing to provide adequate opportunity to learn practical skills before entering the work force.
 Only through practical curriculum reform can we prepare students for the real world, not just for the decision to either work toward college or drop out of high school. Brian Highsmith Columbia, S.C., May 1, 2007 To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof calls on presidential candidates to adopt three ideas for improving schools. Here's another: 
 College students studying to be teachers should begin freshman year spending half-days with a master teacher. During the second half of the day, they could take their core college courses.
 At the end of a year, students would (a) know that they didn't want to go into teaching and should major in something else or (b) know what a master teacher is and strive to become one. Sam Daley- Harris Washington, May 1, 2007 The writer is director of Microcredit Summit Campaign and founder of Results, a nonprofit group that fights poverty. To the Editor:
 There are ineffective teachers, of course. But what we need are more teachers' colleges, because being highly qualified in a subject area means little in most classrooms. What matters, especially in poorer areas, are smaller classes and being able to connect to students and reel them in -- something that isn't taught as part of a science or math major.
 If we want to improve education, we need to throw away the century-old factory model and make a major financial investment in our future. Unfortunately, we would rather buy some new bling than invest in our children. James Siegel Portland, Me., May 1, 2007 To the Editor:
 I retired to South Carolina in 2004 after 35 years as a teacher, administrator and superintendent in New York. I have permanent New York certification in secondary English, special education and as a school district administrator. 
 Thinking I might teach in South Carolina, I applied for information on certification. I learned that I would need to do the following: fill out an application; submit original college transcripts; submit teacher examination scores from the Educational Testing Service (to ensure that I was ''highly qualified''); submit an F.B.I. fingerprint card; submit recommendations from the college where I completed my teacher preparation (36 years ago). There was more, along with a $75 fee. 
 I am enjoying my full retirement! Peter Bowers Aiken, S.C., May 1, 2007 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tamara Shopsin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (94%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CURRICULA (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); WRITERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); MERIT PAY (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); RURAL SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (76%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Wages and Salaries; Education and Schools; Tenure; Bonuses; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Joseph Featherstone; Keith W Frome; Libby Anker; Brian Highsmith; Sam Daley-Harris; James (Lr Writer) Siegel; Peter Bowers; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (88%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



57 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: For the Love of Barbaro And the Love of Money

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

 BODY:
For the past year, the beleaguered industry of thoroughbred racing has been living off the image of Barbaro, first as Kentucky Derby champion, then as gallant patient, now as sainted memory.
 The last thing racing needs is to debase the name of Barbaro with a gimmick, but that is the effect of the new $1 million bonus should tomorrow's Derby winner beat Barbaro's superb margin of six-and-a-half lengths.
It was bad enough to see Barbaro stumble after leaving the gate at the Preakness last year, but now racing has set up the crass scenario of another 3-year-old's being prodded toward a few more inches of daylight between himself and the runner-up. 
 ''Nobody's going to abuse his horse in this race,'' said Robert Evans, the president and chief executive of Churchill Downs, the host of the Derby. 
 ''The economics are too much,'' Evans added, referring to breeding rights and Triple Crown possibilities for the Derby winner. 
 Evans makes a good case for the Derby's being virtually a different sport from a cheap claiming race at a low-scale track in the boondocks. But the most vulnerable link in this bonus challenge would be the jockey, who theoretically could envision a quick $250,000 share for himself with one flick of the whip. 
 The consequences could come immediately with a misstep in the home stretch or in the days after the Derby, in the form of a twinge or a major injury. And all in the name of poor, deceased Barbaro. Thousands of instant racing fans sent flowers and get-well cards and donations to equine research after Barbaro fractured his right hind leg at the Preakness and fought for life before being euthanized on Jan. 29.
 Now, on the first anniversary of Barbaro's glorious two minutes, the $1 million bonus has been offered by a Louisville-based company, Yum! Brands Inc. -- exclamation point and all -- which owns fast-food chains including KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut. All that salt and cholesterol must have clogged somebody's creative arteries because the bonus has been given the perfectly ghastly name of Yumfecta. 
 Surpassing Barbaro's margin will not be easy. Four past winners, none in the past 60 years, won the Derby by eight lengths, followed by Barbaro's six-and-a-half lengths. 
 ''Usually, the horse is just cruising,'' said Evans, who cited Secretariat's 31-length victory in the 1973 Belmont -- one of the great statistics in all of sports -- as a tribute to the great red horse rather than any last-second goading by the jockey, Ron Turcotte.
 The real issue on the first Saturday in May is whether emphasizing margin of victory is a good idea for 3-year-olds who are increasingly bred for speed rather than endurance. 
 The bonus would be divided equally four ways -- to the winning owner, trainer and jockey, as well as to the Barbaro Memorial Fund, which has been organized to study and improve the care of horses. 
 ''Yum is a great corporate citizen,'' said Alex Waldrop, the president of the National Thoroughbred Racing Association, the national governing body of the industry, adding that Yum may not have understood ''all the nuances.''
 Around the backstretch yesterday in a thoroughly dismal rain, some of the biggest names in racing discussed those nuances.
 ''The whole message is wrong to me,'' said D. Wayne Lukas, who has won four Derbies but does not have a Derby horse this year. ''There are so many things you could do with $1 million,'' he added. 
 Barclay Tagg, who won with Funny Cide in 2003 and is back with Nobiz Like Shobiz, said he would have no problem accepting his share of the bonus, but quickly added, ''I would rather win a Triple Crown without the bonus.'' 
 Angel Cordero Jr., one of the most competitive jockeys ever, who won the Derby three times and now works horses for Todd Pletcher, who has five entrants, said: ''I'm all for it. You're not going to see a jockey beating up a horse. They're going to do what a jockey always does.''
 Larry Jones, the trainer of Hard Spun, said that if his jockey put pressure on his horse to win the bonus, ''I'd say, 'nice race' -- and then we'd go into a back stall and have a conversation.'' Jones added that he did not think the officials ''did anything wrong'' by putting in the bonus. ''It's more like they're saying, 'We'll give you $1 million extra for a great performance.' ''
 The problem is that the great performance has been quantified. The railbirds -- a wealthy set of railbirds on this day, to be sure -- could demand a bonus-level performance, the way pro basketball patrons clamor for a team to score 100 points to qualify every ticket-holder for a free calorie-laden time bomb of a fast-food burger, always one of the more noble moments in contemporary American life.
 Plus, fans could be betting on the margin of victory -- some extra mischief in a business built more on action than on pure affection for a horse. With any luck, we will have a close finish in the Derby and nobody will collect the bonus, which will then vanish as merely another corporate huckster scheme, grubbily tacked onto the image of a beloved champion. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbaro, left, won the Derby by six-and-a-half lengths but was hurt in the Preakness. (Photo by Al Behrman/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS FANS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); BONE FRACTURES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); FAST FOOD (66%); CHOLESTEROL (62%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Horse Racing; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Kentucky Derby; Preakness Stakes

COMPANY: YUM! BRANDS INC (81%); PIZZA HUT INC (52%); TACO BELL CORP (52%)

TICKER: YUM (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (81%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (81%)

PERSON: George Vecsey

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



58 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE LISTINGS MAY 4 - MAY 10; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 16364 words

 BODY:
Selective Listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition. Theater Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 
 Previews and Openings 'DIXIE'S TUPPERWARE PARTY' In previews; opens on Thursday. Dixie Longate has left her Alabama trailer park to sell Tupperware in New York in this irreverent comedy (1:15). Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. 'DEUCE' In previews; opens on Sunday. The grandes dames Angela Lansbury and Marian Seldes play retired tennis players in this new Terrence McNally comedy. Michael Blakemore directs (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. 'GASLIGHT' Previews start on Wednesday. Opens on May 17. The always fascinating Brian Murray stars in Patrick Hamilton's thriller about a man who drives his wife insane (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. 'MEMORY' Previews start tomorrow. Opens on Thursday. Part of the increasingly essential Brits Off Broadway festival, a new play by Jonathan Lichtenstein (''The Pull of Negative Gravity''), about the way people choose to remember events, reveals how the Holocaust still haunts the present. Terry Hands directs (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. '110 IN THE SHADE' In previews; opens on Wednesday. Audra McDonald stars in the Roundabout's revival of the musical version of N. Richard Nash's ''Rainmaker.'' Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. 'PASSING STRANGE' In previews; opens on May 14. The Joe's Pub veteran and pop singer Stew tries his hand at musical theater, with a rock-theme score and a story about the journey of a black bohemian (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. 'RADIO GOLF' In previews; opens on Tuesday. The last play in August Wilson's cycle is set in 1997 and centers on the vital question of what will be done with the fabled Aunt Esther's house. Tonya Pinkins (''Caroline, or Change'') stars (2:30). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. Broadway 'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) * 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA' Lincoln Center Theater's brave, gorgeous, sprawling and ultimately exhilarating production of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about intellectuals errant in 19th-century Russia. A testament to the seductive powers of narrative theater, directed with hot and cool canniness by Jack O'Brien and featuring a starry cast (Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Martha Plimpton, Josh Hamilton and Ethan Hawke, among others) in a tasty assortment of roles. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'CORAM BOY' Set in 18th-century England, this rollicking melodrama about imperiled orphans is big and broad but not particularly deep. With a cast of 40, an orchestra in the pit and bursts of choral music (Handel, mostly) decorating the proceedings, it is tastefully splashy and certainly impressive, but less emotionally engaging than you might hope (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood) 'CURTAINS' This musical comedy about a musical-comedy murder -- featuring songs by John Kander and Fred Ebb and a book by Rupert Holmes -- lies on the stage like a promisingly gaudy string of firecrackers, waiting in vain for a match. The good news is that David Hyde Pierce, playing a diffident Boston detective, steps into full-fledged Broadway stardom. Scott Ellis directs a talent-packed cast that includes Debra Monk and Karen Ziemba. (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'FROST/NIXON' Frank Langella turns in a truly titanic performance as Richard M. Nixon in Peter Morgan's briskly entertaining, if all-too-tidy, play about the former president's annihilating television interviews with the British talk show host David Frost (the excellent Michael Sheen). Michael Grandage directs with the momentum of a ticking-bomb thriller and the zing of a boulevard comedy (1:40). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'INHERIT THE WIND' Doug Hughes's wooden revival of this worthy war horse, based on the Scopes ''monkey'' trial of 1925, never musters much more velocity than a drugstore fan. Be grateful that the cast includes Christopher Plummer, in savory form as a Will Rogers of jurisprudence. An oddly subdued Brian Dennehy plays his pompous adversary (2:00). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'JOURNEY'S END' A splendid revival of R. C. Sherriff's 1928 drama of life in the trenches during World War I. Acutely staged (by David Grindley) and acted by a fine ensemble led by Hugh Dancy and Boyd Gaines, this production offers an exemplary presentation of that theatrical rarity, an uncompromising, clear-eyed play about war and the experience of day-to-day combat. An essential ticket (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'LEGALLY BLONDE' This nonstop sugar rush of a musical about a powder puff who finds her inner power-broker, based on the 2001 film, approximates the experience of eating a jumbo bag of Gummi Bears in one sitting. Flossing between songs is recommended (2:20). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'A MOON FOR THE MISBEGOTTEN' Kevin Spacey gives a bizarre, beat-the-clock performance, as lively as a frog on a hot plate, as James Tyrone in this off-kilter revival of Eugene O'Neill's last play. Mercifully, he does not block the view of Eve Best, who maps the contradictory levels of Tyrone's strapping love interest with clarity and intelligence (2:50). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'THE PIRATE QUEEN' How to river-dance your way to the bottom of the ocean, courtesy of the songwriters of ''Les Miserables'' (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) * 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) * 'TALK RADIO' The most lacerating portrait of a human meltdown this side of a Francis Bacon painting. Playing an abrasive radio talk show host with a God complex, the astounding Liev Schreiber seems to fill the air as inescapably as weather in Robert Falls's gut-grabbing revival of Eric Bogosian's 1987 play (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING' Joan Didion's arresting but ultimately frustrating adaptation of her best-selling memoir about being blindsided by grief, starring Vanessa Redgrave. The tension between style and emotional content that made the book such a stunner does not translate to the stage. The substance here is in the silences, when the focus shifts from words to Ms. Redgrave's wry, wounded face (1:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway 'ALL THE WRONG REASONS: A TRUE STORY OF NEO-NAZIS, DRUG SMUGGLING AND UNDYING LOVE' John Fugelsang's amiable solo show mixes memoir and stand-up comedy in a tale of family, faith and Roman Catholic guilt. Slight but engaging (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475. (Isherwood) 'AMERICAN FIESTA' The economist, consultant, preacher and playwright Steven Tomlinson makes his New York stage debut with a one-man show about how it was that he came to collect Fiestaware, the colorful china of the Depression years, which he deploys as a metaphor for just about everything. An astute observer of consumer obsession, Mr. Tomlinson ultimately subordinates much of his clever writing to a tepid and trite political message: that American civic life is a fractured bowl that needs to be put back together right now. American Fiesta is also about gay marriage, eBay and neuroscience, which is to say that it is about much too much (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. (Ginia Bellafante) 'BE' A high-energy, low-content Israeli show that blends music, dance and sex appeal in the latest attempt to tap into the ''Stomp'' market (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100. (Jason Zinoman) 'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Honor Moore) 'BILL W. AND DR. BOB' This insightful new play about the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous subtly makes the claim that the recovery movement was born as a series of accidents. Patrick Husted is excellent as Bob Smith, Bill Wilson's partner in combating addictions (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Bellafante) 'BIOGRAPHY' A revival of S. N. Behrman's hoary 1932 comedy about a society portraitist and the men who keep trying to reign her in feels slight as a needlepoint pillow. As the play's supposedly beguiling heroine, Marion Froude, Carolyn McCormick never beguiles (2:15). The Pearl Theater, 80 St. Mark's Place, at First Avenue, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Bellafante) * 'BLACKBIRD' David Harrower's stunning new drama looks back at a sexual relationship -- between a 40-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl -- that transforms, cripples and paralyzes. Jeff Daniels and Alison Pill, both extraordinary, peel their characters down to their barest souls. Joe Mantello is the masterly director (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley) 'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) * 'IN THE HEIGHTS' Lin-Manuel Miranda's joyous songs paint a vibrant portrait of daily life in Washington Heights in this flawed but enjoyable show. Essentially a valentine to the barrio -- conflict of a violent or desperate kind is banished from the picture -- the musical contains a host of funny performances and brings the zesty sound of Latin pop to the stage. (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood) 'THE J.A.P. SHOW: JEWISH AMERICAN PRINCESSES OF COMEDY' Laughs along with longueurs (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder) 'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Anita Gates) 'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30).Westside Theater Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) * 'SPALDING GRAY: STORIES LEFT TO TELL' A disarming collage of selections from the monologues and journals of Mr. Gray, the ultimate stand-up solipsist, who died in 2004. Directed by Lucy Sexton, and read by five performers, none of whom resemble Mr. Gray, with an affection that shrewdly stops short of hero worship (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Off Off Broadway 'DENIAL' An engrossing and timely legal drama about a Holocaust denier being defended by a Jewish lawyer, this play examines the moral and ethical dilemma inherent in the First Amendment and asks how much sufferance can a free society give its crackpots and maintain its individual liberties (2:30). Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302. (Wilborn Hampton) 'REALISM' and 'JUMP!' The stately Jean Cocteau Repertory (now known as the Exchange) gets a hipster makeover with two foul-mouthed and aggressive new provocations from Britain (1:30 each). Kirk Theater, 420 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman) 'T J AND DAVE' The comics T. J. Jagodowski and Dave Pasquesi miraculously improvise a one-hour play at every performance. This is an impressive feat of mental athletics, but the results are also observant, complex and frequently enormously funny (1:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) Long-Running Shows 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' A pasteboard pastiche of 1920's musicals, as remembered by a witty show queen(1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Last Chance 'THE ACCOMPLICES' Bernard Weinraub, a former reporter for The New York Times, has chosen a worthy subject for his first play: In 1940, the young Zionist Peter Bergson was determined to persuade the United States government to open its arms to Jewish refugees fleeing the Nazis. Unfortunately, this production takes a hagiographic approach to its protagonist, emphasizing his heroism at the expense of more complex characterization. (2:00). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closes tomorrow. (David Ng) 'ANNE OF GREEN GABLES' The trick to refashioning beloved children's books for the stage is to keep both the spirit and the story largely intact. In this, Gretchen Cryer and Nancy Ford -- a musical-theater partnership of five decades' standing, who have moved from their hit ''I'm Getting My Act Together'' to the American Girl demographic -- have largely succeeded. This breezy, upbeat musical avoids slickness and gets the job done, and is nicely cast into the bargain (1:30). The Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200; closes tomorrow. (Anne Midgette) * 'APOSTASY' Gino Dilorio's fearless play about a dying white Jewish woman who falls under the spell of a black televangelist is pretty good; the acting that delivers it is terrific, especially Susan Greenhill as the woman, and Susan Louise O'Connor as her daughter (2:00). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, (212) 868-4444; closes on Sunday. (Neil Genzlinger) 'GUTENBERG! THE MUSICAL' A very funny if not terribly original satire of musical theater features what must be the worst backers' audition of all time (2:05). Actors' Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Zinoman) 'JANE EYRE' Staged as a psychological drama, this new version of an oft-adapted classic is a shadowy, fluid, engaging production (2:45). Baruch Performing Arts Center's Nagelberg Theater, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street, (212) 279-4200; closes tomorrow. (Zinoman) 'HOWARD KATZ' The subject of Patrick Marber's comedy of unhappiness about a rabid talent agent, starring a baleful Alfred Molina and directed by Doug Hughes, is nothing more nor less than your standard-issue midlife crisis. This familiar topic gets the better of all the talented people here trying to make it seem fresh (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 'THE VIEW FROM K STREET STEAK' An attempt at political satire that misses with just about every shot, this play ends up being simply confusing and boring, neither funny nor timely (1:50). Altered Stages, 212 West 29th Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-3101; closes tomorrow. (Hampton) Movies Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. 'AQUA TEEN HUNGER FORCE COLON MOVIE FILM FOR THEATERS' (R, 87 minutes) Not as funny as the title or the Cartoon Network series on which it's based. (A. O. Scott) 'BLADES OF GLORY' (PG-13, 93 minutes) In this fast, light, frequently funny comedy about a male figure-skating team, Will Ferrell and Jon Heder stake an early claim to being the comedy couple of the year. (Stephen Holden) 'THE CONDEMNED' (R, 100 minutes) This simple-minded vehicle for the wrestling star Steve Austin follows a bunch of muscle-bound lowlifes as they fight to the death for the benefit of an Internet reality show. Leaden and inept, the movie fails to deliver even the action goods, presenting every fight scene in such quaking, extreme close-up that it's difficult to tell who's pummeling whom. Fortunately, the language of pain is universal. (Jeannette Catsoulis) * 'DIGGERS' (R, 90 minutes) This minutely observed period piece, set in 1976, about clam diggers on the south shore of Long Island has the brave, mournful tone of a Springsteen song (''My Hometown,'' say) set in Billy Joel territory. (Holden) 'DISTURBIA' (PG-13, 104 minutes) A pleasant, scary, well-directed variation on the killer-next-door theme, with the engaging Shia LeBeouf as Kale, a young man who turns house arrest into an occasion for voyeurism and crime-fighting. (Scott) 'FRACTURE' (R, 111 minutes) A glib entertainment that offers up the spectacle of that crafty scene-stealer Anthony Hopkins mixing it up with that equally cunning screen-nibbler Ryan Gosling. (Manohla Dargis) 'GRINDHOUSE' (R, 180 minutes) A double feature, complete with fake previews for schlocky exploitation pictures, that pays nostalgic tribute to disreputable traditions of moviemaking and moviegoing. Robert Rodriguez contributes ''Planet Terror,'' a purposely incoherent zombie gross-out flick that flaunts is own badness the way Rose McGowan (as a go-go dancer named Cherry Darling) shows off her weaponized prosthetic leg. For his part, Quentin Tarantino, more of a connoisseur than his collaborator (and a much better filmmaker), turns out a brutal, talky and satisfying car-chase revenge movie in ''Death Proof,'' starring Kurt Russell. (Scott) * 'THE HOAX' (R, 115 minutes) A first-rate performance by Richard Gere drives this true story of Clifford Irving (Mr. Gere), who claimed to be the authorized biographer of Howard Hughes. Shadowed by the paranoia of its period (the early '70s), this movie, crisply directed by Lasse Hallstrom from an excellent script by William Weaver, is less a morality play than an entertaining portrait of a literary gambler. (Scott) * 'HOT FUZZ' (R, 121 minutes) A British parody of Hollywood-style action flicks from the wits behind ''Shaun of the Dead.'' Think of it as ''The Full Monty'' blown to smithereens. (Dargis) 'IN THE LAND OF WOMEN' (PG-13, 98 minutes) This meek, mopey comedy is the film equivalent of a sensitive emo band with one foot in alternative rock and the other in the squishy pop mainstream. The movie would like to think of itself as a softer, fuzzier ''Garden State.'' (Holden) 'THE INVISIBLE' (PG-13, 102 minutes) This supremely silly retread of the 2002 Swedish film ''Den Osynlige'' proves it's tough to be in love and in limbo at one and the same time. When a rich-yet-troubled teenager (Justin Chatwin) crosses paths with a violently disturbed classmate (Margarita Levieva), we learn there's nothing quite like a near-death experience to repair those stubborn emotional wounds. (Catsoulis) 'KICKIN' IT OLD SKOOL' (PG-13, 107 minutes) Jamie Kennedy tries to lead a break-dancing revival, playing a man who was left in a coma by a break-dancing accident in 1986 and has only just now come out of it. Funny early, but grows less so, and the dancing sequences aren't as exciting as they ought to be. (Neil Genzlinger) * 'KILLER OF SHEEP' (No rating, 83 minutes) Largely hidden from view for three decades, Charles Burnett's lyrical film about a working-class family living in a broken-down home in a bombed-out stretch of Los Angeles is an American masterpiece, independent to the bone. (Dargis) 'LONELY HEARTS' (No rating, 100 minutes) This beautifully photographed remake of Leonard Kastle's 1970 cult B movie ''The Honeymoon Killers'' succeeds better than many modern crime dramas in balancing the philosophical with the visceral, although its villains' dirty deeds still trump its deeper strain of melancholy. (Holden) 'NEXT' (PG-13, 96 minutes) Nicolas Cage plays a guy who can see into the future in this crummy adaptation of a nifty Philip K. Dick story. Too bad Mr. Cage couldn't tap into those same powers to save himself from another bad role. (Dargis) 'PERFECT STRANGER' (R, 109 minutes) There is enough of a grain of truth in this noirish, paranoid thriller set in the New York media world that even after it lurches from the farfetched into the preposterous, the movie leaves a clammy residue of unease. (Holden) * 'PRIVATE FEARS IN PUBLIC PLACES' (No rating, 120 minutes, in French) A film from the venerable French auteur Alain Resnais about love and cinematic spaces, elegant camera moves and six heavenly bodies as seen through a mighty telescope. (Dargis) * 'RED ROAD' (No rating, 113 minutes) Andrea Arnold's first feature falls into melodrama and implausibility at the end, but along the way it is a remarkably assured and complex piece of work, anchored by the director's formal control and by Jackie Dick's quietly heartbreaking performance as a Glasgow video-surveillance officer with an unhappy past. (Scott) 'SING NOW OR FOREVER HOLD YOUR PEACE' (No rating, 94 minutes) A would-be ''Big Chill'' for 30-somethings, ''Sing Now'' concerns the 15-year reunion of a college a cappella group for a classmate's wedding in the Hamptons, and its attendant midlife crises. But the ensemble cast is too unwieldy, and interesting characters are given short shrift. Only Molly Shannon, in a selfless, robust performance, registers amid the suds. (Andy Webster) 'SNOW CAKE' (No rating, 112 minutes) Sigourney Weaver peels off layers of urbane sophistication to play a high-functioning autistic woman living in a rural Ontario town who intersects with an embittered Briton (Alan Rickman). Their technically accomplished performances partly camouflage the suds. (Holden) 'SOMETHING TO CHEER ABOUT' (No rating, 64 minutes) Betsy Blankenbaker's plodding but heartfelt documentary celebrates the career of Indiana's Crispus Attucks Tigers, who, in 1955, became the first all-black high school basketball team to win a state championship. Interspersing grainy game film and interviews with original team members, like the N.B.A. legend Oscar Robertson and the former Harlem Globetrotter Hallie Bryant, the movie pays tribute to a time when basketball scholarships and N.B.A. opportunities were unknown. Back then, a player's only opportunity was to make history. (Catsoulis) * 'SYNDROMES AND A CENTURY' (No rating, 105 minutes, in Thai) Apichatpong Weerasethakul, a Thai director who has become a star of the international festival circuit, makes films that are difficult, abstract and mysterious in the best art-cinema tradition, but at the same time characterized by unusual warmth and generosity of spirit. ''Syndromes,'' suggested by the lives of the filmmaker's parents and the music of Mozart, is a two-part invention on the themes of chance and longing, shot with an intoxicating mix of suavity and sensuality. (Scott) 'TA RA RUM PUM' (No rating, 156 minutes, in English and Hindi) This Bollywood movie about a race car driver (the versatile Saif Ali Khan) takes place in New York, but that doesn't stop it from being a classic example of Bollywood family values. Here, all the city's a stage set, perfect for ''Fame'' meets ''West Side Story'' production numbers. (Rachel Saltz) * 'TRIAD ELECTION' (No rating, 93 minutes, in Cantonese) The surfaces gleam as luxuriously in Johnnie To's exemplary gangster thriller ''Triad Election'' as those in a similarly slicked-up Hollywood film, but the blood on the floor here seems stickier, more liable to stain. A brutal look at the shadows darkening the Hong Kong triads, the film picks up the narrative line first coiled and kinked in Mr. To's companion thriller, ''Election.'' (Dargis) 'VACANCY' (R, 80 minutes) This banal horror retread involves a couple of critters (Luke Wilson, Kate Beckinsale) flailing inside a sticky trap for what is, in effect, the big-screen equivalent of a roach motel. (Dargis) * 'THE VALET' (PG-13, 85 minutes, in French) If you love to hate the superrich, this delectable comedy, in which the great French actor Daniel Auteuil portrays a piggy billionaire industrialist facing his comeuppance, is a sinfully delicious bonbon, a classic French farce with modern touches. (Holden) * 'YEAR OF THE DOG' (PG-13, 97 minutes) Mike White's touching comedy about a woman who loses a dog and finds herself is funny ha-ha but firmly in touch with its downer side, which means that it's also funny in a kind of existential way. Molly Shannon stars alongside a menagerie of howling scene-stealers. (Dargis) 'ZOO' (No rating, 76 minutes) Robinson Devor's heavily reconstructed documentary is, to a large extent, about the rhetorical uses of beauty. It is, rather more coyly, also about a man who died after having sex with a stallion. (Dargis) Film Series and Revivals AN EVENING WITH ANDREAS HYKADE AND MARIUSZ WILCZYNSKI (Monday) This evening includes works by two leading contemporary animators, Andreas Hykade from Germany and Mariusz Wilczynski from Poland. ''The Runt,'' the concluding episode of Mr. Hykade's trilogy of ''country films,'' will have its United States premiere; Mr. Wilczynski's latest work, ''Kizi Mizi'' -- which the director describes as ''a tough love story between a cat and a mouse'' -- will have its world premiere. Both animators will be on hand to discuss the works. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr) RADICAL SCAVENGER: THE FILMS OF EMILE DE ANTONIO (Today through Thursday) The director Emile de Antonio reinvented the art of the collage film in the documentaries he made from 1963 to 1989, the year of his death. He raided network news footage and archival sources to select sounds and images that he would then recombine into radical political statements. This series at the Anthology Film Archives begins tonight with a new print of Mr. de Antonio's most celebrated and influential film, ''In the Year of the Pig'' (1968). A pointed assemblage of television reports about the Vietnam War, both abroad and at home, ''In the Year of the Pig'' was among the most widely seen protest films in the United States. Among the other titles: ''Rush to Judgment'' (1966), di Antonio's critical analysis of the Warren Report (made with the conspiracy theorist Mark Lane); ''America Is Hard to See'' (1970), about the presidential campaign of Eugene McCarthy; and ''Millhouse: A White Comedy'' (1971), a comic portrait of Richard M. Nixon. Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Kehr) WILD AT HEART: BARRY GIFFORD (Tuesday) The novelist and screenwriter Barry Gifford will attend a screening of ''Wild at Heart,'' David Lynch's 1990 film adapted from Mr. Gifford's novel about a pair of extremely star-crossed young lovers (Nicolas Cage and Laura Dern). This will be the rarely screened European version, which includes, if memory serves, a little extra gore than Americans were allowed to see in the R-rated film released in theaters here. BAMcinematek, BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $10. (Kehr) Pop Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music. AIR (Thursday) This French duo, whose every electronic note seems to drip with breathy, limply funky pop nostalgia, plays as part of David Bowie's High Line Festival. At 8 p.m., Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com or highlinefestival.com; $36 and $46. (Ben Sisario) * KAREN AKERS (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday) The songs in ''Simply Styne,'' Ms. Akers's beautiful tribute to the composer Jule Styne, have been arranged into a touching, tongue-in-cheek cabaret answer to ''Scenes From a Marriage.'' The pianist Don Rebic is her witty partner in deconstruction. (Through May 12.) At 9, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 11:30, Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $60 cover; $65 dinner charge at 9; $25 minimum at 11:30. (Stephen Holden) ANTIBALAS (Tomorrow) This Brooklyn collective worships the musky Afro-funk of Fela Kuti, and can produce a credible facsimile of it, thickly textured with reverb-heavy guitars and brawny horns. Its latest, ''Security'' (Anti-), also follows Fela's other big legacy: no-holds-barred denunciations of political oppression and corruption. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $20. (Sisario) * ARCADE FIRE, THE NATIONAL (Monday through Wednesday) Arcade Fire became king of the indie-rock mountain with a lovable, artsy eccentricity and a disarming emotional clarity. Its new album, ''Neon Bible'' (Merge), is dark and preoccupied but satisfyingly cathartic. The National, from Brooklyn, plays flawless, wilting ballads threaded with subtly brilliant guitar playing by Bryce Dessner and the dry, cynical baritone of Matt Berninger. Monday and Tuesday at 7 p.m., United Palace Theater, 4140 Broadway, at 175th Street, Washington Heights, (212) 307-7171, bowerypresents.com; Wednesday at 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com or highlinefestival.com; sold out. (Sisario) THE BAMBOOZLE (Tomorrow and Sunday) The Web site for this lollapalooza in the Giants Stadium parking lot has a faux radio station, complete with obnoxious promo spots crackling with pyrotechnic sound effects. It's unfortunately appropriate for the Bamboozle, a roll call of more than 100 young hard-rock bands that, once you get past the headliners, sound utterly interchangeable and predictable -- the kind that make you want to change the station. My Chemical Romance and Muse headline tomorrow, and Linkin Park on Sunday. A few highlights are Brand New, Taking Back Sunday, Killswitch Engage, Weird Al Yankovic, Captured by Robots, Lordi, Andrew W. K., and Rob Base and DJ E-Z Rock (''It Takes Two''). At noon, Meadowlands Sports Complex, Routes 3 and 120, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, thebamboozle.com; $35 each day. (Sisario) * BEIRUT, FINAL FANTASY (Sunday through Tuesday) A year ago Zach Condon, a 19-year-old from Albuquerque who records as Beirut, released ''Gulag Orkestar'' (Ba Da Bing), an album of somber, sepia-toned marches with touches of Balkan brass. He quickly became a celebrity among music bloggers, which means that by now Beirut has become a kind of blog classic rock. As Final Fantasy, Owen Pallett creates nervous universes in miniature, looping ribbons of violin around his quavering voice. At 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario) * BJORK (Tomorrow and Tuesday) It's been a long time since Bjork's combination of wailing indie-rock, eroticized electronica and use of random musical props -- Inuit choirs, beatboxers, African kora players -- has been truly avant-garde, or even surprising. But her latest album, ''Volta'' (Elektra), still sounds fresh and energized, with every sound becoming her exotic plaything. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., with Konono No. 1, a Congolese band whose polyrhythmic bubblings are made with amplified thumb pianos, at the United Palace Theater, 4140 Broadway, at 175th Street, Washington Heights, (212) 307-7171; Tuesday at 8 p.m., Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 307-7171, apollotheater.com; both sold out. Konono No. 1 also plays tomorrow night at the Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $23. The doors open at 8, and Magik Markers opens. (Sisario) * BLONDE REDHEAD (Tuesday) Its days of spindly, atonal guitar webs apparently behind it, Blonde Redhead has for the last few years been making lusher, more cottony music, as if finally realizing that its amplifiers have reverb buttons. Its latest, ''23'' (4AD), is a gorgeous trip through clouds of overdriven guitar and heavenly vocals, recalling those kings of overdriven guitar and heavenly vocals, My Bloody Valentine. With Fields. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario) BOWLING FOR SOUP (Wednesday) When the venerable British singer and guitarist Richard Thompson put together his album ''1,000 Years of Popular Music,'' his choices included ''Sumer Is Icumen In,'' Renaissance ballads and Cole Porter's ''Night and Day,'' as well as ''1985,'' a gag catalog of '80s nostalgia by this otherwise undistinguished Texas rock band. (''When did Motley Crue become classic rock?/And when did Ozzy become an actor?'') It's a fun karaoke number, though Mr. Thompson may have been making another point: if you were really going to preserve the most representative songs of our culture, you'd have to include some ''1985s,'' right? At 8 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $17.50 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sisario) BRIGHTBLACK MORNING LIGHT (Tomorrow and Sunday) Though nominally part of the current psych-folk revival, Brightblack Morning Light has a sound that is harder to place, and therefore more intriguing: an electric hum; warbling keyboards that evoke damp funk; and ecstatic, breathy chants, like the rituals of a secret forest cult. The songs on its most recent album were written, the band has said, while living in tents in Northern California. Also on the bill: Daniel A.I.U. Belteshazzar-Higgs with Chiara Giovando. Tomorrow at 10 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; Sunday at 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $13 in advance; $15 at the door. (Sisario) JIM CAMPILONGO, MIKE VIOLA (Monday) Just another night at the Living Room, a plain Lower East Side cabaret that puts on one guitar-cradling singer-songwriter after another, some of them world-class. Mr. Campilongo is a well-traveled guitar whiz who plays with Norah Jones in her country band, the Little Willies; his Electric Trio has had a Monday-night residency forever. Mr. Viola, jumping from piano to guitar, sings strident power-pop with some jagged wit. Also on the bill are Kelly Jones and Phillip La Rue. At 8 p.m., 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; no cover. (Sisario) CORNELIUS (Thursday) Keigo Oyamada, a Japanese musician who records as Cornelius (he took his name after Roddy McDowall's character in ''Planet of the Apes''), is a witty if cold conceptualist, toying with minimal electronics and off-kilter rhythms that sound like the stimuli of some psychological lab experiment. At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $25. (Sisario) BEN GIBBARD (Tuesday) The singer of Death Cab for Cutie, the indie-rock giants whose spectrum of mood runs from lovelorn and aloof to wistful and aloof, is on a rare solo tour. With David Bazan and Johnathan Rice. At 7:30 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824, the-townhall-nyc.org or bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario) KIKI AND HERB (Sunday) A few years ago this brilliantly perverse cabaret duo played their farewell show at Carnegie Hall. Then came a run on Broadway. And some late-night gigs at Joe's Pub. And the inimitable Christmas show. (Highlight: a medley of ''Smells Like Teen Spirit'' and ''Frosty the Snowman.'') Kiki and Herb can't stay away from the stage, and New York is the better for it. At 11:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Sisario) * TED LEO AND THE PHARMACISTS (Tomorrow) As stalwart as you can be in indie rock, Mr. Leo has made a long and admirable career matching the musical fury of Clash-like punk with impassioned, highly personal social commentary. His new album, ''Life Among the Living'' (Touch and Go), is a reminder that he is one of the best and most uncompromising songwriters in the game. With Love of Diagrams. At 6:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $19. (Sisario) MAGIC NUMBERS (Wednesday) Perfectly jangly bubblegum harmonies of mid-'60s vintage get a slight melancholy twist with this British foursome, made up of brother-and-sister pairs. With All Smiles. At 7 p.m., Hiro Ballroom, 371 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $25. (Sisario) * MARTIRIO (Tuesday and Wednesday) This Spanish singer, long a curious mingler of pop, jazz and flamenco, recorded her new album, ''Primavera en Nueva York'' (Calle 54), in New York with a jazz band, its boleros reinterpreted as a languorous, savory jazz suite. She makes her New York debut at Joe's Pub. At 7 and 9:30 p.m., 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $30. (Sisario) MOE (Tonight through Sunday) One chord is all Moe needs to start one of its nimble, quick-fingered jams. Its music starts with the Grateful Dead-Allman Brothers hybrids that most jam bands use, and from there it takes off toward Southern rock, spacey interludes or the borderline of funk. At 9, Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; sold out. (Jon Pareles) NEKROMANTIX (Sunday) Is it Halloween already? This Copenhagen trio follows the ''Munsters''-as-punk lead of the Misfits and the Cramps with a full sideshow of warped rockabilly, B movie titles (new album: ''Life Is a Grave & I Dig It!'') and, most important, ghoulish stacked hairdos. With Heart Attacks, Westbound Train and Orange. At 8 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171; $12.50. (Sisario) JENNIFER O'CONNOR (Wednesday) Ms. O'Connor's portraits of the lovelorn and depressed, sung over light strums of guitar and with the guileless vulnerability of a 2 a.m. phone confession, are dry but not unsympathetic: ''Maybe she's on her lunch break thinking of you.'' She has a Wednesday residency this month at the Living Room. At 11 p.m., 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; $8. (Sisario) * JOHN PIZZARELLI AND JESSICA MOLASKEY (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday) These married musicians have been called the ''Nick and Nora of cabaret,'' a sobriquet that only begins to describe their upbeat sophistication. They fuse two distantly related musical worlds into a larger whole in which Stephen Sondheim, Dave Frishberg, Paul Simon, and Lambert, Hendricks & Ross join hands. (Through May 26.) At 8:45, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 10:45, Cafe Carlyle, at the Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $75 and $125 Tuesday through Thursday; $85 tonight and tomorrow. (Holden) DULCE PONTES (Thursday) This Portuguese singer's champions (or at least her publicists) call her the successor to the fado queen Amalia Rodrigues. Not quite: Ms. Pontes's style has leaned pretty far toward the soapy and homogenized glitz you can hear every year at the Eurovision festival. (Ms. Pontes was a competitor in 1991.) But she has a strong, fleshy alto, and for this Carnegie Hall appearance will sing traditional songs from her lovely new album, ''O Coracao Tem Tres Portas,'' with a small acoustic ensemble. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $23 to $72. (Sisario) ANNIE ROSS (Tuesday) When this jazz legend barks out ''I Got Rhythm,'' she turns this great Gershwin standard into a hipster's credo. If you've got as much rhythm in your body and music in your head as Ms. Ross does at 76, who indeed could ask for anything more? At 7 p.m., Metropolitan Room, 34 West 22nd Street, Flatiron district, (212) 206-0440, metropolitanroom.com; $25 cover, two-drink minimum. (Holden) * SHIVKUMAR SHARMA AND ZAKIR HUSSAIN (Tomorrow) Shivkumar Sharma plays the santur, India's hammered dulcimer, and has transformed it from an accompanying instrument into a solo instrument that brings shimmering resonances to the classical Indian raga repertory. He will be accompanied by Zakir Hussain on tabla, who can supply subtle propulsion and percussive fireworks over the course of a raga. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 545-7536, the-townhall-nyc.org or worldmusicinstitute.org; $25 to $45; $15 for students. (Pareles) SIX PARTS SEVEN (Tonight) The Six Parts Seven, from Kent, Ohio, play instrumental rock that unfolds with deliberation and inexorable grace, working through minimalistic guitar-picking patterns and gradual buildups that quickly become mesmerizing. With Trouble Books, Ghosts of Pasha and Yellow Fever. At 8, Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; $8. (Pareles) SLOAN (Thursday) Like modern metafictions, Sloan's pop-rock songs twist inward on themselves. With their winsome tunes and neo-Beatles intricacies, Sloan's songs are not just about unrequited yearnings, but also about the process of writing pop songs about unrequited yearnings. They're rarely so clever that their heart doesn't come through. With Small Sins. At 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $20. (Pareles) SUNSET RUBDOWN (Tonight) A solo enterprise of the prolific Spencer Krug, who sings and plays keyboards in the Montreal indie-arty band Wolf Parade, Sunset Rubdown is one of those weirdly fascinating bedroom noise projects characterized by stompy lo-fi backing tracks and evocative stream-of-consciousness lyrics (''Shut up, I am dreaming of places where lovers have wings''). With Katie Eastburn and Get Him Eat Him. At 8:30, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario) * AMY WINEHOUSE (Tuesday and Wednesday) The British R&B revivalist of the moment, Ms. Winehouse growls defiant epigrams of debauchery (''They tried to make me go to rehab/I said no, no, no'') over tasty arrangements that, were it not for the whiff of hip-hop in the rhythms, could pass for lost 1960s soul tracks. With Patrick Wolf on Tuesday. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; sold out. Mr. Wolf also plays on Wednesday at 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario) Jazz Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music. KARRIN ALLYSON (Wednesday and Thursday) Ms. Allyson is an effervescent jazz singer whose recent album ''Footprints'' (Concord) convincingly delves into Jon Hendricks-style vocalese. (Through May 12.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen) SAM BARDFELD'S STUFF SMITH PROJECT (Thursday) Sam Bardfeld, a violinist with a wide-ranging resume, pays tribute to a swing-era hero of his instrument with help from the pianist Anthony Coleman, the bassist Sean Conly and the guitarist and singer Doug Wamble. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) TIM BERNE'S LITTLE SATAN (Wednesday) The alto saxophonist Tim Berne presents a coy riff on his established skronk-improv trio Big Satan: the drummer Tom Rainey remains, but Kieran Daly on electric mandolin fills in for the guitarist Marc Ducret. At 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) MICHEL CAMILO (Tuesday through Thursday) A percussive, often cathartic pianist, Mr. Camilo has a new album, ''Spirit of the Moment'' (Telarc), that captures the crisp interplay of his Latin-jazz trio with the bassist Charles Flores and the drummer Dafnis Prieto. (Through May 13.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen) * RON CARTER NONET/AARON GOLDBERG TRIO (Monday) At 70, the bassist Ron Carter has come to assume a professorial stature in addition to his celebrated virtuosity; here he leads an ensemble that includes four cellos. Also on the program is the sharp young pianist Aaron Goldberg, with a superb rhythm section: Omer Avital on bass and Ali Jackson on drums. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $40; $35 in advance. (Chinen) CREOLE JAZZ SERENADERS (Tomorrow) The New Orleans jazz banjoist Don Vappie has been leading this repertory ensemble for the past dozen years, with typically high-spirited results. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555 or (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen) DEATH AMBIENT (Tonight and tomorrow night) A descriptively titled experimental collective, consisting of Fred Frith on guitar, Ikue Mori on electronics and Kato Hideki on bass. At 8 and 10, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) ELI DEGIBRI TRIO (Tuesday) An Israeli saxophonist with a taste for burnished sonorities, Eli Degibri explores his own music with help from Gary Versace on organ and Obed Calvaire on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Louis 649, 649 East Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 673-1190, louis649.com; no cover. (Chinen) SCOTT DUBOIS QUARTET (Sunday) Scott DuBois, a guitarist equally devoted to knotty compositions and free improvisation, leads a band with the saxophonist Hakon Kornstad, the bassist Eivind Opsvik and the drummer Jeff Davis. At 9:30 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) JOHN ELLIS GROUP (Tomorrow) John Ellis is a tenor and soprano saxophonist drawn to loose-limbed funk, but he also has an interest in spacious modern jazz, as he illustrates on his most recent album, ''By a Thread'' (Hyena). He works here with similarly inclined players, like the guitarist Mike Moreno, the pianist Aaron Parks and the drummer Kendrick Scott. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen) * ESSENTIALLY ELLINGTON (Sunday) Jazz at Lincoln Center's nationwide Duke Ellington repertory competition concludes this weekend, as 15 high school jazz orchestras come out swinging. Sunday's concert and ceremony feature the finalists, alongside Wynton Marsalis and the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra. At 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5030, jalc.org; $20. (Chinen) ALAN FERBER NONET (Tonight) Here, as on his new album, ''The Compass'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the trombonist Alan Ferber features his own elastic compositions for nonet. In the second set the group will be augmented with a four-piece string section. At 9 and 10, Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; $5 donation. (Chinen) 4 GENERATIONS OF MILES (Thursday) The rapid permutation of Miles Davis's working bands makes it theoretically possible for four former sidemen to claim connection to four separate phases of his career. Here those musicians are the drummer Jimmy Cobb, the tenor saxophonist George Coleman, the bassist Buster Williams and the guitarist Mike Stern. (Through May 13.) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $32.50 to $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) JOEL FRAHM (Tuesday) Mr. Frahm's tenor saxophone playing has rarely sounded roomier or more relaxed than it does on his new album, ''We Used to Dance'' (Anzic). He holds down a regular trio engagement at the Bar Next Door. At 8 and 10 p.m., 129 MacDougal Street, West Village, (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; cover, $8, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) * KENNY GARRETT (Tonight through Sunday night) The best moments on ''Beyond the Wall,'' Mr. Garrett's most recent album, showcase his alto saxophone in dialogue with the robust tenor of Pharoah Sanders, who resurfaces as a guest at this engagement. At 8:30 and 10:30, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35 and $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) * GRAND REUNION (Tuesday through Thursday) The saxophonist Todd Williams, the pianist Marcus Roberts, the bassist Reginald Veal and the drummer Herlin Riley reconvene as a collective, each bringing a sophisticated understanding of the blues. Given that they once worked together in the employ of Wynton Marsalis, there just might be a special guest. (Through May 13.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen) TOM HARRELL QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) An introverted but assertive trumpeter, Tom Harrell leads a disciplined hard-bop band with Wayne Escoffery on tenor saxophone, Danny Grissett on piano, Ugonna Okegwo on bass and Johnathan Blake on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen) * FRED HERSCH TRIO (Tuesday through Thursday) Together with the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer Nasheet Waits, the pianist Fred Hersch applies a rigorous elasticity to originals and standards alike. The trio has a sparkling new album, ''Night and the Music'' (Palmetto), featuring a little of both. (Through May 13.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) BILL HORVITZ EXPANDED BAND (Sunday) The guitarist Bill Horvitz presents a suite of new compositions dedicated to the memory of his brother Philip, a writer and performer; some 20 musicians will be involved, including the clarinetist Marty Ehrlich, the bassist Ken Filiano and the pianist and vocalist Robin Holcomb. At 8:30 p.m., Roulette, 20 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 219-8242, roulette.org; $15, $10 for students. VIJAY IYER (Thursday) A pianist and composer given to restive energies and rhythmic conundrums, Mr. Iyer leads an exceptionally intuitive band, with the alto saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthappa, the drummer Marcus Gilmore and the bassist Matt Brewer. (Through May 12.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; $10 for members. (Chinen) OMER KLEIN TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) The pianist Omer Klein explores a melodic modernism partly informed by his Israeli roots; his trio includes Massimo Biolcati on bass and Eric McPherson on drums. At 9 and 10:30, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. (Chinen) * KATE McGARRY SEXTET (Thursday) On her fine new album, ''The Target'' (Palmetto), Ms. McGarry applies a vision of pop pluralism to the craft of jazz singing, without slighting either side of the equation. She appears with some of the same musicians here, including the guitarist Keith Ganz, the organist Gary Versace and the saxophonist Donny McCaslin. (Through May 13.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen) JOHN McNEIL/BILL McHENRY QUARTET (Sunday) Mr. McNeil, a trumpeter, and Mr. McHenry, a tenor saxophonist, mostly play obscurities from the 1950s West Coast jazz canon in this solid and often delightful quartet. At 8 and 10 p.m., Biscuit BBQ, 230 Fifth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 399-2161, biscuitbbq.com; cover, $10; $5 for musicians, students and children, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) JEREMY PELT QUARTET (Tonight through Sunday night) Jeremy Pelt, a trumpeter with a big tone and bracing technique, leads a locomotive band with Danny Grissett on piano, Derek Nievergelt on bass and Willie Jones III on drums. At 9 and 11, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) MICHELE ROSEWOMAN (Today) Ms. Rosewoman is a pianist with a sharp and searching style, as she confirms on her recent album, ''The In Side Out'' (Advance Dance). Here she leads her band Quintessence: Mark Shim and Loren Stillman on saxophones, Matt Brewer on bass and Gene Jackson on drums. At 6 and 7:30 p.m., Rose Center for Earth and Space, Central Park West at 81st Street, (212) 313-7278, amnh.org/rose/specials/jazz; suggested admission, $14. (Chinen) GRANT STEWART (Tuesday) Mr. Stewart is an uncommonly proficient tenor saxophonist, as he confirms on a bebop-steeped new album, ''In the Still of the Night'' (Sharp Nine). At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Smalls, 183 West Tenth Street, West Village, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. (Chinen) TRAVIS SULLIVAN'S CASUAL SEXTET (Thursday) The alto saxophonist Travis Sullivan, probably best known as the leader of a self-explanatory band called the Bjorkestra, leads a smaller and freer group with colleagues like the guitarist Rez Abbasi and the vocalist Jen Shyu. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $12, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen) LEW TABACKIN TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Lew Tabackin is an expansive tenor saxophonist and lyrical flutist who never sounds freer than in this setting, backed only by a bassist (Boris Kozlov) and a drummer (Mark Taylor). At 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen) OHAD TALMOR'S NEWSREEL (Sunday) The multireedist Ohad Talmor features his own music in this ensemble featuring the trumpeter Shane Endsley, the keyboardist Jacob Sacks, the bassist Matt Pavolka and the drummer Dan Weiss. (Mr. Endsley plays an early set at 7 p.m., with his own group.) At 9 p.m., Bar 4, 444 Seventh Avenue, at 15th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-9800, myspace.com/conceptionsatbar4; suggested cover for each show, $5. (Chinen) * CECIL TAYLOR: NEW AHA 3 WITH ANDY BEY (Sunday) On the surface, the fiery pianist Cecil Taylor and the mellifluous singer Andy Bey have little in common. But their interaction here is not a first, and it holds some cooperative possibilities, partly because of the audacious support of the bassist Henry Grimes and the drummer Pheeroan akLaff. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen) TURTLE ISLAND QUARTET (Tonight through Sunday night) This string ensemble, which won a 2005 Grammy for best classical crossover album, marks the release of a more recent effort, ''A Love Supreme: The Legacy of John Coltrane'' (Telarc). At 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $35; $30 on Sunday. (Chinen) * VISION TONIC (Tuesday) In response to the recent closure of Tonic, the Vision Festival absorbed a few off-season bookings, including two next Tuesday. The first, at 7:30, is a promising trio consisting of the guitarist Marc Ribot, the bassist Henry Grimes and the drummer Chad Taylor; the second, at 9:30, includes the drummer Andrew Barker and the multireedists Daniel Carter and Sabir Mateen. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Clemente Soto Velez, 107 Suffolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 696-6681, visionfestival.org; cover, $10 per set, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) JOHN ZORN'S BOOK OF ANGELS (Tonight and tomorrow night) ''The Book of Angels'' is a body of 300 works composed by John Zorn during an apparently feverish three-month span. Tonight the cellist Erik Friedlander and the keyboardist Jamie Saft, among others, perform some of those pieces; tomorrow the interpretation falls to the bassist Shanir Blumenkranz and the Masada String Trio. At 8, Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org; $20. (Chinen) Classical Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music. Opera * 'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' (Tomorrow) Bartlett Sher's breezy production of Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' which was introduced in November, conveys the comic confusions of the story through its fluid staging and a wonderfully abstract set: a matrix of movable doors, staircases and potted orange trees, behind which the characters spy on one another. The heated sexuality in this tale of romantic intrigue also comes through strongly, thanks to Mr. Sher's subtle directing of a handsome cast, notably the captivating young mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato, a vocally agile and feisty Rosina. Some major changes are coming to the cast, though, for the final performances. The accomplished American tenor Lawrence Brownlee, in his Met debut role, makes a sweet-toned, technically agile and appealing Count Almaviva. The baritone Russell Braun is a hardy and clever Figaro. Maurizio Benini conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $220 tickets available. (Anthony Tommasini) LA GRAN SCENA OPERA COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow night) In the tradition of every great diva who just can't say goodbye to the stage, Mme. Vera Galupe- Borszkh is following last year's 20th annual and absolute last farewell with a return engagement, ''Back by Personal Whim (and Popular Demand).'' Mme. Vera, for the two or three opera lovers in New York still unfamiliar with her name, is a creation of the brilliant Ira Siff, who skewers opera and its mores as only one steeped in it can. Madame's recitals are a combination of stand-up comedy and ''Vissi d'arte,'' and have been shown to be suitable even for nonopera fans -- if they can get tickets. At 8, Thalia at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, granscena.org; $33. (Anne Midgette) * 'IL TRITTICO' (Tonight, Monday and Thursday) The Met's new ''Trittico,'' Puccini's triptych of one-act operas, is now the most elaborate production in the company's repertory. The director Jack O'Brien has created grandly old-fashioned yet insightful and effective stagings of these three very different operas: ''Il Tabarro,'' a grim love triangle aboard a barge in Paris; ''Suor Angelica,'' a tender, mystical and ultimately devastating story of a young nun's yearning to be with her dead child; and ''Gianni Schicchi,'' an irreverent comedy about the avaricious relatives of a miserly old man who has just died. The earthy soprano Maria Guleghina as the beleaguered barge-owner's wife, the impassioned soprano Barbara Frittoli as Sister Angelica and the stylish baritone Alessandro Corbelli as the shrewd Schicchi are standouts, though the powerhouse mezzo-soprano Stephanie Blythe almost steals each show playing three supporting roles. James Levine conducts vibrant and beautifully refined performances. Tonight at 8, Monday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $205 tickets available tonight; $175 for Monday and Thursday. (Tommasini) 'TURANDOT' (Tuesday) Franco Zeffirelli's extravagant take on a Puccini fantasy of Far Eastern bloodthirstiness and lust helps wind down the Met's season. Erika Sunnegardh continues in the title role. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $175 tickets remaining. (Bernard Holland) Classical Music * PIERRE-LAURENT AIMARD (Thursday) During his Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall this season, this astounding French pianist has revealed himself to be a fascinating concert programmer and astute music historian. The next-to-last of his Perspectives concerts, called ''Programming Games,'' offers an eclectic evening of 20th-century works for piano and percussion by Ligeti, Peter Eotvos and Gyorgy Kurtag, culminating in Bartok's exciting Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion. You can be sure that Mr. Aimard will have an intriguing explanation for having included Steve Reich's ''Clapping Music'' in the mix. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; sold out. (Tommasini) AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA (Tuesday and Wednesday) Composers, especially young ones, have too few chances to hear their new orchestral works performed. Part concert, part service, part competition, this orchestra's annual new-music readings address the gap, selecting nine composers (from 150 submissions this year) to receive feedback from mentor composers and conductors. One of the nine will win a $15,000 prize and an official premiere at an American Composers Orchestra concert; all will hear their music performed by a professional orchestra -- a prize in itself. At 10 a.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 977-8495, americancomposers.org; free. (Midgette) AMERICAN MODERN ENSEMBLE (Tonight and tomorrow) This ensemble of experienced new-music performers, conducted by Robert Paterson, offers works by Chen Yi and Zhou Long, both from China, who draw on Chinese and Western sounds and structures in their music. (They are also married.) The first half of the program includes Ms. Chen's ''Sparkle,'' ''Chinese Ancient Dances,'' ''Near Distance'' and ''Blue Dragon Sword Dance.'' The second part is devoted to Mr. Zhou's ''Dhyana'' and ''Metal, Stone, Silk, Bamboo.'' The composers will be interviewed during the intermission. At 8 p.m., Tenri Cultural Institute, 43A West 13th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 645-2000, americanmodernensemble.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Allan Kozinn) CONCERTANTE (Sunday) This vibrant string sextet will play Mozart's String Quintet in G minor (K. 516) and Strauss's ''Metamorphosen'' (the version for string sextet). The ensemble, which champions new music, also offers a new piece by Jonathan Leshnoff. At 3 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $20. (Vivien Schweitzer) MATTHIAS GOERNE AND CHRISTOPH ESCHENBACH (Monday) Call it the Fischer-Dieskau effect: Germany has produced a whole crop of fine baritones, and one of the finest is Matthias Goerne, with a dark, full voice; a slightly distracting penchant for onstage gesticulation; and a constant search for artistic stimulation that will push him to extend his artistic horizons. Christoph Eschenbach, moving off the podium and taking his place as accompanist, joins him for a concert of Schumann (including the Op. 24 ''Liederkreis'') and Brahms (including ''Vier Ernste Gesange,'' a wrenching set to which Mr. Goerne should do full justice). At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $23 to $72. (Midgette) INTERPRETATIONS (Thursday) To celebrate the composer Chinary Ung's 65th birthday, several ensembles and soloists -- Antares, the Brentano String Quartet, the cellist Maya Beiser, the percussionist Steven Schick and the baritone Thomas Buckner -- are joining forces to play some of his music. The program also includes works by Koji Nakano, Hi Kyung Kim, Kee-Young Chong and Chou Wen-Chung. At 8 p.m., Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742 or (212) 545-7536, asiasociety.org; $20. (Kozinn) ALEXANDER LONQUICH (Thursday) This German pianist returns to the 92nd Street Y, where he made his New York debut in March 2006, with Schumann's Fantasiestucke, and selections from ''Album for the Young.'' He will be joined by Cristina Barbuti for Schumann's ''12 Pieces for Piano Four Hands for Children Small and Large,'' and Brahms's Variations on a Theme by Schumann for Piano Four Hands. At 8 p.m., 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Schweitzer) * ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA (Tomorrow) The young Dutch violinist Janine Jansen made her New York debut at an Orpheus concert at the start of this season, and gave high-energy performances of Vivaldi's ''Four Seasons,'' which was also the subject of her first recording. Now she has released a second CD with the Mendelssohn Concerto as its centerpiece, and is returning to play that work with Orpheus as well. The program also includes Poul Ruders's ''Credo'' and ''Trapeze,'' and Schumann's Symphony No. 2. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $30 to $98. (Kozinn) * JORDI SAVALL (Wednesday and Thursday) This Spanish master of the viola da gamba has become a favorite of New York early-music audiences, both as a soloist and as the leader of his three period-instrument ensembles. This time he is playing two gamba recitals, with Pierre Hantai, a harpsichordist; and Xavier Diaz, a lutenist. The first program, ''Folias and Romanescas,'' includes works by Ortiz, Murcia, Sanz and Hume. The second is devoted to music of the French court, with works by Marais, Couperin and others. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $55; $100 for both concerts. (Kozinn) Dance Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance. * ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER (Tonight through Sunday) Yes, these terrific dancers will be performing Ailey's soul-lifting ''Revelations.'' Any other questions? Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $22 to $78. (Jennifer Dunning) AMERICAN REPERTORY BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow night) This New Jersey-based classical ballet troupe will perform Twyla Tharp's ''Octet,'' and choreography by Val Caniparoli; Harrison McEldowney; Susan Shields; the company director, Graham Lustig; and the always intriguing Melissa Barak. At 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $18 to $38; $12 to $32 for students and 65+. (Dunning) BROOKLYN ARTS EXCHANGE: FIRST WEEKENDS (Tonight and tomorrow night) The choreographers participating in this installment of a series for new and lesser-known artists are KC Chun-Manning, Alethea Adsitt and Jessica Morgan. At 8, Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-0018, bax.org; $8 to $15. (Dunning) CHAMECKILERNER (Tonight and tomorrow night) Rosane Chamecki and Andrea Lerner, both originally from Brazil, are known for their dark, exaggerated and often raw depictions of human behavior. In their new multimedia ''EXIT,'' they create a funeral rite for themselves in which they watch from the afterlife while colleagues offer eulogies and flashbacks. At 8:30, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, Ext. 11, thekitchen.org; $10. (Dunning) NORA CHIPAUMIRE (Tonight) This is the second and last performance of ''push/pull theories'' by Ms. Chipaumire, a Zimbabwean dancer, and the choreographer and writer/director Linnet Taylor. Ms Chipaumire is a powerful performer whose work explores her experience as an immigrant and her relationship to her history and country. At 7:30, Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; free. (Roslyn Sulcas) DANCE CONVERSATIONS @ THE FLEA (Tuesday) This performance and discussion series ends its season with dances by Kristen Hollinsworth, Valerie Green, Julia Ritter and Pascal Rekoert, and talk moderated by Jonah Bokaer. At 7 p.m., Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-2407, theflea.org; free. (Dunning) ANDRe GINGRAS/KORZO PRODUCTIES (Tonight and tomorrow night) From the Netherlands, Mr. Gingras and his company will present ''CYP17,'' a mixed-media piece that aims to present ''the 'freak show' that is our future,'' as its publicity puts it. Rock on. At 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $15. (Dunning) 'IN THE COMPANY OF MEN' (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) Six individuals and companies will celebrate choreography by men. They are Aaron Draper's AnD Dance, nathantrice/RITUALS, Jeffrey Peterson Dance, Cosmo Scharf (in collaboration with Larry Keigwin and Young Dance Collective), Brian Brooks and dre.dance, directed by Taye Diggs (yes, the actor) and Andrew Palermo. (Through May 13.) Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200, dnadance.org; $25. (Dunning) JOYCE SOHO PRESENTS (Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night) This is the first of a three-part series offering four emerging groups each week. This weekend features Sidra Bell Dance New York, Oni Dance, Gallim Dance Group/Andrea Miller and Dorian Nuskind-Oder. Week 2 performances begin on Thursday, with fivefour/Cortney McGuire and Leah Nelson, Cherylyn Lavagnino Dance, Katie Martin and Katy Orthwein. At 8, Joyce Soho, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 352-3101, or (866) 811-4111; $15; $12 for students and 65+; $35 for a three-weekend pass. (Sulcas) ALONZO KING'S LINES BALLET (Tonight through Sunday) This San Francisco company dances ballet with an unusually streamlined and extra-active body line and attack. Mr. King's new ''Moroccan Project'' is set to African drumming and oud and violin music. His ''Migration,'' also new, will be danced to music by Pharoah Sanders, Miguel Frasconi and Leslie Stuck. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $40. (Dunning) LA MAMA MOVES! (Tonight through Sunday night) This modern-dance version of a three-ring circus spills out into three theater spaces at La MaMa, with nine programs featuring more than 50 companies and soloists. (Through May 13.) At 7:30 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org; $15. (Dunning) MONEY OF THE MONTH CLUB (Tonight and tomorrow night) We're not quite sure what this is all about, but it sounds as if it lives up to the Dixon Place standard of the cozily bizarre. At 8, Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, dixonplace.org; $12; $10 students and 65+. (Dunning) * NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The new production of ''Romeo and Juliet'' by the company director, Peter Martins, continues. The doomed young lovers will be danced by Sterling Hyltin and Robert Fairchild (tonight, tomorrow night and Tuesday); Tiler Peck and Sean Suozzi (tomorrow afternoon and Thursday); Erica Pereira and Allen Peiffer (Sunday); and Kathryn Morgan and Seth Orza (Wednesday). (Through May 13.) Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $15 to $86. (Dunning) DAVID PARKER AND THE BANG GROUP (Tuesday through Thursday) The members of Mr. Parker's troupe use their bodies as instruments -- literally -- creating a percussive score as they dance. His new ''Hour Upon the Stage'' is likely to offer the eccentric comedy that Mr. Parker specializes in, or as press materials put it, a ''ribald approach to gender and sexuality.'' On Tuesday there will be a preshow talk at 6.30 p.m. (Through May 12.) At 7.30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $25; $15 for students, 65+ and artists. (Sulcas) RAGAMALA MUSIC AND DANCE THEATER (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) From Minneapolis, the company mixes Indian Bharatanatyam dance with contemporary movement, Japanese taiko drums and a capella singing. (Through May 13.) Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at noon and 5 p.m., Thursday at 7 p.m., New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, newvictory.org; $12.50 to $35. (Dunning) SKOVE WORKS (Thursday) Lily Skove and her modern-dance company will present ''SPLIT,'' a collaboration with the lighting designer T J Hellmuth that plays with hidden and obstructed perspectives in shadowy spaces that might be rooms in a house. And this mustily idiosyncratic performing space would seem the ideal setting. (Through May 12.) At 8 p.m., the Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org; $15. (Dunning) * URBAN BUSH WOMEN (Tuesday through Thursday) Jawole Willa Jo Zollar's ''Walking With Pearl: Africa Diaries'' and ''Walking With Pearl: Southern Diaries,'' works based on the travel diaries of the modern-dance pioneer Pear Primus, are the linchpins of the two programs at the Joyce offered by this dynamic company. There are other draws, however: a new work by Camille A. Brown, one of the most promising young choreographers around, and a restaging of Blondell Cummings's ''Chicken Soup.'' (Through May 13.) Tuesday and Wednesday at 7.30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $36. (Sulcas) Art Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. Museums * AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: MARTiN RAMiREZ, through May 13. Ramirez, a Mexican peasant who immigrated to Northern California and died there at 68 in 1963, spent the last 32 years of his life in a mental hospital, making some of the greatest art of the last century. He had his own way with materials and color, and an unforgettable cast of characters. But most of all, Ramirez had his own brand of pictorial space, established by rhythmic systems of parallel lines, both curved and straight, whose mesmerizing expansions and contractions simultaneously cosset and isolate his figures. In addition to being one of the season's best exhibitions and the first of his work in a New York museum, this show should render null and void the distinction between insider and outsider art. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KINDRED SPIRITS: ASHER B. DURAND AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through July 29. This show of about 60 works by one of the greats of 19th-century American landscape painting has as its centerpiece ''Kindred Spirits'' (1849), a tribute to the landscapist Thomas Cole and his friend the poet-journalist William Cullen Bryant. A founder of the Hudson River School, Durand (1796-1886) favored the realistic approach to landscape advocated by the English critic John Ruskin. Durand explored forest interiors with close attention to the ways of trees, foliage and rocks and ground cover in smaller works, while his larger and more elaborate exhibition pictures, influenced by European masters, are Arcadian visions suffused with light, color and atmospheric perspective. The show reveals Durand's strong sense of artistic mission and his potent role in shaping the aesthetic of 19th-century America. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck) GREY ART GALLERY: 'BEYOND THE WHITE CUBE: A RETROSPECTIVE OF BRIAN O'DOHERTY/PATRICK IRELAND,' through July 14. Starting in the mid-1960s and in concert with the most influential thinkers of the period (Roland Barthes, Marcel Duchamp and Susan Sontag), Brian O'Doherty made Conceptual art in a Minimalist vein. This show displays his sculptures, drawings, performance videos, paintings and rope drawings, which could easily be called installations. It's a must-see show for anyone who wants to understand the conceptual frameworks that underpin so much of today's most significant installation and performance art. 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart/. (Bridget L. Goodbody) GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'DIVISIONISM/NEO-IMPRESSIONISM: ARCADIA AND ANARCHY,' through Aug. 6. Ultimately this rare, compressed, mercurial exhibition of work by the Italian Divisionists of the 1890s is long on history and short on truly convincing paintings. The inclusion of works by Seurat and his French, Dutch and Belgian followers clarifies how the Italians pushed Pointillism, Seurat's invention, in all directions: toward realism, academic classicism, Symbolism, class consciousness and even Impressionism. The show opens a new, albeit small, window on the genesis of Modernism beyond the French canon. If many of the works are period pieces, they are also immensely appealing, big-hearted and physically robust period pieces. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 88th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Smith) * JAPAN SOCIETY: 'AWAKENINGS: ZEN FIGURE PAINTING IN MEDIEVAL JAPAN,' through June 17. Japan Society has a history of producing exquisite shows of Buddhist art. And this one, with four dozen paintings of Buddhists gods and saints hung in shrinelike alcoves, is transporting. It covers a broad swath of geography, bringing together 13th- to 16th-century hanging scrolls, not only from Japan but also from China, where Zen Buddhism, called Chan in Chinese, originated. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Holland Cotter) THE JEWISH MUSEUM: DATELINE: ISRAEL: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO ART,' through Aug. 5. Roughly every decade, the Jewish Museum offers a survey of contemporary art from and about Israel. This year non-Israeli artists from Europe and the United States -- and a single artist from Palestine -- have been added to the mix. There's some very good work here, though, on the whole, the show grapples with crucial political issues in an indirect way. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org. (Cotter) * THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'JOURNEYS: MAPPING THE EARTH AND MIND IN CHINESE ART,' through Aug. 26. Every six months or so, the Met rotates all the work in its Chinese painting galleries to preserve the delicate silks and papers, and each time, the curator in charge, Maxwell K. Hearn, produces a new and illuminating thematic exhibition, as is the case with ''Journeys.'' Outward-bound and inward-bound are the directions taken by Chinese landscape painting, and it carries us on some fascinating voyages in a show that mixes classical and contemporary art. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter) * THE MET: 'VENICE AND THE ISLAMIC WORLD, 828-1797,' through July 8. At its peak in the Renaissance, Venice was a giant, clamorous Costco-on-the-Rialto. All the necessities, and most of the luxuries, of life flowed into and through it, with many items arriving from Islamic Africa and the Near East. With classic Met largesse, this exhibition suggests the spectacle of two different cultures meeting in one fantastic city, in which commerce and love of beauty, those great levelers, unite them in a fruitful bond. (See above.) (Cotter) MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'APOCALYPSE THEN: MEDIEVAL ILLUMINATIONS FROM THE MORGAN,' through June 17. Even in the contemporary art world the symbolism of the Book of Revelation has a subversive appeal. This new exhibition at the Morgan Library celebrates a facsimile of ''Las Huelgas Apocalypse'' (1220), the largest surviving Spanish illuminated commentary on the Apocalypse. The show, which includes 50 leaves from the original text, unbound and installed around the gallery's perimeter, offers a walking tour of the medieval imagination. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org. (Andrea K. Scott) * THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: JEFF WALL, through May 14. This majestic show makes a great case for Mr. Wall as the most complete, if traditional, of the untraditional artists who emerged from the turmoil of Conceptual Art. His often immense color transparencies mounted on light boxes are enthralling visual vehicles, intent on giving pleasure while making a point or two about society, art, history, visual perception, the human animal or all of the above. An imposing blend of painting, street photography and movies, they blur reality and artifice, narrative and form, detail and the big statement. You can't stop looking at them. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith) * NEUE GALERIE: 'VAN GOGH AND EXPRESSIONISM,' through July 2. The Neue has, as usual, gathered a stellar roundup of Expressionist art. In one of the show's most exciting rooms, a third-floor gallery devoted mostly to self-portraits, two extraordinary van Goghs hang at opposite ends: ''Self-Portrait With Straw Hat'' (1887-88), from the Metropolitan Museum's collection, filled with energetic, radiating brushstrokes, and the National Gallery's vibrant self-portrait of the artist holding a palette and brushes, painted about a year later. The most compelling pairing in this room, though, is van Gogh's ''Bedroom'' from 1889, the second of three versions he painted of his room in Arles, with Egon Schiele's obvious homage, ''The Artist's Bedroom in Neulengbach,'' painted in 1911, in a darker palette and with a perspective tipped precariously toward the viewer. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Martha Schwendener) THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'PHILOSOPHY OF TIME TRAVEL,' through July 1. This flawed show, which was created by a group of artists who studied together at the California Institute of the Arts, is nonetheless an interesting example of one of the art world's latest trends: the art collective. It takes Brancusi's ''Endless Column'' as its point of departure and reimagines this Modernist icon from the point of view of art school grads, who are versed in the language of artspeak and wed to the righteous cause of freedom of expression. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Goodbody) WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'GORDON MATTA-CLARK RETROSPECTIVE,' through June 3. I have no doubt that Matta-Clark is now being turned into a hot commercial commodity, but at least at the Whitney you can see what he aspired to be. He came up with various wonderfully harebrained ideas. Literally, in one case: after letting his hair grow for a year, he cut it off as a kind of performance and phrenological gag. The preserved hair, dutifully tagged piece by piece, opens the show like a holy relic. At the center of the exhibition is ''Splitting.'' To a plain single-family suburban frame house in Englewood, N.J., he made a cut straight down the middle, bisecting the building, then severing the four corners of the roof. The retrospective consists of films, drawings, photographs and some of the architectural pieces he cut out of buildings. The drawings are casual and not too interesting, but the luxurious black-and-white photographs from Paris speak more to Matta-Clark's formal elegance. The big message was: Life as art, and art as life, a philosophy dependent on our being properly attuned and keen to the moment. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Michael Kimmelman) WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'TARYN SIMON,' through June 24. Ms. Simon couches the show in the intellectual, power-to-the-people oratory of leftist politics, yet she clearly delights in exposing, in a quasi-tabloid fashion, America's underbelly. Though she has also worked in war-torn areas, Ms. Simon is best known for ''The Innocents,'' a series of portraits of men and women who were wrongly convicted but later cleared by DNA test results. Ms. Simon can work as long as a year to gain permission to photograph high-security zones like the government-regulated quarantine sites, nuclear waste storage facilities, prison death rows and C.I.A. offices on view in the show. There are also pictures with lighter themes: the sandpit where the Grucci family tests fireworks, ski slopes being dynamited for avalanche control and the second Death Star, from ''Return of the Jedi,'' at George Lucas's Skywalker Ranch. Ms. Simon is at her artistic best when her delight in the strangeness of American culture shines. (See above.) (Goodbody) Galleries: Uptown * RICHARD OELZE: PAINTINGS AND DRAWINGS FROM THE 1950s & 1960s Nearly two dozen paintings in the first United States show of this little-known German Surrealist introduce an introvert with a penchant for grisaille grottolike structures that seem built on air, and for soft, fleshy forms that sometimes have eyes or reveal hidden faces or figures. Max Ernst is a big influence, and Pavel Tchelitchew an obvious analogy, but the exquisite rendering and pervasive unquiet are Oelze's alone. Ubu Gallery, 416 East 59th Street, (212) 753-4444, through May 12. (Smith) Galleries: 57th Street * KATHY BUTTERLY: BETWEEN A ROCK AND A SOFT PLACE Although she is a little off her game here, this extraordinarily talented ceramic sculptor continues to impress with exquisitely detailed, radiantly colored, art historically aware, discreetly lascivious little pieces, especially if you have never seen her work before. Still, the question of whether it isn't time for a change hangs over the proceedings. Tibor deNagy Gallery, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 262-5050, through May 19. (Smith) Galleries: SoHo * 'GEGO, BETWEEN TRANSPARENCY AND THE INVISIBLE' The artist named Gego was born Gertrud Goldschmidt in Germany in 1912, but lived most of her life in Venezuela, where she produced netlike drawings in ink and watercolor and what she called ''drawings without paper'': semi-geometric, see-through, two- and three-dimensional pieces of twisted and knotted wires, suspended in space. Whether you think of them as grids gone haywire or as rational forms charged with emotion, they're out of this world, and this survey gives a sense of what is distinctive and radical about Gego's art. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, Soho, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org, through July 21. (Cotter) Galleries: Chelsea * 'PRIME TIME: MICKALENE THOMAS AND SHINIQUE SMITH' A sparkling double-header by two very different artists with much in common. In paintings encrusted with rhinestones, Ms. Thomas gives 1970s pin-up portraits of African-American women the shimmer of Byzantine mosaics. Ms. Smith turns bundles of cast-off clothes into floral bouquets of exotic patterning. Caren Golden Fine Art, 539 West 23rd Street, (212) 727-8304, carengoldenfineart.com, through May 12. (Cotter) Galleries: Other * SOL LEWITT: DRAWING SERIES If the greatness of Sol LeWitt, the Minimal-Conceptual artist who died in April at 78, has so far escaped you, this show of 14 of his mind-teasing, eye-filling wall drawings from the late 1960s and early '70s may do the trick. Selected and arranged by the artist, they proceed in carefully sequenced contrasts and echoes that are both insightful and idiosyncratic. Since their generating instructions are part of their titles, they reduce the creative process to a short, highly visible straight line. But their crisp geometries, accumulating marks and radiating patterns force us to mind the gap between artistic thought and artistic action, to experience the inability of language to account fully for visual outcome. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, through Sept. 10. (Smith) * LILY LUDLOW Best known as a designer for Imitation of Christ and Somnus, Ms. Ludlow offers a handful of draftsmanly paintings for this solo show. Done on faint dark lines on a white ground, each group picture presents nude, semi-classical figures entangled in what appear to be ethereal, sadistic ballets. Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, Chinatown, (212) 925-4631, canadanewyork. com, through May 13. (Cotter) Last Chance DELPHINE COURTILLOT From O. Winston Link to Anna Gaskell and ''The Blair Witch Project,'' there are far too many borrowed bits in these large watercolors based on staged photographs of people in dark, desolate landscapes. But the larger question is why the images wouldn't do just as well in their original photographic form. Tilton Gallery, 8 East 76th Street, (212) 731-2221, jacktiltongallery.com; closes tomorrow.(Smith) * WALTER DE MARIA Counting and space -- important to both Minimal and Conceptual Art -- come together with unusual clarity, if a bit too much in the way of gleaming metal, in two large installations by the creator of ''The Lightning Field'' earthwork. Both pieces consist of several dozen shiny, meter-long stainless-steel rods presented in spaces that couldn't be much more pristine. Experience the spatial levitation and note the number of sides on the rods; in both cases, they increase row by row. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-1717, and 555 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith) * JONATHAN LASKER One of the tortoises of '80s painting, this artist has cultivated his narrow abstract vocabulary without painting himself into a corner, and this latest show is one of his best. The usual asides to the history of abstract painting continue, as does the almost garish postmodern style, but there is more coherence in both single works and the group. Perhaps this is because Mr. Lasker's hand and brush have always stayed in the picture, subverting yet partaking of traditional touch and surface. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, (212) 242-7737; closes tomorrow. (Smith) ORLY GENGER: MASSSPEAK More than three tons of nylon climbing rope knotted into mats and arranged in mounds that sometimes touch the ceiling add to the tradition of filling gallery space with unusual quantities of just one thing for an effect that is at once dour and hilarious, like a playground designed by a Welsh miner. Larissa Goldston, 530 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-7887, larissagoldston.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith) * JONATHAN MONK: 'SOME KIND OF GAME BETWEEN THIS AND THAT' As usual, this Conceptually inclined Scottish artist concentrates on sly tributes to, or plays on, works by other artists, among them Bruce Nauman, Chris Burden, John Baldessari and Rene Magritte. The slightest pieces are best, including drawings done on old books and ''The Cheat,'' in which ''this'' and ''that'' consist of an early silent film accompanied by a boom box tuned to a classical music station. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-7335, caseykaplangallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith * MAY STEVENS: 'ASHES ROCK SNOW WATER' The outstanding piece in this beautiful show of recent work is a mural-size painting of eddying water, the surface flecked with glinting bits of mica and amber, as if spirits were moving beneath the turbulence. Mary Ryan Gallery, 527 West 56th Street, (212) 397-0669; closes tomorrow. (Cotter) * TEMPORARY SERVICES: 'GROUP WORK' Temporary Services, an inventive Chicago-based artists' collective, was given the run of Printed Matter's archives and came up with a fascinating selection of collectively published materials covering several decades. In addition, the group has installed a photographic installation that touches on the many things that ''group'' may mean, from Apostles, to Immigrants, to Upper Class. Printed Matter Inc., 195 10th Avenue, at 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 925-0325; closes tomorrow. (Cotter) * WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'LORNA SIMPSON' This tight, refined and impassioned survey covers more than 20 years of Lorna Simpson's career, from her photo-and-text meditations on race and sexism in the 1980s, to her more recent short films, which unite American history and personal history in forceful and lyrical ways. It would be easy to put some of this work on a shelf as ''identity art,'' but with an African-American woman holding one of the highest offices in the United States government, an African-American man running for president, and the nation embroiled in what some people view as an ethnic war, this art is entirely of the moment. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Winter (Inverno),'' 1898, by Vittore Grubicy de Dragon, is among the Italian Divisionist paintings on view at the Guggenheim. Page 22. (Photo by Claudio Franzini, Venezia)
The French duo Air is performing at Madison Square Garden next week as part of the High Line Festival. Page 20. (Photo by Robyn Beck/Agence France-Press -- Getty Images)
 Sterling Hyltin and Robert Fairchild are in the New York City Ballet's new production of ''Romeo and Juliet.'' Page 22. (Photo by Paul Kolnik/New York City Ballet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); BALLET (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); TENNIS (74%); SPORTS (74%); ATHLETES (72%); THEATER (58%); TRAILER PARKS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



59 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Bill Proposes Climate Study Focused on U.S. Defense

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3 

 BODY:
Given the jobs of hunting Al Qaeda, tracking nuclear programs in Iran and North Korea, and monitoring the civil strife in Iraq, American spy agencies are not lacking for work these days. Should they also take on the task of analyzing global warming?
 That question is being argued in Congress, as Democrats are fighting for a measure that would require intelligence agencies to produce a comprehensive study on the effects of global climate change on America's national defense. 
Democrats are arguing that large-scale crises caused by climate change, like drought, pandemics, famine and rising sea levels, will affect how the United States conducts foreign policy and where American military resources will be used over the next several decades.
 The proposed National Intelligence Estimate would project the effects of global warming over the next 30 years, examining political, social, economic and agricultural risks.
 But Republicans are dismissing the proposed study as an unnecessary burden on intelligence agencies already weighed down by the demands of Iraq and Afghanistan and by efforts to combat Islamic radicalism worldwide. 
 ''The Republican members believe that those resources should be directed to clear and present dangers that pose a threat to the lives of Americans and our families,'' said Jamal Ware, a spokesman for Representative Peter Hoekstra of Michigan, the ranking Republican on the House intelligence committee. 
 An intelligence bill awaiting a vote in the House includes language that would make the climate change study mandatory, but it was opposed in a party-line vote by all nine Republican members of the intelligence committee. The Republicans argued that with $6.5 billion already being spent by other government agencies on climate change research, American spies have other priorities. 
 The question of whether American intelligence agencies should devote resources to global environmental issues is not new. In the 1990s, after the cold war ended, intelligence agencies shifted more money and people into exploring the potential effects of pollution, migration and scarce natural resources, but cut back drastically on those efforts after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 A small Center for Environmental Intelligence was established in December 1996, but several years later was folded into another analysis unit in the intelligence community. 
 Intelligence analysts have already begun working on the effect of climate change on national security, officials said. They said they were using existing scientific research as the basis for their analysis.
 The Democrats said that the proposed assessment would not require a diversion of intelligence-collecting staff from high-priority missions, and that much of the work could come from existing unclassified research within the agencies. 
 ''This is the largest intelligence bill ever,'' said Representative Silvestre Reyes, Democrat of Texas and chairman of the intelligence committee. ''The notion that we are shortchanging intelligence is not accurate.'' 
 National Intelligence Estimates represent the consensus view of 16 agencies, and usually take several months to produce. The House bill, if enacted, would require delivery of the projections within nine months of passage of the legislation. 
 The Democratic proposal to require that intelligence agencies produce a comprehensive study on climate change has the backing of several retired senior military officers, who last month produced a report concluding that climate change ''poses a serious threat to America's national security'' and could be a tipping point that further destabilizes fragile regimes. 
 ''In already weakened states, extreme weather events, drought, flooding, sea level rise, retreating glaciers and the rapid spread of life-threatening diseases will themselves have likely effects: increased migrations, further weakened and failed states'' the report said.
 The report concluded that the United States would be increasingly asked to provide stability and reconstruction resources during these situations.
 That report was written by retired Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, the former head of United States Central Command; retired Gen. Charles F. Wald, former deputy commander of United States European Command; and several other retired generals and admirals. 
 The sum of money authorized in the intelligence bill is classified, but Congressional officials said the total was larger than the amount the White House requested. 
 The intelligence bill is the first to come up for a vote since the Democrats took control of Congress in January, and officials said there was a broad consensus among Democrats and Republicans that favored increasing financing for intelligence-collection staff, improving language training for Central Intelligence Agency operatives, and stationing more intelligence analysts overseas. 
 A Democratic amendment was offered during public debate on Wednesday that would require detainees in C.I.A. custody to receive regular visits from the International Red Cross. The proposal was withdrawn but might be reconsidered later, the officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); FAMINE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); POLITICS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); RELIGION (52%) Weather; Law and Legislation; Global Warming; Drought; Famine; United States Armament and Defense; Intelligence Services; Weather

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: SILVESTRE REYES (56%); PETER HOEKSTRA (56%) Mark Mazzetti

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



60 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Time's Wounds, And the Heart's

BYLINE: By A.O. SCOTT

 BODY:
In a refreshingly direct, unassuming manner, ''Away From Her'' considers two great human mysteries: the persistence of love and the workings of the brain. It takes the twilight of a long, mostly happy marriage as a vantage point from which to look back at youth and forward into the waiting darkness. The first feature written and directed by Sarah Polley, one of the most interesting actresses to come out of Canada in the past decade, the film is by turns sharp and somber, alive to the lacerations of ordinary experience and quietly attentive to grand absurdities and small instances of grace.
 ''A little bit of grace'' is what Fiona, a slender and elegant woman with Alzheimer's disease, counsels in response to its ravages. And grace is what Julie Christie, who plays Fiona, manifests in every scene, even as Fiona feels the tissue of her self begin to crumble and fade. When we first encounter Fiona and her husband, Grant (Gordon Pinsent), they are living in a roomy old house on the shore of a lake in Ontario. Soft-spoken and gray-haired, they are a picture of marital ease and contentment: sexually fulfilled, easy in each other's company, instinctively choosing kindness over recrimination. 
When Fiona's lapses of memory, initially comical -- she puts a frying pan in the freezer, and forgets the word ''wine'' -- start to become worrisome, it is she, partly out of consideration for Grant, who initiates the series of decisions that take her from the house by the lake to an assisted-living facility called Meadowlake.
 Like ''The Bear Came Over the Mountain,'' the Alice Munro story on which it is based, ''Away From Her'' uses fractured chronology to convey the splintering of experience caused by Fiona's loss of memory. The progress of Alzheimer's -- ''progress'' is one of the medical euphemisms that Grant, a retired English professor, takes bitter note of -- is cruelly and mercifully uneven. ''I seem to be disappearing bit by bit,'' says Fiona, and as she does, she begins to lose Grant as well.
 Or, perhaps, to abandon him. In conversational allusions and flickering, grainy flashbacks, we discover a long-buried crack in their seemingly perfect relationship, a period many years before when Grant, tempted by his female students and the permissive mores of the time, had been unfaithful. Is Fiona's sudden, strange attachment to a fellow Meadowlake patient named Aubrey (Michael Murphy) a manifestation of her disease, or a sly way of punishing Grant for his lapses 20 years before? When Grant comes bearing flowers, she does not really seem to know who he is. She recognizes him from one day to the next but treats him with wary civility, as if he were a dogged, pathetic suitor -- ''my, but you're persistent,'' she remarks -- rather than her husband of more than 40 years.
 Four decades ago, Julie Christie was one of the most beautiful women in movies, poised, a bit melancholy and heart-stoppingly sexy. Not much has changed. The sketches Aubrey draws of Fiona magically (or tactfully) erase the features of age -- they could have been drawn at the time of John Schlesinger's ''Darling'' (1965) -- but those features are superficial in any case. 
 Mr. Pinsent, a marvelously subtle actor with a rich voice and a shaggy charisma, looks at her with the eyes of a man who can't believe his good fortune, even as his luck takes a bad turn. And Grant, like many of the men in Ms. Munro's fiction, is a compound of attractive and appalling traits. He was clearly appealing enough for Fiona to fall in love with and decent enough not to leave her. But you can't help seeing the justice of an assessment made by Aubrey's wife, Marian (Olympia Dukakis), with whom Grant strikes up a mutually convenient friendship. ''What a jerk,'' she says, closing the door after their first meeting.
 But nobody's perfect, and Ms. Polley's triumph is to have preserved, and enriched, the individuality that Ms. Munro breathes into her characters. The economy of the original story is both an advantage and a challenge. Everything a filmmaker needs is right there on the page, but Ms. Munro's prose sets such a high standard of clarity and nuance that a filmmaker might be wiser to leave it alone. There are a few false notes in ''Away From Her,'' scenes in which the dialogue has a tinny, theme-declaring sound, a moment of facile political point-making. But over all, it is very fine, accurate in its insight and generous in its judgments.
 There is, in Ms. Munro's mature work, a flinty wisdom about heterosexual love, a skepticism about romantic ideals that does not altogether deny their power or necessity. Ms. Polley, rather remarkably for someone still in her 20s, shows an intuitive grasp of this wisdom and a welcome, unsentimental interest in the puzzles and pleasures of a long, imperfect marriage.
 Grant, at one point, muses that the passions of youth seem ''superficial'' when compared with the deeper, stranger emotions that blossom later in life, and ''Away From Her'' implicitly proves his point. I can't remember the last time the movies yielded up a love story so painful, so tender and so true. ''Away From Her'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has sexual references and complicated, adult situations. Away From Her Opens today in New York and Los Angeles. Directed by Sarah Polley; written by Ms. Polley, based on the short story ''The Bear Came Over the Mountain'' by Alice Munro; director of photography, Luc Montpellier; edited by David Wharnsby; music by Jonathan Goldsmith; production designer, Kathleen Climie; produced by Daniel Iron, Simone Urdl and Jennifer Weiss; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 110 minutes. WITH: Julie Christie (Fiona), Gordon Pinsent (Grant), Olympia Dukakis (Marian), Kristen Thompson (Kristy), Michael Murphy (Aubrey) and Wendy Crewson (Madeleine). 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Olympia Dukakis in ''Away From Her,'' directed by Sarah Polley. (Photo by Michael Gibson/Lionsgate Films)(pg. E12)
 Away From Her, with Julie Christie and Gordon Pinsent, above, opens today in New York and Los Angeles. (Photo by Michael Gibson/Lionsgate Films)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (85%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); MEMORY DISORDERS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); FILM (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (50%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

PERSON: A O Scott; Sarah Polley; Julie Christi; Gordon Pinsent

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



61 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Wolfowitz Rebuts Critics Over Tempest At World Bank

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3 

 BODY:
In a new rebuttal to charges that he violated ethics rules at the World Bank, Paul D. Wolfowitz said Thursday that he had helped arrange a generous pay and promotion package for his companion soon after he became bank president in 2005 as ''a settlement of her potential claims'' if she sued for being relocated against her will.
 Mr. Wolfowitz's new explanation of his motives came in a 10-page letter to the bank committee investigating him for ethical misconduct for awarding the salary increase and promotions to his companion, Shaha Ali Riza, when he arrived at the bank. 
The statement shows that Mr. Wolfowitz is making more of an effort to explain his motives and disprove the charge of favoritism as the pressure for him to resign grows. Mr. Wolfowitz had earlier indicated that he was concerned about her suing, but the new letter on Thursday was the most extensive and specific argument he has presented. 
 He submitted the statement as a rebuttal to public testimony earlier this week by two former bank officials who charged, contrary to Mr. Wolfowitz's recollections, that they had not approved Ms. Riza's salary arrangement. 
 One of the officials, Roberto Danino, a former general counsel, said he had heard from Mr. Wolfowitz that Ms. Riza deserved compensation for being transferred to the State Department against her will because she could have sued the bank. Though he agreed she should be compensated, he said she had no standing to sue.
 That contention was disputed by Mr. Wolfowitz in his rebuttal on Thursday. He stated: ''You have asked me whether Ms. Riza could have sued the bank. She could have.'' 
 He said she had recourse to use a bank administrative tribunal to obtain ''substantial relief, regardless of the immunity of the World Bank in U.S. courts.''
 In presenting this argument, Mr. Wolfowitz opened a window into the relationship with his companion, who had been at the bank for seven years when he arrived. When she worked at the World Bank, he was deputy defense secretary, and the two shared an interest in spreading democracy in the Middle East, especially Iraq.
 Because of their friendship, Mr. Wolfowitz testified that Ms. Riza, a British citizen of Arab descent, initially rejected the ruling of ethics officials that she had to leave the bank once he arrived. Mr. Wolfowitz at first tried to keep her and to maintain occasional professional contact, but Mr. Danino rebuffed him.
 All sides agree that he then tried to recuse himself from the arrangements for her transfer and compensation but that the top ethics official on the bank board, Ad Melkert, ruled that it was up to him to arrange her compensation package. 
 Mr. Melkert testified this week that he did not mean to give Mr. Wolfowitz permission to engineer such a large package. He said that both he and Xavier Coll, the human resources vice president, felt he had violated the rules by arranging for such a large package himself.
 Mr. Wolfowitz, who is fighting to avert a committee conclusion that he had violated a ban on conflicts of interest, suggested in his letter on Thursday that he had no choice but to make it a generous package given Ms. Riza's unhappiness and the fact that she had hired lawyers to fight the move.
 He also repeated his contention that everything he did was authorized by top bank officials and subsequently known to them when they took no action in early 2006.
 ''The terms and conditions of Ms. Riza's relocation were the only practical, achievable resolution, and I had reason to believe that they were known or available to the committee,'' Mr. Wolfowitz said, referring to the ethics officials on the bank's board.
 The worst thing he was guilty of, Mr. Wolfowitz added, was a misunderstanding. 
 The committee to which Mr. Wolfowitz addressed his letter consists of seven members, out of the 24-member bank board, headed by Herman Wijffels, a former development official. 
 The panel on Thursday was still drafting its conclusions about Mr. Wolfowitz's conduct, bank officials said.
 The committee's plan is to finish its draft by the end of Friday and to give Mr. Wolfowitz until Tuesday to submit a written response. The full 24-member bank board plans to deliberate Tuesday and make its views known Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ETHICS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); STANDING TO SUE (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (65%) Ethics; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; Shaha Ali Riza; Paul D Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



62 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: S. & P. Above 1,500, Approaching Record

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed above 1,500 yesterday for the first time since September 2000 as Wall Street extended its advance amid a burst of enthusiasm about the economy.
 The S.& P. 500, the index most closely watched by market professionals, edged past 1,500 shortly after trading began and closed at 1,502.39, up 6.47 points. It is now near its record closing high of 1,527.46, set March 24, 2000, just as the dot-com bubble began to burst and Wall Street began a three-year decline.
The Dow Jones industrial average, meanwhile, recorded its third consecutive record high close. 
 Stocks have soared in recent weeks as first-quarter earnings beat reduced expectations, and upbeat economic news has added to the gains. The Dow piled on more than 700 points in April, giving rise to concerns that investors may be getting a little too enthusiastic given the uncertainty in the housing market and other sectors of the economy.
 The good news yesterday was about inflation. The Labor Department said wages, as measured by unit labor costs, rose at a tepid 0.6 percent rate in the first quarter. 
 The Dow rose 29.50, to 13,241.38, its 22nd climb in the last 25 sessions, which is its longest advance since 1955.
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 7.62, to 2,565.46. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 0.41, to 828.87.
 ''People are watching the momentum moving the market higher and in some cases they're participating, maybe grudgingly, but they're missing out otherwise,'' said William Schultz, chief investment officer at McQueen, Ball & Associates. ''There are a lot of people that are looking for a dip to buy, and we haven't seen it. At some point you have to say, 'The dip isn't coming but I want to participate.' ''
 Although Wall Street has surged over the last month, concerns about inflation still dog the market as investors try to determine whether an inflation-wary Federal Reserve will become comfortable enough later in the year to lower short-term interest rates. 
 Other economic data helped shape investor sentiment yesterday.
 The Institute for Supply Management said its index of nonmanufacturing business rose to 56.0 in April, from 52.4 in March, and the government reported that the number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits fell by 21,000 last week, to 305,000, the lowest level since mid-January. The decline was broader than expected and was the third consecutive decrease in weekly claims.
 A parade of earnings reports continued yesterday, with General Motors turning in lower first-quarter earnings. G.M.'s profit fell 90 percent from a year earlier, which benefited from a gain. The company also suffered losses in the residential mortgage business of GMAC Financial Services. G.M., one of the 30 stocks that makes up the Dow industrials, fell $1.75, to $30.69.
 Verizon Communications led the gainers in the Dow average, rising $1.47, or 3.7 percent, to $41.07, after Merrill Lynch increased its share price estimate. Financial shares accounted for almost a third of the advance in the S.& P.
 Royal Dutch Shell, Europe's biggest oil company, said that its first-quarter earnings rose 5.7 percent despite falling oil prices and declining profit at its production and refining arms. Its American shares rose 76 cents, to $71.45.
 Light crude oil fell 49 cents, to $63.19 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 7/32, to 99 20/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.67 percent, from 4.64 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since January, 2007. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); PUBLIC DEBT (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Records and Achievements; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



63 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Strong Reports Lift Economy And Ease Inflation Concerns

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The services sector expanded at a faster pace than expected in April and productivity in the first quarter improved more than forecast, easing concerns about economic weakness and inflation.
 Economists said the data, released yesterday, would probably keep the Federal Reserve from lowering interest rates, especially if it is followed today by a strong jobs report for April. 
The Institute for Supply Management said its nonmanufacturing index, a measure of the largest sector of the economy, rose to 56.0 in April, from 52.4 in March. That beat expectations for a reading of 53.0.
 Another report, from the Labor Department, showed that business productivity rose at an unexpectedly strong annualized rate of 1.7 percent in the first three months of 2007 and that labor costs increased far less than forecast. The data eased concerns that the tight labor market would prove inflationary.
 ''The I.S.M. index was another good number for the economy,'' said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, who added: ''It means the Fed is probably going to stay on hold for a while.''
 The service sector -- everything from restaurants and hotels to banks and airlines -- represents about 80 percent of economic activity in the United States.
 A separate report showed an unexpected drop in the number of workers filing new claims for jobless benefits, by 21,000 in the latest week, to the lowest level since January.
 Initial filings for state unemployment insurance claims slid to 305,000 in the week ending April 28, from an upwardly revised 326,000 the previous week.
 Today, the government publishes its monthly labor market report, usually one of the biggest economic releases on the financial market calendar.
 In a Reuters poll conducted last week, economists predicted the figures would show that job growth slowed to 100,000 in April, from 180,000 in the previous month.
 Analysts expect the unemployment rate to rise to 4.5 percent, from 4.4 percent in March.
 Investors have worried that the unemployment rate, which is near its lowest in six years, could keep inflation above the Federal Reserve's comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent.
 Even so, yesterday's data did not suggest accelerating price pressures from the labor market.
 Unit labor costs grew by an annualized 0.6 percent in the first three months of the year, well below the 4 percent rise analysts were expecting. The rise in unit labor costs in the first quarter was much slower than the 6.2 percent increase in the fourth quarter of 2006, which was originally reported as a 6.6 percent gain. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''U.S. Productivity'' Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 1992=100, seasonally adjusted. 4th quarter revised: To +2.1% Change at annual rate: From +1.6 (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (70%); RESTAURANTS (66%) United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Productivity; United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Institute for Supply Management; Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



64 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: Norway Backs Its Ethics With Its Cash

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Walter Gibbs contributed reporting.

DATELINE: OSLO 

 BODY:
For a people whose deep national pride is in bestowing the Nobel Peace Prize, Norwegians are developing a reputation for throwing some sharp elbows.
 And they are doing so in an unexpected way: by pulling investments out of Wal-Mart and other big companies like Boeing and Lockheed Martin for what they say are ethical failings.
Norway has amassed a fortune of more than $300 billion over the last decade, thanks to its profits from oil exports. Yet few countries are more ambivalent about their vast wealth than this modest, socially conscious society of less than five million people. 
 So rather than managing their monstrous nest egg simply for the best returns, the reluctant billionaires of Norway are using the money to advance an ambitious ethical code they established in 2004 for their oil reserve, known as the Government Pension Fund. 
 Norway's investment choices have become a focus of attention in the last nine months over the exclusion of Wal-Mart, the American retailer whose big-box stores do not exist in this pristine country.
 Public pension funds on both sides of the Atlantic commonly avoid investing in certain companies on social or ethical grounds. But it is rare for a sovereign state to make such judgments, and rarer still for one to do it in the pointed, public way that Norway has.
 Among the first companies to run afoul of Norway's standards were makers of cluster bombs and nuclear weapons or related components -- a list that includes General Dynamics and Northrop Grumman, in addition to Boeing and Lockheed Martin.
 Then last June, Norway added Wal-Mart Stores to its blacklist, alleging that the retailer was guilty of tolerating child-labor violations by its suppliers in the developing world and obstructing unions at home. The fund sold off more than $400 million worth of Wal-Mart shares. 
 That drew a sharp protest from the American ambassador to Norway, Benson K. Whitney, who accused the government of a sloppy screening process that unfairly singled out American companies.
 ''An accusation of bad ethics is not an abstract thing,'' Mr. Whitney said. ''They're alleging serious misconduct. It is essentially a national judgment of the ethics of these companies.''
 Mr. Whitney, a venture capitalist from Minnesota with ties to the Bush administration, said Norway has taken aim at companies arbitrarily, based on unreliable third-party reports and, in the case of Wal-Mart, on a cottage industry of Wal-Mart bashers. 
 A spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, Beth Keck, disputed Norway's allegations, saying they were based on inaccurate and outdated information. After initially disregarding Norway's allegations, Wal-Mart late last year sent two senior executives to plead its case with Norwegian officials, and the two sides continue discussions.
 Twelve of the 21 companies on Norway's excluded list are American. But the problem is not just that the blacklist has a red, white and blue tinge, Mr. Whitney said. Norway, he said, has not created a consistent policy for separating the good from the bad.
 ''I'm not sure the Norway government understands the power of being one of the largest investors in the world,'' he said.
 Norwegian officials reject the criticism, saying they have devised a policy that compares well with major funds in Europe and the United States that practice so-called socially responsible investing. 
 ''We've managed to combine professional fund management with an ethical approach,'' said Kristin Halverson, the Norwegian finance minister. ''We see them as two sides of the same coin.''
 Socially responsible investing, she said, has not hindered the fund's performance. In 2006, it generated a return of 7.9 percent, a shade higher than the government's target. 
 Ms. Halverson is an unlikely choice to oversee one of the world's richest funds. She is the leader of the Socialist Left Party, which draws support from students, teachers and left-leaning intellectuals. 
 Since entering the government in late 2005, she has made it clear that she would like to expand Norway's social agenda. Among the next companies that could be scrutinized are those that contribute to global warming.
 ''In a global economy, ownership of companies is the most important way to have influence,'' Ms. Halverson said. 
 Norwegians have long viewed themselves more as humanitarians than oil barons. The country played a central role in pushing a United Nations treaty banning land mines, and it was host for the Oslo peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians. 
 Still, as the world's No. 3 oil exporter after Saudi Arabia and Russia, Norway's wealth has become harder to ignore.
 The government began salting away its oil proceeds in a special reserve in 1996. Known until last year as the Petroleum Fund, it was renamed the Pension Fund, which is supposed to make Norwegians aware that the fund's purpose is to provide for future generations.
 With the spike in oil prices, it has become the biggest public fund in Europe. At the rate it is growing, experts say it will be worth $800 billion to $900 billion in a decade. That translates into $180,000 for every man, woman and child in Norway.
 ''Inevitably, Norwegians feel bad about having all this money,'' said Gro Nystuen, a human rights lawyer who is chairman of an ethics council that screens investments. ''Our job is to make the Norwegian people feel less guilty.'' 
 Even before the ethics code was adopted, Norway placed restrictions on where the fund could put its money. To avoid overheating the economy, it can invest only in companies outside Norway. Half its holdings are in Europe; about 30 percent are in the United States.
 ''We basically own a slice of the world,'' said Henrik Syse, who runs the fund's corporate governance department at the Norwegian central bank. 
 A moral philosopher by training, Mr. Syse said he drew on the likes of Aristotle, Kant, and Mill in his efforts to influence the behavior of companies. While he tries to redeem companies, the ethics council decides which ones are destined to fall short.
 The grounds for exclusion fall into five categories: serious or systematic human rights violations; serious violations of individual rights in war and conflict; severe environmental damage; gross corruption; and other serious violations of fundamental ethical norms.
 The decision to ban makers of land mines and cluster bombs was widely accepted here, though when Norway added companies involved in nuclear weapons production, a few critics noted that the country had willingly taken shelter under NATO's nuclear umbrella. The fund sold off nearly $1 billion worth of stock in all these companies.
 Representatives of Boeing and Lockheed Martin declined to comment on Norway's decision.
 Among other companies on the list is the American mining company Freeport-McMoRan, which Norway accuses of severe environmental damage at its copper and gold mine in Indonesia.
 Freeport responded to the allegations with a 25-page, point-by-point rebuttal. Norway's report, it said, ''is utterly false and bears no resemblance to our company and its operations.'' 
 Branching out from companies to countries, Norway recently said that it would not invest in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, which has jailed the democracy activist Aung San Suu Kyi. 
 Critics see a slippery slope. There is already a move to add tobacco companies to the excluded list. If Myanmar is banned, than why not also shun Saudi Arabia, with its record on women's rights? Then again, Norway's state oil company, Statoil, is active in Islamic countries.
 ''There is a double standard,'' said Christian Tybring-Gjedde, a memberof the opposition Progress Party. 
 Ms. Halverson acknowledged the dilemma. Blacklisting companies that worsen climate change, she said, would put Norway in an awkward spot as its national fortune rests on fossil fuels.
 Wal-Mart was the first company singled out for human rights violations. In its report, Norway alleged evidence of child labor and dismal working conditions at factories owned by Wal-Mart suppliers in Bangladesh, China and elsewhere. 
 The report cites news articles, legal complaints and findings from labor organizations, much of which Wal-Mart says are inaccurate or outdated. Yet when Norway submitted its report to Wal-Mart last March, the company ignored it.
 That was a mistake, Ambassador Whitney said, and Wal-Mart is not disputing him. ''It has been a learning experience for us,'' Ms. Keck said.
 Now that Wal-Mart is in touch with the government, Norway said it would be open to reviewing its status. Ms. Keck declined to say whether Wal-Mart was seeking to be reinstated. 
 For Mr. Whitney, Wal-Mart illustrates a weakness in Norway's screening process: with few resources and thousands of companies to cover, it will choose to screen those from countries with freer flows of information. Many of these happen to be American, he said.
 While Mr. Whitney stopped short of saying there was a political motive behind the selection, he said, ''the process invites the accusation because of its lack of rigor.''
 While Norway and the United States have had warm relations, Americans here point out that in its manifesto, the Socialist Left Party describes the United States as ''the greatest threat to world peace.''
 Ms. Halverson waves away suggestions of anti-Americanism. ''Of course it is easier to investigate American companies,'' she said. ''But Wal-Mart had the chance to answer.'' 
 Why are so many of the companies American? ''It is your dominance of the world economy,'' Ms. Halverson said, smiling and shrugging her shoulders. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about Norway's use of investment funds to advance an ambitious ethical code misspelled the surname of the country's finance minister, who discussed the investment approach. It is Kristin Halvorsen, not Halverson.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kristin Halverson, the finance minister, said the Pension Fund ''managed to combine professional fund management with an ethical approach.''
The American ambassador to Norway, Benson K. Whitney, said a sloppy screening process unfairly excluded United States companies. (Photographs by Cornelius Poppe/Scanpix)(pg. C4)
 (pg. C1) Chart: ''Norway's Government Pension Fund cites the following ethical concerns for not investing in these companies:'' CLUSTER WEAPONS OR RELATED PRODUCTION Alliant Techsystems U.S. General Dynamics U.S. L-3 Communications Holdings U.S. Lockheed Martin U.S. Poongsan Corp. South Korea Raytheon U.S. Thales France ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE Freeport McMoRan Copper and Gold U.S. DRD Gold South Africa HUMAN RIGHTS Wal-Mart Stores, Wal-Mart de Mexico U.S. LAND MINES Singapore Technologies Engineering Singapore NUCLEAR WEAPONS OR RELATED PRODUCTION BAE Systems Britain Boeing U.S. EADS, EADS Finance European consortium Finmeccanica Italy Honeywell International U.S. Northrop Grumman U.S. Safran France United Technologies U.S. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (93%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); BUSINESS ETHICS (77%); MISCONDUCT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (68%); CHILD LABOR (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%) Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; Environment; Freedom and Human Rights; Atomic Weapons; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); BOEING CO (58%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (54%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Government Pension Fund (Norway)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (75%); LMT (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); GD (NYSE) (54%); NOC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%)

PERSON: Mark Landler; Kristin (Min) Halverson; Benson K (Amb) Whitney; Walter Gibbs

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORWAY (97%); FRANCE (90%); MEXICO (79%) Norway; Norway

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



65 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: N.B.A.'s Denials Overlook A Larger Point

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
Email: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
So much for the racial dialogue the Imus-Rutgers imbroglio was supposed to provoke.
 Though I guess words like idiotic and ridiculous and, in effect, shut up, qualify as honest discourse, albeit of the shock-jock variety.
 Let me say right from the start that I am not here to champion a 13-year study by a University of Pennsylvania professor and a Cornell University graduate student that found that white referees in the N.B.A. had called fouls at a greater rate against black players than against white players, and a corresponding but lesser bias by black refs against whites.
 Not as a basketball issue, anyway. 
 Regarding the impact on the outcome of N.B.A. games and the integrity of the sport, my many years of being inside the arena tell me there are way too many variables beyond mere data solely extracted from box scores to draw meaningful conclusions from this. But as a study of the human condition, it is fascinating, and who among its critics qualifies as the authority on how the brain stores information and makes that split-second call? 
 The main findings of the as-yet-unpublished paper -- by Justin Wolfers, an assistant professor of business and public policy at the Wharton School, and Joseph Price, a Cornell graduate student in economics -- were reported Wednesday in The New York Times, setting off a fusillade of denunciation by the N.B.A., its coaches, players and some members of the news media. 
 The league countered with a study of its own, no doubt prepared in haste to counter Wolfers and Price, and one that concluded, in the words of Commissioner David Stern, ''No demonstration of any bias here.''
 None? Whatsoever? Not possible? N.B.A. referees are not subject to the same betrayals of the subconscious as the rest of the human race? Must be a mighty rigorous psychological testing regimen these guys undergo before they are handed a whistle.
 Countering the predictable backlash in the wake of the exhausting Imus episode, Mark Cuban, the maverick who owns the Mavericks, told The Times: ''We're all human. We all have our own prejudice. That's the point of doing the statistical analyses. It bears it out in this application, as in a thousand others.''
 No wonder Cuban has made a gazillion dollars in business, while Charles Barkley, foremost among the smirking naysayers, specializes in gambling in Las Vegas and in making politically incorrect wisecracks on television, many of them advancing the very biases and stereotypes he can't believe some referees might have stored deep in their craniums.
 It is understandable why the N.B.A. is sensitive to the study and to the inevitability of incendiary overstatement, like the one by Wolfers, who said, ''Basically, it suggests that if you spray-painted one of your starters white, you'd win a few more games.'' But making the N.B.A. the guinea pig for such a study can also be perceived -- or spun -- as complimentary. 
 By Stern's own admission, his league is always held to a higher standard on racial and social issues, and has historically bent over backward to meet them. So if I were him and were presented a statistical anomaly no graver than a foul differential of up to 4.5 percent (in favor of whites), I'd say, Is that all? 
 I'd say: If the officials in our league -- which has been outrageously ahead of the racial curve in all personnel aspects, ownership included -- produced that number irregularity in a country as politically and socially polarized as this one, imagine what our competitors would score. Imagine some of the numbers the authors of the study would find in corporate workplaces far less enlightened than ours. 
 The N.B.A. has long been a sports industry leader, but let's not get carried away here, it is no racial utopia. It is the same league that several years ago was guilty of air-brushing Allen Iverson's tattoos from the cover of an in-house magazine, that has alternately embraced and beat down on the hip-hop culture, and that over the years has had to recalibrate marketing strategies, like Dr. J. and Jordan creating in midair, as a predominantly black league catering to a largely white audience. 
 Black players have long been sensitive to public perceptions and news media coverage of them. In recent years, after failure in the international arena, there is an entirely new front in the never-ending battle against preconceived notions and outright bias.
 Remember Jeff Van Gundy's accusations two years ago -- for which Stern fined him $100,000 -- that officials were targeting the Chinese center Yao Ming? How many critics do you think were waiting for Dirk Nowitzki to come up short last night with Dallas facing elimination at Golden State to recycle the ''soft European'' chant? 
 N.B.A. officials may be stalwart professionals, but they miss calls all the time because, first and foremost, they are imperfect people, which should also tell us they are vulnerable to the same hidden prejudices most of us would be embarrassed by if we were put to the Implicit Association Test.
 But in the final analysis, my guess is that N.B.A. refs are far more likely to make their most critical judgments -- correctly or not -- based on what they've been conditioned to believe about the player more than the color of his skin. And don't expect the box score to tell you how they overlooked that push-off on the dribble and that extra last step to the rim.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%) Basketball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Officiating (Sports); Blacks

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%) University of Pennsylvania; Cornell University

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (54%) Harvey Araton

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



66 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Loan Inquiry Turns to Deals With Alumni Associations

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Even as universities are agreeing not to accept cash incentives from student lenders, dozens of college alumni associations are taking payments from loan companies and providing names and addresses of graduates that the companies can use for marketing purposes.
 Such arrangements between the associations and lenders have become the latest focus of an investigation by the office of the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, into ties between lenders and universities.
 Mr. Cuomo's office announced yesterday that it had begun sending 90 subpoenas and document requests to alumni associations at colleges and universities across the country, asking for information about the relationships between associations and lenders. 
 One large student loan company, Nelnet, of Lincoln, Neb., has also been sent a subpoena. In a statement, Nelnet said it would cooperate with the attorney general's office. ''We believe our agreements are appropriate and completely in accordance with the law,'' the company said.
 The companies are trying to sell consolidation loans, by which graduates combine multiple student loans, ideally lowering their overall interest rate, so that they make a single monthly payment. Last year, $72 billion in federally guaranteed loans were consolidated, said Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of FinAid.org, a Web site devoted to financial aid.
 In a typical arrangement between a loan company and an alumni association, the lender promises a payment for access to the names of graduates. The lender may pay the association more if more graduates use its consolidation loans. Lenders send marketing materials, typically with the logo of the university or the alumni association, to alumni.
 Mr. Cuomo said the arrangements could be ''kickback schemes and payoffs that benefit lenders and their partners -- be they schools or alumni associations -- at the expense of students.'' 
 Some alumni associations have recently begun to back away from the practice. 
 The alumni association of Ohio State University this year renewed a contract with Student Trust, a loan company, for at least $35,000 a year. But it has asked the company to suspend marketing efforts. 
 ''We contacted them last week and asked them to halt any future mailings, to put those on hold and give us an opportunity to review the situation,'' said Jay Hansen, director of communications for the association. 
 Marketing materials sent to graduates did include the association's logo and did not disclose that Student Trust had paid the association a fee, Mr. Hansen said. ''A partnership implies that,'' he said.
 In the four years that the association had an arrangement with Student Trust, Mr. Hansen said, 910 alumni bought consolidation loans out of about 40,000 who were sent marketing materials. ''Of that 910 people, we've not had any complaints from anyone,'' he said.
 A call to Student Trust, based in Rockville, Md., was not returned. 
 Last week, the alumni association at the University of Michigan decided to terminate its contract with JPMorgan Chase & Company, said Jerry Sigler, vice president and chief financial officer of the association. Under that agreement Chase had agreed to pay at least $25,000 annually to market loans to the university's graduates. The amount to be paid would have been affected by the number of students consolidating, Mr. Sigler said.
 Tom Kelly, a spokesman for Chase, said the bank would be winding down similar relationships with other universities ''by Aug. 15, if not sooner.'' He declined to identify the other colleges. Chase has signed a code of conduct governing relations between universities and lenders developed by Mr. Cuomo's office. Mr. Kelly said the bank believed the code prohibited the arrangements with alumni associations.
 Nelnet has said it has marketing arrangements with alumni associations at more than 100 alumni associations. Mr. Cuomo's office said Nelnet's partners in New York include the Juilliard School, Niagara University, Manhattan College, City College and four campuses of the State University of New York. Nelnet signed a different code with the office of the attorney general in Nebraska. The company appears to view its marketing relationships as permissible in Nebraska. 
 ''We are comfortable with the code of conduct that Nelnet has agreed to follow,'' said Jon Bruning, Nebraska's attorney general, in a statement. 
 Separately, Mr. Cuomo's office announced yesterday that its code of conduct had been adopted by Dowling College, which has three campuses in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (93%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ALUMNI (92%); STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BRIBERY (74%); ETHICS (73%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Finances; Ethics; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: NELNET INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: NNI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%) Andrew M (Atty Gen) Cuomo; Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



67 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Senators Seek To Provide Aid On Mortgages

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Three Democratic senators yesterday proposed using $300 million in federal funds to help refinance troubled subprime mortgages and introduced a bill that would require brokers and lenders to act in the interest of borrowers. 
 The proposal, which includes policies that the mortgage industry has opposed in the past, is the first major legislative push to deal with problems in home loans made to people with weak, or subprime, credit. Since the start of the year, the issue has been the subject of many hearings in Congress but few bills.
It is unclear whether the legislation proposed by the senators, Charles E. Schumer of New York, Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, will become the legislative vehicle to address the issue. Some, though not all, of their prescriptions dovetail closely with ideas that have been discussed by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, who is expected to file a bill this summer to deal with predatory lending practices.
 The $300 million will be given to nonprofit housing groups to refinance the debts of borrowers who are in danger of losing their homes to foreclosure. The senators said that as many as 900,000 homeowners could be helped if the industry matched the funds at a 2-to-1 ratio.
 But it was unclear what standards would be used to make the loans and how the nonprofit groups would deal with loans where appraisals, borrowers' incomes and other important characteristics had been overstated.
 The senators' effort to require mortgage brokers and lenders to act in the best financial interest, or as a fiduciary for, borrowers is likely to face significant opposition from lenders and brokers. The Mortgage Bankers Association said yesterday that the requirement would make mortgages more expensive and limit borrowers' choices.
 Mr. Schumer said that the requirement would impose the same standard on brokers and mortgage companies, which make a majority of subprime loans, that applies to traditional banks. ''The subprime market is the wild west of mortgages,'' he said, ''and what we are trying to do is bring the sheriff to town.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LOAN BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); MATCHING GIFTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Foreclosures; Law and Legislation ; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Housing

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); BOB CASEY (78%); SHERROD BROWN (73%); BARNEY FRANK (57%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Sherrod (Sen) .rown; Bob (Sen) Casey; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



68 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Reading Russia Right

BYLINE: By Rose Gottemoeller. 
Rose Gottemoeller is the director of the Carnegie Moscow Center.

DATELINE: Moscow 

 BODY:
THE criticism by Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, of the United States and NATO put one in mind of an alpha dog at the junkyard gate -- tough, unrelenting, pugnacious. The trend started with his Feb. 10 speech in Munich, and in Moscow on April 26 his annual address to Parliament carried it forward. He railed against foreigners trying to change the economic and political system, even the culture, of the Russian Federation and called for a new law to prevent such imprecations. He also suspended Russian participation in a key arms control agreement, the Conventional Forces in Europe treaty.
 Russians are clearly frustrated with what they perceive to be a lack of respect for their concerns, especially regarding the proposed deployment of American missile defenses in Poland and the Czech Republic. But to insist that the United States and NATO are the enemy? The argument contradicts Russia's own interests, never mind that it has little link to reality. The cold war is, in fact, over. 
But Mr. Putin's omissions are important clues to Russian tactics. He had little to say, for example, about the defense budget and procurement of high-technology weapon systems. Instead, he focused on providing apartments for the troops -- a powerful issue during this election year. 
 What is interesting is how much this approach differs from the past. In the 2004 election year, Mr. Putin flew in fighter planes and went to sea on nuclear submarines, promising the armed forces a range of new weapons. It was his way of cementing his authority within the Ministry of Defense. Nowadays, with his authority well in place, he can afford to promise housing for the troops and say no more.
 Another issue he left unaddressed was the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. Russian military spokesmen have been threatening to withdraw from this treaty, often as a response to United States missile defenses but sometimes to bring Russian missile deployments in line with those of neighboring countries. 
 Mr. Putin might have launched another attack on the missile treaty; he might even have announced Russia's full withdrawal. Instead, he took a swipe at the Conventional Forces in Europe treaty but left the door open for talks to solve a long standoff with NATO, which wants Russia to withdraw its troops from Georgia and Moldova. This can be resolved without dealing a major blow to security in Europe. Not so withdrawal from the missile treaty: here Russia would begin a slide toward ruining the nuclear arms control system put in place in the closing decade of the cold war. This outcome would encourage countries eager to break out of the nuclear nonproliferation regime. It would also ensure that Russia could post no claim to leadership in the world of international law and diplomacy. 
 Mr. Putin had good reason to stay silent on the matter, and the backing to do so. The Russian debate on the treaty is subtly shifting, with new attention to the missiles Russia will really need. Some Russians are arguing that the newest Russian intercontinental ballistic missile, the Topol, is already in production and could easily handle intermediate-range missile tasks as a kind of ''universal missile,'' while retooling defense plants to produce intermediate-range missiles would be expensive and the missiles could do only limited tasks. Other experts are arguing in favor of modern supersonic cruise missiles, claiming they are cheaper to produce and perfectly capable of responding to intermediate-range threats.
 Mr. Putin thus has found a way to work the issue within his system, without sacrificing Russia's option to lead on nonproliferation policy. The Kremlin has done so to good effect in recent months, working with its negotiating partners -- even that ''enemy'' the United States -- to advance issues with Iran and North Korea. Mr. Putin has left himself room to maneuver. 
 Washington and Moscow should be looking for new openings -- difficult with both sides trading barbs. Defense Secretary Robert Gates had the right idea when he responded to Mr. Putin's Munich diatribe with a light touch. A dose of that is needed now, along with a pact to re-engage quietly and stop publicly swatting at each other.
 Topic No. 1 should be Russia's concern about missile defenses in Europe. Washington has worked this issue well in recent weeks, offering Moscow a chance to participate in technical and operational aspects of the system. The fact that Russia is not ready to say yes should be no deterrent. Reversing a Russian policy so loudly declared will take time.
 Washington can speed up the process by offering up some confidence-building measures that the Russian side would understand. One option would be to look again at measures the two countries have already negotiated, since the Russian system responds well to legal agreements. For example, in 1997 the United States and Russia negotiated the New York Protocols to improve Russia's confidence in the nature of the United States national missile defense system. These measures should be re-examined to see whether they can be modified to assuage Russia's concerns about defenses in Europe.
 Relations between the United States and Russia are in a bad way, but we should not forget our long history of working through even the most sensitive problems. If we can get out of this junkyard, we should really be able to make progress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); COLD WAR (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); BUDGETS (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%) Treaties; United States International Relations; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%) Rose Gottemoeller; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); POLAND (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) Russia; Europe; Russia

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



69 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: The Other Boot

 BODY:
As Democrats in Congress and the Bush administration look for common ground on a workable trade policy, it is worth taking a harder look at the capricious system of tariffs that raise the price of goods and are all too often based on outdated political considerations that defy logic and good sense. 
 Take the article in The Times by Michael Barbaro that detailed the disparities in the fees levied on imported apparel. There is an 8.5 percent duty on an imported wool suit for a woman, but none for a man's, a 10 percent duty on women's hiking boots and an 8.5 percent levy on men's. A vast majority of these tariffs go back to 1930, preserved in round after round of trade-liberalization talks by politicians who won exemptions for their most favored constituents. The reasons for many of them are as forgotten as the factories they were meant to protect.
Unfortunately, the costs today are real, and it is often the poorest consumers who are hit the hardest. Some of the highest tariffs are on necessities like clothes, shoes, food and household goods -- simple but labor-intensive industries where the United States is less competitive -- and they act as a regressive tax system, disproportionately affecting those who spend most of their incomes on the basics.
 There's a similar effect abroad. The Progressive Policy Institute, a Democratic research group, found that the American tariff system is ''uniquely tough'' on poor countries in Asia and the Muslim world that produce labor-intensive goods. It said the United States imported $2.2 billion worth of goods from Cambodia last year and goods totaling $36.8 billion from France. Both paid $367 million in duties.
 The current series of global trade talks, begun just months after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, was supposed to address the gross inequities in the international trade system in hopes of heading off the hopelessness that helps add to terrorists' ranks. Shamefully, the talks have stalled as the interests of a small number of heavily subsidized and protected farmers in rich countries have again taken precedence.
 President Bush needs to make a concerted push to revive this crucial economic front, making sure that it lives up to the ideal of economic development for the most disadvantaged. Mr. Bush and Congress must also look at ways to fix the outdated system of tariffs that punish American interests at home and overseas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); TERRORISM (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (50%) International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Customs (Tariff); Editorials

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (52%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



70 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Outlines Plan to Rewrite City's Construction Codes

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed yesterday overhauling the city's aged and notoriously byzantine building code by greatly expanding fire safety requirements, encouraging environmentally sound construction and simplifying operations at the Department of Buildings.
 The changes, which require City Council approval, are intended to incorporate lessons from the World Trade Center collapse in revising a code whose origins date to the city's early days and bringing it closer to national standards.
The mayor's proposal, which would apply almost entirely to new construction, would require automatic sprinkler systems, wider stairs and glow-in-the-dark exit markings for a broader range of buildings. In addition, the proposal calls for strengthening walls around stairways and elevator shafts in residential high-rises, giving rebates to encourage water and energy conservation and allowing permit applications to be filed electronically. 
 Nearly four years and 20 committees in the making, the changes are part of the most comprehensive overhaul in the history of the code, which shapes the city's interior workings in areas dire and mundane, controlling everything from stairway reinforcement to rooftop color to the alignment of toilet paper dispensers in private bathrooms. The code's last major revision was in 1968.
 ''Nobody ever wants to deal with the details, but these are the things that make this city affordable and livable and safe,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in making the announcement at City Hall. He added, ''The trouble with codes is that we constantly add, and you never take anything away, and invariably you start to have so many levels that you don't accomplish what you're trying to do.''
 In rewriting the tome of regulations, the administration is trying to move away from many of the complex requirements that have made New York one of the most difficult and expensive cities in which to build. The changes would also bring the city closer to a uniform national code that is seen as less cluttered and costly.
 But the push to revise all of the city's construction codes, which include the building code as well as the new plumbing and electrical codes adopted in 2005 and 2006, began after the collapse of the twin towers created pressure to make skyscraper regulations more stringent.
 As a result, many of the proposed rules focus on high-rises, with the requirements varying depending on the type of building, its height and the number of occupants. For example, buildings of any type taller than 55 feet and with at least 30 occupants would have to have an automatic sprinkler system, a provision not in the current code. Buildings over 300 feet would need to have a secondary water supply . There are also expanded smoke detector requirements and proposals for smokeproof stairwells and wider stairs in nonresidential buildings.
 In a show of support for the changes, representatives of the Fire Department and the real estate and building industries flanked Mr. Bloomberg as he made his announcement. And indeed there is broad agreement that the codes needed updating.
 The Real Estate Board of New York, an industry group, released a statement saying it supports the concept of updating the building code and following the format of the International Building Code, which many cities and states have adopted.
 ''Many sections of our current Building Code do not reflect modern design practice or current construction materials and technology and need to be modernized,'' the statement read, while avoiding comment on specific provisions, ''because the final version of the code was not made available to us until today.''
 City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn said the Council also supported updating the code, though she was noncommittal about Mr. Bloomberg's plan. ''We will review the document presented by the administration today, and will work toward a new set of codes that strikes the right balance between spurring economic growth and creating safer and greener buildings citywide,'' Ms. Quinn said in a statement.
 Still, changes to the building code have historically stirred up fierce debate over their potential cost and impact. And it was clear yesterday that there is little unanimity on several important issues, especially those involving high-rise fire safety.
 ''This is a really good day for New York because we've really needed this code for quite a long time, and this brings us up to par with the rest of the country,'' said Glenn P. Corbett, an associate professor of fire science at John Jay College of Criminal Justice who served on one of the code revision committees. 
 ''The problem is, unfortunately the real estate people have left some footprints in the code here by exempting apartment buildings from what would have been national standards,'' he said.
 For instance, he said, residential buildings 12 stories and below are exempt from some of the safety provisions required of office buildings, like having an emergency power source. In addition, he said, residential buildings would still be allowed to use the same kind of lightweight steel joists that analysts say contributed to the World Trade Center collapse, while office buildings have been prohibited from using them until their safety can be determined.
 But the proposal also concerns shorter structures, mandating automatic sprinklers in some one- and two-family homes, large gathering places, factories and fuel-storage areas. The rules would mandate that in all new residential buildings smoke detectors be connected both to the wiring of the building and to one another, so that alarms within a home would sound everywhere when smoke was present.
 Reflecting the administration's environmental goals, the proposed regulations would require more efficient heating and cooling systems and that all roofs be painted white or an approved reflective color. There are also provisions intended to spur growth in the city's biotechnology industry by easing rules on construction of research buildings at hospitals, laboratories and pharmaceutical research centers.
 At the same time, the changes call for more efficient operations at the Building Department, whose governing code is so frequently impenetrable that even Commissioner Patricia J. Lancaster described it as ''somewhat Talmudic.'' Under the suggested rules, the department would accept online applications and allow for less frequent license renewal.
 Mr. Bloomberg and others involved in rewriting the codes emphasized how enormous the undertaking had been, saying that no one expected the administration to be able to guide so many competing interests to an agreement. 
 ''There are a lot of issues where conventional wisdom is that they are third rail politically, and you'll never get people together and you can't do anything about these problems, you just have to live with them,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. But, he added, ''people of good faith can get things done, and I think that's exactly what you're seeing with this massive task.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (92%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); HOME SECURITY (78%); SMOKE DETECTORS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (75%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TERRORISM (59%) Building (Construction); Terrorism; Accidents and Safety; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

ORGANIZATION: Buildings Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



71 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Family Values, Betrayed

 BODY:
When George W. Bush was running for president in 2000 as a new kind of Republican -- the caring kind -- he had a ready answer for those skeptical of his moderate views on immigration. ''Family values do not stop at the Rio Grande,'' he said, again and again. He was standing up for immigrants who come here seeking better lives for their children, and he repeated the message so often that it stuck. 
 Now, like so much else in Mr. Bush's tattered slogan file, it's in danger of coming unstuck. Negotiators struggling to draft an immigration bill in Washington are being pressured by the White House and Republican leaders to gut the provisions of the law that promote the unity of immigrant families in favor of strictly employment-based programs.
Details are still being sweated out in private, but a draft proposal circulated by the White House and the G.O.P. would eliminate or severely restrict whole categories of family-based immigration in favor of a system that would assign potential immigrants points based on age, skills, education, income and other factors. Citizens would no longer be able to sponsor siblings and children over 21, and their ability to bring in parents would be severely limited. 
 Unattached workers with advanced degrees and corporate sponsors could do all right, but not families, not the moms, pops, sons and daughters who open groceries and restaurants, who rebuild desolate neighborhoods and inspire America with their work ethic and commitment to one another. The plan would also shut out hundreds of thousands of people who have applied for family visas under current rules and are patiently waiting because of long backlogs. 
 The goal seems to be to end what immigration restrictionists call ''chain migration,'' a tendentious term that recasts in a sinister light one of the fundamental ways America was built, and a decades-old cornerstone of our immigration policy. It's a cruel distortion that feeds fears of outsiders and fails to acknowledge that healthy immigration levels keep the economy running, particularly in a country with low unemployment and birth rates and workers who shun backbreaking, entry-level jobs.
 America needs immigrants. Last year's bipartisan Senate bill recognized this, and raised quotas for both family and employment-based immigration. Congress should do so again. Closing the door to families would be unjust and unworkable, and a mockery of the values that conservatives profess. It would only encourage illegality by forcing people to choose between their loved ones and the law.
 Compromise is necessary with any bill, particularly on an issue as complex as immigration. But if a deal hews so closely to the new harsh line of the White House and G.O.P that it fundamentally distorts America's pro-immigrant tradition, it would be better to ditch the whole thing and start over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); FAMILY (93%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ETHICS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); SPONSORSHIP (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%) Immigration and Refugees; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Illegal Immigrants

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



72 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 931 words

PERSON: Judith Enck 

HEADLINE: From Voice of the Bottle Bill to Keeper of the Green

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
ODD, but the color green is nowhere present in the Capitol office occupied by a mountain range of paperwork and the tart-tongued Judith Enck, Gov. Eliot Spitzer's deputy secretary for the environment, who began her career as a bottle-bill lobbyist and Naderesque nag about government eco-insensitivity. Reprising the role she played during Mr. Spitzer's eight years as attorney general (it was her idea for him to hire her away from the New York Public Interest Research Group and bring his nascent environmental agenda up to snuff), Ms Enck is his adviser on all things green.
 Or all things potentially green, which is why she was gratified last month when New York State's first lady, Silda Wall Spitzer, embraced her whimsical but doable suggestion for a greening of the energy-guzzling governor's mansion. 
Or all things that should stay green, which is why she advised Mr. Spitzer to dig in and fight a 190-mile high-voltage transmission line through central New York that, as originally planned, would snake across seven counties, 154 streams or rivers and 155 mapped wetlands. 
 ''It would have an enormous aesthetic impact, while the economic benefits are not that clear,'' Ms. Enck says. Relocating the line alongside the New York State Thruway might be a viable compromise. As for her own personal environmental footprint, she shrugs: ''I'm sure it's huge. I'm a typical American.'' 
 Not exactly. Her transportation of choice is a Toyota Prius. Her small house is heated by two cords of wood and sunshine. She recycles and composts like a fiend. ''But I feel really guilty because I live a half-hour from where I work and I don't carpool,'' she says. (Maybe that's because she has only five neighbors at Common Farms, a 185-acre collectively owned preserve in the town of Poestenkill, where she built her house.) ''And I occasionally vote Republican,'' she stage whispers, ''but only for local candidates.'' Her nonpartisan weakness -- she is a nominal Democrat -- is female candidates with a sympathetic environmental stance and smart fiscal policies. 
 The opportunity to make rather than simply influence environmental policy is why Ms. Enck left the advocacy side of the aisle to work for Mr. Spitzer: ''Rather than knocking on the door from the outside, I wanted to shape policy from the inside.'' The Pataki administration was aghast when she joined the attorney general's senior staff, and referred to her as ''a bomb thrower.'' It still annoys her. ''Since when is being an advocate for recycling equivalent to throwing bombs?'' 
 Ms. Enck wryly refers to her wing of the building as ''the unarmed side of the Capitol'' -- less security, but more recycling bins. There was just one on her floor in January. Now there are 25.
 THE highlight of her office ephemera, aside from plaques and bumper stickers with the slogan ''Well Behaved Women Rarely Make History,'' is an autographed black-and-white photograph of Jon Stewart, the irreverent talk show host. Two tickets, souvenirs of her visits as a member of the studio audience, are tucked into the frame. 
 Ms. Enck, 47, makeup-free and unfussily attired in a black pantsuit, confesses to being a serious Stewart groupie. It is an addiction tolerated, if not shared, by her husband, Mark Dunlea, a lawyer and former state chairman of the Green Party who is now with the Hunger Action Network. 
 Mr. Stewart's photograph arrived after a friend surreptitiously wrote to him describing Ms. Enck's decision to donate a kidney to her brother-in-law; the friend was hoping Mr. Stewart would call, but Ms. Enck seems comfortable settling for a picture with this inscription: ''Judith, Wow! I'm reluctant to donate used clothing. Kudos to you.'' 
 She blushes, and shares some organic brownies baked by her neighbor in Poestenkill, where she and her husband built their solar-and-wood-stove-heated house way before it was hip to be anti-McMansion. 
 Ms. Enck, whose favorite film is ''The Way We Were'' (go ahead and call her a square; she revels in it), admits to hauling a bunch of interns to soak up Al Gore's sermon in ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' only to fall asleep. Not that global warming does not alarm her: It's just that she knows his message by heart.
 Uprooted, to her intense displeasure, by her parents -- her father was a truck driver, her mother a teacher's aide -- from an urban girlhood in Queens Village and transplanted with four younger, equally outraged siblings to bucolic Cairo in upstate Greene County, Ms. Enck was not an early convert to eco-activism. She hated the Catskills.
 As a teenager, her ambition was to become a pilot. ''My mother kind of pushed me into it,'' she says. ''She was a big fan of Amelia Earhart.'' At 14, Ms. Enck took flying lessons, but she quit when the money ran out, and went on to the College of Saint Rose in Albany, intending to become a social worker. ''I always get a little tickle when my adversaries dismiss me as an elitist environmentalist,'' she says. ''I grew up working class. I know about living paycheck to paycheck.'' Still does. ''Environmental advocacy is not a money maker; state government is high end for us,'' she says. She has a son at Vassar; he is a political science major, as she was. 
 Her major preoccupation these days is the ''bigger, better bottle bill,'' an expansion of the original bill that she helped push Gov. Hugh L. Carey into signing 25 years ago. Then, as now, her opponent is the Republican-controlled Senate. 
 ''I'm much more pragmatic than I was 20 years ago,'' she says. ''What's really sad is that the issues are the same.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture in some copies on Friday with the Public Lives column, about Judith Enck, deputy secretary for the environment for Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York, was published in error. The picture was of Carol Ash, the new state parks commissioner -- not Ms. Enck.

GRAPHIC: Photo: JUDITH ENCK (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); WETLANDS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%) Biographical Information

ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Robin Finn; Judith Enck; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State

CATEGORY: Nature and Environment

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007



73 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Faith In a Venture Built on Faith

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
''I found the Chapter 11 period exhilarating,'' Steven Waldman was saying the other day.
 Mr. Waldman, 44, was sitting in his mildly shabby office in Manhattan, smiling from ear to ear. Atop a bookcase next to his desk stood a brand-new Ellie, that oddly shaped trophy that symbolizes a National Magazine Award, which Mr. Waldman's Web site, beliefnet.com, had won Tuesday night in the General Excellence Online category. This small, independent voice of religion and spirituality, which had been a finalist three times before, had beaten out better-known brands including ESPN, People.com, businessweek.com and Slate.
Beliefnet calls itself a ''multi-faith'' site, meaning it has sections devoted to every religion, from Buddhism to fundamentalist Christian. It also has areas devoted to health, relationships, inspiration and so on. It produces daily e-mail newsletters and offers a place where like-minded people can create communities.
 One of the most powerful such communities, for instance, was begun by a mother whose child died in his early 20s; she wanted to create a place where other parents who had suffered the same awful pain could find support and comfort. Beliefnet is an editorially rich site, with diverse voices, and a nice mix of high-brow thinking and low-brow entertainment. Advertisers have warmed to it. 
 ''It is hard to be both ecumenical and ambitious and aggressive at the same time,'' said Newsweek's editor, Jon Meacham, who has a strong interest in religion and whose magazine once had a business relationship with beliefnet. ''Steve has succeeded in that.''
 Indeed he has. Mr. Waldman, a former magazine writer and editor, conceived beliefnet in the late 1990s, and has been its guiding light and editor ever since. In March 2002, he also became its chief executive. And in that latter fact lies the story I want to tell this morning. Born during the dot-com boom, beliefnet is a company that by all rights should have died with all the other failed ventures when the bubble burst. That it is still here -- and is now thriving -- has a lot to do with the fact that Mr. Waldman isn't just a good editor. He has turned out to be an awfully good businessman as well.
 THOUGH I'm not a regular visitor to the site, I've been following the beliefnet story for years, largely because the company's other co-founder, a consultant and a longtime magazine executive named Robert Nylen, is an old friend and colleague of mine. (I've also known Mr. Waldman for years, though not nearly as well.) Mr. Waldman had been working at U.S. News & World Report during the brief editorship of James Fallows. He had long had an interest in spirituality and religion and had noticed, both at U.S. News and at Newsweek, where he'd been a writer, that religion covers always did well. (''The old joke was that if you could put the Jesus diet on the cover, you'd have your best newsstand seller,'' Mr. Meacham told me.)
 When Mr. Fallows was axed in 1998 by U.S. News's owner, Mort Zuckerman, Mr. Waldman decided it was time to pursue his dream: a magazine about religion, which he planned to call Belief. But as he and Mr. Nylen, who was going to be the magazine's publisher, made the rounds of venture capitalists, they heard the same refrain: ''If you ever decide to turn it into a Web site, give us a call.'' Needless to say, they decided to turn it into a Web site.
 That decision gave them two things. The first was money; from the fall of 1999 to the spring of 2000, they raised $26 million. And, as Mr. Waldman soon realized, it also gave them more editorial flexibility than they would have had with a magazine. ''One of the iron laws of magazines is that you have to have a voice,'' Mr. Waldman said. But beliefnet needed many different voices, which was much easier to do online. It could offer interactivity and community. And it could allow people to explore other faiths -- or dig deep into their own religion.
 What that decision didn't give them was a business model. It was not obvious back then that advertising was going to be the engine that drove Internet profits. So while beliefnet had ad-supported editorial content, it also had a Web hosting service, an e-commerce division and a number of other businesses. None of them generated much revenue, though the company's backers didn't seem to care. ''The V.C.s kept saying, 'There's a new paradigm,' '' recalled Elizabeth Sams, beliefnet's executive editor. The point, everyone believed, was to get big fast, to plant the flag as the dominant site in the category.
 You know the next part of the story, right? Boom turns to bust, and all the backers who didn't care about revenue suddenly care about nothing but revenue. They stop handing over checks. Beliefnet goes through several rounds of painful belt-tightening. First go the free lunches and short-lived masseuse, the only two dot-com perks the company ever had. Then the layoffs begin. By March 2002, the company is bankrupt.
 There were those on the company's board who wanted beliefnet to file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy -- to liquidate, in other words. ''We were a bankrupt dot-com with content, which wasn't cool, about spirituality, which was thought to be non-monetizeable,'' said Mr. Waldman.
 But he was determined not to give up on his idea. ''It was six months after 9/11. I thought, 'This is not a time for a multifaith religious Web site to go away.'' During a contentious climactic board meeting, he argued that the site had one million unique visitors a month, and some steady advertisers, mainly in the dieting and dating category. The board finally agreed to let him take the company into Chapter 11 instead, where it would be protected from creditors while it reorganized, and would at least have a fighting chance. 
 Here's what Mr. Waldman did next. He laid off everybody except a core group of five people, including Ms. Sams, and he offered them the following deal. If they would work for minimum wage, he would give them equity in the company to make up for the huge cut in pay they were taking. (Once the company filed for bankruptcy, of course, the original backers lost all their equity.) They all agreed. As Mr. Waldman notes now: ''The people who were left were the ones who really wanted to be there and totally believed in it.'' They then sold most of the company's furniture, and even canceled its contract with its cleaning crew. The beliefnet executives cleaned the bathrooms themselves.
 Here's a surprising truth: if Mr. Waldman had succeeded in his original desire to start a magazine, it would surely have gone bust. The fact that beliefnet was a Web site had a lot to do with why it stayed alive. The ''pay for performance'' ad model, which largely doesn't exist offline, meant that it didn't matter to advertisers that beliefnet was in Chapter 11, or even whether it would stay in business: If they ran an ad and viewers clicked on it, that's all they cared about. And the site never went dark, not for a day. 
 There was one venture capitalist, John C. McIlwraith of the Blue Chip Venture Company, who also still believed. Though his firm had lost $5 million on beliefnet during the bubble, he put in another $250,000 at a time when the company desperately needed the money. 
 By the time Beliefnet emerged from bankruptcy six months later, cash flow was positive and growing. And Mr. Waldman and his small staff had learned an enormous amount about their business. ''It was in that period that we realized that vitamin ads did well for us, and we realized that health is a big category for us,'' he said. So he began doing more health coverage, and soliciting more health-oriented ads. 
 Ms. Sams recalls the period after bankruptcy as a time when ''we had the luxury of limited choices.'' What she means is that with money tight, the company had to focus its efforts on what made the most sense; it could no longer throw business models against the wall to see what would work. 
 In the subsequent four years, beliefnet's revenue has grown by at least 50 percent annually. Last year, it had $12.6 million in revenue. Its advertisers include giants like Pfizer, Eli Lilly and Disney. And in 2005, it could finally breathe a little: Softbank made a $6.5 million investment. (Softbank and Blue Chip Venture together own a little more than 40 percent of the company; Mr. Waldman and the employees own the rest.) Mr. Waldman did not use the money to get fancier offices. He used it to upgrade the company's technology. 
 Someday, beliefnet will probably be sold to a larger company; as Mr. Waldman concedes, Softbank is going to want to cash in with ''a liquidity event.'' He told me he was fine with that, and why wouldn't he be? If beliefnet were sold tomorrow, my guess is that it would get somewhere in the range of $100 million. 
 At which point, Mr. Waldman will probably give up the title of chief executive and go back to being a full-time editor. Which is a shame, in a way. Mr. Nylen, who remains on the beliefnet board, said one thing that most impressed him about Mr. Waldman was his calm nerve. ''He's a skinny, frail-looking intellectual who turns out have a steel heart and gut. He's the best entrepreneur I know.''
 Ms. Sams described him as ''a very understated leader; he's not a rah-rah cheerleader.'' But, she added, his passion is palpable, and in both good times and bad, he never lost sight of his mission.
 As I was preparing to leave his office, Mr. Waldman took me down a flight of stairs and into a conference room, where he showed me some hideous orange chairs. ''We had these chairs in the old days,'' he said with a wry smile. ''They're so ugly that when we were selling the furniture nobody would buy them. We kept them and they became an emblem. They remind us to remain humble.''
 Everyone should have a boss like that. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Waldman runs beliefnet.com, an online religion magazine. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); WRITERS (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (70%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Religion and Churches; Awards, Decorations and Honors; National Magazine Awards; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Beliefnet.com

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: Joe Nocera; Steven Waldman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



74 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Editors' Note; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 232 words

 BODY:
A front-page article on Wednesday about an academic study that detected a racial bias in the foul calls of referees in the National Basketball Association noted that The New York Times had asked three independent experts to review the study and materials from a subsequent N.B.A. study that detected no bias. 
 The experts, whose names the authors of the two studies did not learn until after the article was published, all agreed that the study that detected bias was far more sound. That study was conducted by Justin Wolfers, an assistant professor of business and public policy at the Wharton School, and Joseph Price, a Cornell graduate student in economics.
 After the article was published, The Times learned that one of the three experts, Larry Katz of Harvard University, was the chairman of Mr. Wolfers's doctoral thesis committee, as Mr. Wolfers had acknowledged in previous studies. Because of this, Mr. Katz should not have been cited as an independent expert.
 An updated version of the Wolfers-Price study added acknowledgments for Mr. Katz and a second expert The Times had contacted, David Berri of California State University-Bakersfield. They were thanked for brief ''helpful comments'' about the paper they made to Mr. Wolfers via e-mail messages after reviewing it for The Times. These later comments would have been mentioned in the article if editors had known about them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editor's Note 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); WRITERS (71%) Basketball; Correction Stories; Blacks; Discrimination; Officiating (Sports); Basketball

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%) New York Times

PERSON: Justin Wolfers; Joseph Price; Larry Katz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



75 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 785 words

PERSON: Ida R. Hoos 

HEADLINE: Ida R. Hoos Is Dead at 94; A Critic of Systems Analysis

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER

 BODY:
Ida R. Hoos, a prominent critic of assessing technology solely on the basis of mathematical models that failed to take account of societal factors, died on April 24 in Boston. She was 94 and lived in Brookline, Mass.
 The cause was complications of a lingering case of pneumonia, said Judith Hoos Fox, her daughter.
Dr. Hoos, a sociologist, was widely recognized as an outspoken critic of systems analysis, which came to prominence after World War II. The approach used mathematical models to perform cost-benefit analyses and risk assessments on complex technologies like radar systems and military aircraft. 
 With the concept strengthening in the 1950s and '60s, when the use of computers to assess technology grew more popular, she wrote widely on a need to balance it with other considerations like effects on the work force.
 ''A kind of quantomania prevails in the assessment of technologies,'' Dr. Hoos wrote in 1979 in the journal Technological Forecasting and Social Change. ''What cannot be counted simply doesn't count, and so we systematically ignore large and important areas of concern.'' 
 Dr. Hoos urged national decision makers to take such assessments ''with a large measure of skepticism lest they lead us to regrettable, if not disastrous, conclusions.''
 Harold A. Linstone, emeritus professor of systems science at Portland State University and longtime editor in chief of Technological Forecasting and Social Change, said Dr. Hoos was in many ways the intellectual conscience in the field of technology assessment.
 ''She basically pointed out that in a lot of complex social and technical systems, a reliance on these systems analysis approaches couldn't always do the job,'' Dr. Linstone said. ''She would not accept the superficial answers or phony arguments.''
 Dr. Hoos also questioned the usefulness of systems analysis when evaluating public policy. Her 1972 book, ''Systems Analysis in Public Policy: A Critique,'' cast a critical eye on the prevailing methods for evaluating education, waste management and health care.
 ''These technical-think-tank types were riding high,'' and Dr. Hoos ''wasn't averse to pointing out that the king was naked,'' said Louis Feldner, an engineer who worked with her on several technical committees over the years. ''And she was respected for it.''
 Ida Simone Russakoff was born on Oct. 9, 1912, in Skowhegan, Me., the middle of seven children. Her parents were immigrants from Russia, her father a jeweler.
 She graduated from Radcliffe in 1933. While studying for her master's degree, which she received from Harvard in 1942, she founded Jewish Vocational Services in Boston, to help Jewish women who were working in the city's garment district find better jobs.
 In 1942, she married Sidney S. Hoos, an economist. The couple later moved to Berkeley, where Mr. Hoos taught in the agricultural economics department at the University of California. 
 Ida Hoos began to pursue her Ph.D. there and became interested in the effects of automation and technology on workers. She received her doctorate in 1959, and her dissertation was published in 1961 as ''Automation in the Office.'' Another book, ''Retraining the Work Force,'' was published in 1967.
 Dr. Hoos remained at the University of California as a research sociologist, first at its Institute of Industrial Relations, then at the Space Sciences Laboratory. At the laboratory, where she was the lone social scientist, she expressed concern over the effect of satellite surveillance on individual privacy.
 She retired from the university in 1982. Over the years, she also served on committees at the National Science Foundation, the National Academy of Sciences, NASA and the Department of Energy. 
 In addition to her daughter Judith, of Boston, she is survived by another daughter, Phyllis Daniels of Goldendale, Wash.; a brother, Philip Russakoff of Skowhegan; three granddaughters; and three great-grandchildren.
 Dr. Hoos was largely unfazed by being a woman in what was seen as a man's field. In an unpublished memoir, she wrote of serving in the 1980s on a high-level committee at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment. The committee had a preponderance of aerospace industrialists.
 ''I was the only woman,'' she wrote, ''and thoroughly used to the Happy Hour salutation of 'Hey fellas -- oh, excuse me, Ida!' ''
 On Jan. 1, 1984, Dr. Hoos was called by National Public Radio and asked for her thoughts on George Orwell's predictions of universal surveillance, now that the year had actually arrived.
 ''On that subject,'' she later recalled, ''I could only say that thanks to the dramatic developments in information technology, we had already been here a long time.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ida R. Hoos (Photo by Carol Palmer, 1996) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MODELING & SIMULATION (90%); DEATHS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MATHEMATICS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); RADAR SYSTEMS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); CHILDREN (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); PNEUMONIA (57%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (55%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Katie Hafner

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



76 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: A Beautiful Mine

BYLINE: By Erik Reece. 
Erik Reece is the author of ''Lost Mountain: A Year in the Vanishing Wilderness.''

DATELINE: ROWDY, Ky. 

 BODY:
MY home state contains the largest contiguous forests in southern Appalachia, which is home to the most biologically diverse landscape in North America. To sit quietly in such a place is an extraordinary thing to do. I have heard ovenbirds and black-and-white warblers, sometimes a wood thrush, as steep ridgelines rose around me, mountains older than the Himalayas. There is a lot to see in this forest: 250 different songbirds, 70 species of trees, bears, bobcats and my favorite nonspeaking mammal, the Southern flying squirrel. 
 Alas, many of these species are vanishing because their habitat is vanishing. A form of strip mining called mountaintop removal has ripped apart all of the ridgelines that surround this forest, leaving miles of lifeless gray plateaus, lunar wastelands. Mountaintop removal entails the blasting of entire summits to rubble in an effort to reach, as quickly and inexpensively as possible, thin seams of bituminous coal. Trees, topsoil and sandstone are dumped into the valleys below. More than 1,000 miles of streams have been buried in this way, and an Environmental Protection Agency study found that 95 percent of headwater streams near mines have been contaminated by heavy metals leeching from the sites. 
 When it comes to mountaintop removal, a certain fatalism seems to take hold in Appalachia -- the coal companies are too powerful, the politicians are corrupt, the regulators won't regulate and the news media don't care. But we cannot give up on rehabilitating Appalachia. While most efforts to reclaim the land destroyed by strip-mining have done little to restore the landscape or improve the region's economy, one effort holds out special promise. It is a three-year-old program within the United States Office of Surface Mining called the Appalachian Regional Reforestation Initiative, and it is based on decades of research. 
 Pioneering foresters found that the best way to grow trees on a strip mine is not to compact the soil, as has been done on most strip mine sites, where regrowth has been scant and slow, but simply to plant saplings in the loose mix of sandstone and shale, known as spoil, that mines leave behind. High-value hardwoods will grow twice as fast in this loose rubble as in their native forest, because there is plenty of room below ground for the roots to take hold, and no competition from taller trees above ground. The porous spoil acts like a sponge during heavy rainfalls and greatly reduces the flooding caused by compacted strip mines. 
 Last spring I took a ride with Patrick Angel, the initiative's point man in Kentucky, to a large mountaintop removal site called Bent Mountain. It was covered with mounded sandstone where foot-high saplings grew. On one acre, 1,000 disease-resistant American chestnuts waved like lawn flags in the gray rock. More small trees grew in the loosened spoil. Mr. Angel told me that the trees' survival rate was 75 percent to 90 percent. 
 Then Mr. Angel drove me to one of the state's largest strip jobs, the Starfire Mine. We pulled away from the heavy machinery and cratered landscape, toward a test site established nine years ago. Back then it looked like Bent Mountain. Nine years later, we were wandering among 30-foot tall poplar and 20-foot tall white ash. The trees had already developed a canopy. If I hadn't heard the sounds of mining in the distance, I could almost imagine myself in a young forest. 
 ''A culture,'' wrote the poet W. H. Auden, ''is no better than its woods.'' Over a million acres have been strip-mined in Kentucky since 1980, and the numbers in West Virginia are worse. Mountaintop removal sites across Appalachia will soon reach the size of Delaware. And much of that acreage has been ''reclaimed'' as pasture: companies spray the mines with a layer of grass seed and hope it takes. 
 But to replace the forest with a grassland monoculture does not reclaim what has been lost. A forest sequesters 20 times more carbon than a grassland, prevents flooding and erosion, purifies streams, turns waste into food and insures species survival. Reforesting wasted mine sites would replace failed industrial methods with a system that mimics nature. Toward that goal, foresters have planted two million high-value trees on 2,700 acres of abandoned mine land. 
 Appalachia's land is dying. Its fractured communities show the typical symptoms of hopelessness, including OxyContin abuse rates higher than anywhere in the country. Meanwhile, 22 states power houses and businesses with Kentucky coal. The people of central and southern Appalachia have relinquished much of their natural wealth to the rest of the country and have received next to nothing in return.
 To right these wrongs, first we need federal legislation that will halt the decapitation of mountains and bring accountability to an industry that is out of control. Then we need a New Deal for Appalachia that would expand the Appalachian Regional Reforestation Initiative, or create a similar program, to finally return some of the region's lost wealth in the form of jobs and trees, rebuilt topsoil and resuscitated communities. Financing should come from a carbon tax on Appalachian coal bought and burned by utility companies across the country -- a tax that would also discourage the wasteful emissions of greenhouse gases. Such a project would educate and employ an entire generation of foresters and forest managers, who would be followed by locally owned wood-product industries and craftsmen like Patrick Angel's brother Mike, who makes much sought-after hardwood chairs just like ones his grandfather fashioned. 
 We know that our species, and most other species, will survive only in a future that burns no coal or oil. The question now is whether we have the nerve to get there before the world's oldest mountains are gone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BIODIVERSITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); REFORESTATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); BIRDS (77%); RODENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (72%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); FLOODS & FLOODING (64%); WEATHER (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%) Coal; Strip Mining; Forests and Forestry; Trees and Shrubs; Carbon Dioxide; Taxation; Electric Light and Power; Coal

ORGANIZATION: Office of Surface Mining (US)

PERSON: Erik Reece

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Appalachian Mountains; Kentucky

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



77 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: A Comeback for the S.&P. (If the Yardstick Is Dollars)

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
IT has taken 88 months, or nearly three-quarters of the decade, but the American stock market is finally back to where it ended the last decade.
 At least that is true if one measures stock performance in the traditional way, using dollars. As the chart accompanying this column indicates, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks ended April a full 1.1 percent above its level of Dec. 31, 1999. 
Unfortunately for those who owned American stocks during that period, the dollar itself has not been a star performer. As a store of value, the buck is having a bad decade.
 The charts show how the S.& P. has performed against some other currencies, and against some alternative investments. 
 One chart shows the S.& P. looking good. The Japanese yen has been surprisingly weak in recent years, as Japan pursued an export-oriented strategy to try to get its economy moving again. Measured in yen, the S.& P. is up 18 percent during this decade. 
 Measured in euros, on the other hand, the S.& P. has lost a third of its value. Measured in British pounds, the decline is 22 percent.
 The great traditional store of value is gold. It was largely ignored and scorned during much of the 1990s, but it has come alive since. 
 Imagine an S.& P. stock unit, consisting of fractional shares of each stock in the index, costing in dollars the value of the S.& P. index. At the end of 1999, that unit would have cost $1,469.25. At the end of April, it would have cost $1,482.37.
 Buying that unit in 1999, when gold cost $289.60 an ounce, would have cost 5.1 ounces of gold. By April, with gold at $683.50, the price of the stock unit was down to 2.2 ounces of gold. That is a 68 percent fall for the stock index.
 Similarly, that stock unit cost the equivalent of 718 bushels of corn back in 1999. Now you can buy the stock unit for only 414 bushels of corn. The unit cost the equivalent of 57 barrels of crude oil in 1999. Now you can buy the stock unit for less than 23 barrels of oil.
 The final chart compares the value of stocks and houses. It uses the S.& P./Case-Shiller index of single-family home prices in 10 major metropolitan areas. That index is available only through February, so the chart shows stock values only through then.
 Measured in house units, in February the stock index was worth 57 percent less than it was worth at the end of the 1990s. Put another way, a home worth $200,000 at the end of 1999 could have been bought for 136 of those S.& P. stock units. By this February, that home, assuming it rose with the house-price index, would have been worth $442,000, and would have cost 314 stock units.
 Measured in almost anything but dollars, a investor in American stocks still has significant losses on stocks owned since the end of the last decade. 

GRAPHIC: Graph Percentage change of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since the end of 1999 Graphs track percentage change of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since the end of 1999. Note: Figures based on month-end values for currencies and for nearby futures contracts in gold, oil and corn. House price figures based on S.&P./Case-Shiller index of single-family home prices in 10 major metropolitan areas. House-price index figures not available for March or April, 2007. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); CURRENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BONDS (77%); BRITISH POUND (69%); EXPORT TRADE (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



78 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Names Not Worth Mentioning, ABC Decides in Escort Case

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4 

 BODY:
In what had become a highly anticipated story about an escort service operating in the capital for the last 13 years, ABC News reported Friday night that the business catered to many men throughout the federal government. 
 The network also disclosed that some customers were prosperous businessmen from out of town and that the women worked for the service to earn extra money.
If none of that seemed surprising -- or even mildly interesting -- what about the names of the men who supposedly sought respite from their high-pressure duties by paying $300 to have the women attend to them in 90-minute sessions? 
 Friday's broadcast of the program ''20/20'' did not disclose any names beyond those of the two men who have already been identified as customers of the escort service.
 ''Our decision at the end was not to name any names,'' said Brian Ross, the news correspondent who presented the segment. Mr. Ross said that the network went with a ''conservative approach,'' and that ''based on our reporting it turned out not to be as newsworthy as we thought in terms of the names.''
 Mr. Ross said that while many of the male customers held positions of some authority inside and outside of Washington, they were not recognizable to the public.
 The roster of names, it seemed, was like Washington itself -- important perhaps, but dull.
 The intrigue began when federal authorities charged Deborah Jeane Palfrey with running a prostitution operation in Washington by telephone from her California home. 
 Ms. Palfrey has insisted that she was operating a legal ''sex fantasy business,'' not a sex-for-money scheme.
 Ms. Palfrey has told reporters that she wants to force some of the male clients to testify in her defense. If any sexual activity occurred, she said, it was without her knowledge and authorization.
 Because she did not know the names of her clients but only their telephone numbers, she said, she gave her records to ABC, which had the resources to match names to the numbers. 
 But Mr. Ross said the network would not be providing names to Ms. Palfrey beyond the two already disclosed.
 The most prominent person in the phone records, ABC executives said, was Randall L. Tobias. Mr. Tobias had been a top foreign aid adviser in the State Department until his resignation on April 27 after he acknowledged to Mr. Ross that he was a client of Ms. Palfrey's business, but used it only to obtain massages.
 The other person whose name has been disclosed is Harlan K. Ullman, a Defense Department consultant whose name, resume and real-estate holdings were reported on Ms. Palfrey's Web site. 
 Mr. Ullman said through a spokesman Friday that Ms. Palfrey was mistaken if she believed he would agree to be a witness in her defense.
 ABC had reported on its Web site on Monday that the list included a Bush administration economist along with senior military officials and lobbyists, among others.
 The administration economist turned out to be a mid-level employee at the Office of Thrift Supervision who was not worth naming, ABC officials said. But the man's case, network officials said, demonstrated that men sometimes exaggerate their importance to the women they pay for company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (90%); MEN (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); POLITICS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%) Prostitution; Television; Escort Services; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Abc News

PERSON: Neil A Lewis; Deborah Jeane Palfrey

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



79 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Schools Are Seeking Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid From Albany

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN; Angela Macropoulos contributed reporting.

 BODY:
John Caruana, an electrician, has been startled by how fast the taxes in his suburban community of North Massapequa have risen since he moved into his small Cape Cod home six years ago with his wife and their three children. 
 His next tax bill could give him the biggest shock yet: Plainedge Public Schools are asking for a 9.3 percent increase in the tax levy, in a year when the district, like many around the state, will also receive a substantial increase in state education aid.
Just weeks after the New York Legislature budgeted a record $900 million in new aid for the state's 671 school districts that are not part of cities, the districts have responded with plans to raise $691 million more in new taxes. 
 ''I make a decent wage, but we're struggling,'' said Mr. Caruana, 46, whose tax bill would grow by about $450 if the school budget passes. (His annual tax bill is now $8,000 a year, up from $6,000 six years ago.) ''I just wish I knew more clearly why taxes are going up so much.'' 
 School officials say that they are doing what they can to reduce taxes, but that they face yearly increases of 5 to 6 percent in teacher salaries, and double-digit spikes in health insurance and energy costs. ''I realistically see districts at 3 to 6 percent every year, and that's if we get decent state aid,'' said Kenneth J. Connolly, schools superintendent in Lakeland in Westchester County.
 But tax opponents say the increases constitute more evidence that state money will not end the drumbeat of higher property taxes. They say New York should emulate New Jersey and Connecticut, where governors have pushed for property tax relief to be accompanied by spending caps.
 ''If you simply give them more aid, it doesn't stop them from raising taxes; it just raises their budgets,'' said E. J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative group. ''You had a big school aid increase last year, and one this year, and they're still raising property taxes.''
 The office of Gov. Eliot Spitzer said in a statement that he ''believes that we must find ways to make it more affordable to provide a high quality education,'' but that he opposes caps on school spending.
 The districts' proposed tax increases, which will be voted on May 15, are generally lower than last year's, but still above the rate of inflation. Statewide, they amount to 4.4 percent; in Westchester, they average 5.6 percent, and on Long Island, 4.7 percent. Nationwide, inflation has been about 3.25 percent over the last year, and the state budget projects it at 2.2 percent over the next year.
 New York City, Buffalo, Syracuse, Rochester and Yonkers do not have independent taxing authority and do not vote on school budgets.
 Even the $436 million in additional rebates passed this year from the School Tax Relief program will not cover the increased tax levy in most districts. 
 To be sure, much of the new state aid is earmarked for lower-income districts, including some in the suburbs, to help the districts catch up to better financed schools. For example, in Copiague, which is one of three high-need districts on Long Island that face a state order to spend money on improving scores, the district plans new hiring, new advanced placement classes and special summer programs aimed at disadvantaged students.
 Many districts say they applied at least a part of their new state aid money to tax relief, but only a few managed to bring tax increases below the inflation rate. Sachem Central School District, in Suffolk County, has proposed a tax levy decrease, and the tax levy proposed by Uniondale Public Schools is the same as last year's.
 ''The only good budget is a passed budget,'' said Charles J. Murphy, the superintendent in Sachem, where taxpayers defeated a budget proposal two years ago. 
 Last year, when the average tax increase was 5.8 percent on Long Island and 7.6 percent in Westchester, 85 percent of school budgets passed in the three counties. On Long Island, that was up from 2004 and 2005, when districts proposed increases averaging more than 7 percent and more than a third of the budgets were defeated. School officials say they are not deeply concerned about a wave of rejections this year.
 Most districts say they are able to soften tax increases, not lower taxes, even with the additional money. Total state aid increased $1.73 billion this year to $19.7 billion, of which $832 million is marked for New York City, Yonkers, Rochester, Syracuse and Buffalo. Last year, in what was at the time a record, aid increased by about $1.1 billion.
 ''It's nearly impossible to maintain programs, meet enrollment increases, and stay within something like the cost of living,'' said Robert Siebert, the superintendent in Eastchester, where the proposed budget calls for a tax levy increase of 5.6 percent.
 In New Jersey, the Legislature passed a 4 percent cap on property tax increases along with a 20 percent tax rebate program this year. And in Connecticut, Gov. M. Jodi Rell proposed a 3 percent cap in March to accompany her proposal for property tax relief, arguing that it was the only way to ensure that districts passed the savings on to taxpayers. 
 The Connecticut legislature is still considering that package, which is opposed by the state teachers union. In New York, Mr. Spitzer's predecessor, George E. Pataki, tried several times to add a cap to the school tax relief program, without success.
 In Plainedge, the superintendent, John Richman, said the board proposed a large increase this year because many parents came to budget meetings in March and April demanding more and better programs. Yards throughout the small, middle class district are pocked with red and white yard signs that read: ''Vote yes for our kids. Plainedge Soccer Club.''
 Plainedge officials have campaigned for the increase by arguing that the average tax increase would be canceled by the enhanced rebate. Dr. Richman calculated that the average rebate under the tax relief program passed this year would be $649, compared to a $632 rise in the average tax bill.
 ''We've been told by school officials'' that the increase in state tax relief ''would offset the rise in the local budget,'' said Eileen Inzerilli, a human resources manager for a Long Island company who has three boys in the Plainedge schools. 
 Still, the growth in tax increases outpaces the growth in rebates. The district's taxpayers will get just $1.7 million in additional rebates this year, far less than the $4.3 million in additional taxes the Plainedge district has proposed. 
 That is true in most districts: statewide, only about a third of the districts will get more in new rebates than they are assessing in new taxes. 
 When it was instituted by Governor Pataki in 1997, the school tax relief program shielded taxpayers from tax increases for about three years before property taxes resumed their upward climb. 
 Business groups expressed consternation that the districts continued to raise taxes. Businesses do not get similar relief, so they bear the full brunt of additional levies.
 ''It's very clear that school taxes and school spending have been in excelsior mode, just going ever upward,'' said Matthew Maguire of the Business Council of New York. ''This is not the first time state aid has been big, and it's not like we've been shorting schools. But we know of no case where raising taxes at one level has caused them to shrink at another.''
 He said his group had not taken a position on a spending cap.
 Paul Vitale, the vice president for governmental affairs for the Business Council of Westchester,said the districts needed discipline imposed from outside. 
 ''Their first inclination is let's spend it, let's not give it back to the taxpayers,'' Mr. Vitale said. ''If they can come in under 10 percent, they feel like they're heroes. The governor should say this money comes with strings attached -- you have to reduce taxes.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Caruana at home in North Massapequa, in Nassau County, with, from left, Nicole, 9
Rachel, 14
Doreen, his wife
 and Christopher, 13. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); INFLATION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Education and Schools; Taxation; Property Taxes; Suburbs; Rural Areas; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Teachers and School Employees; Education and Schools; Wages and Salaries; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (55%) Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



80 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: When Even One Illness Can Push Insurance Costs Up

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
To understand the challenges of insuring the health of the nation's work force, consider Varney's Book Store.
 After a long bout with emphysema an employee at Varney's, a family-owned business in Manhattan, Kan., died several years ago. But for Varney's health insurer, her legacy lived on.
The next year, 2002, the insurer raised Varney's premiums by 28 percent -- even though most of the other three dozen employees were significantly younger and healthier than their departed colleague, who had been in her mid-70's. And Varney's premiums continued to climb. 
 ''It was as if her medical history stayed on the books for an additional three years,'' said Jeff Levin, 46, who runs Varney's with his younger brother. ''How can you justify projecting those costs forward?'' 
 Such are the challenges for smaller businesses in Kansas and the many other states where laws permit insurers to raise health premiums substantially for small employers when one worker incurs significant medical bills. 
 And it is why, as state legislatures, Congress and presidential candidates of all stripes debate the growing problem of Americans without health insurance, the struggles of small businesses -- which employ about 40 percent of the nation's work force -- are likely to become a central issue. Small-business employees are one of the fastest-growing segments of the nation's 44 million uninsured; they now represent at least 20 percent of the total, according to federal census data. And even modest-size employers like Varney's that say they remain committed to providing benefits find themselves wondering how long they can continue. 
 The challenges make small business a particularly tricky piece of the nation's health care puzzle, a problem compounded by the state-by-state jigsaw nature of insurance regulation. 
 ''There are 50 sets of state rules,'' said David Fear, an insurance agent in Sacramento, who is president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, an agents' trade group. 
 With the rising cost of insurance, even the nation's biggest employers are struggling to cover their workers. But large companies at least wield some influence with insurance underwriters and providers of care, and are usually solvent enough to insure themselves as an alternative to the insurance market. Either way, they can spread their health costs over a pool of employees large enough that any one worker's medical bills do not make big financial waves. 
 But small employers cannot exercise those economies of scale. And because they typically are not rich enough to insure themselves, they are almost wholly dependent on insurance companies to provide health benefits. In the many states that do not closely regulate health coverage, small businesses have little bargaining power with the insurers. 
 In a small workplace, as a result, if an employee or a covered dependent becomes seriously ill, or if someone has even a routine medical need like maternity care, the entire group may pay the price through steeply higher insurance rates. 
 ''Almost any kind of situation where one employee has a serious health condition almost makes the group uninsurable, because of cost,'' said the governor of Kansas, Kathleen Sebelius, a member of a group studying health care issues for the National Governors Association. ''Affordable coverage for small-business owners and self-employed individuals is probably the biggest challenge that we have in Kansas and most states.''
 Ms. Sebelius, a Democrat, is currently at work on a bipartisan proposal with the state's Republican insurance commissioner that would insulate small groups by having the state provide backup insurance for the most expensive medical cases. 
 ''If the insurer was guaranteed never to have to pay out over $100,000, for example, it could be a much more stable situation,'' she said. 
 But that only applies a patch to a bigger wound. In Massachusetts, which has embarked on a widely watched effort to make health insurance mandatory, the state plans to address the small-business issue by combining 800,000 small employers and 50,000 individuals into a single pool as a way to even out costs and increase their bargaining power.
 Over the years, small employers around the country, often led by chambers of commerce, have occasionally sought to band into regional groupings. But the efforts often led nowhere -- especially because insurers tend to assume that many young, healthy workers will opt out, leaving them saddled with older, sicker enrollees. 
 That is a big reason Massachusetts will require the young and healthy to join the pool, or pay into a state insurance fund if they choose not to buy coverage for themselves. 
 The insurance rules already in place in some states do provide various buffers for small businesses. Nine states, for example, prohibit insurers from considering the health status of workers when setting rates for small groups. Those include Connecticut, New York, New Jersey and Maryland. 
 A number of states also limit the size of yearly rate increases. Rates in California, for example, typically can rise no more than 10 percent. 
 But in many other states it is essentially every mom-and-pop for itself. Kansas allows rate increases of up to 25 percent a year. Ohio permits 40 percent. In Arizona the annual jump can be 60 percent or more. And for Pennsylvania, Virginia, Hawaii and the District of Columbia, there are no ceilings at all.
 When the rates can leap with each new employee illness, the only recourse may be shopping for another insurer. That is what Varney's did in 2005. 
 The bookstore, popular with students at Kansas State University, switched its coverage to Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Kansas after the previous insurer said it would raise Varney's premium by 17 percent. The reason was that another employee, a 59-year-old woman who was a longtime Varney's bookkeeper, died of stomach cancer the previous year. 
 Varney's former carrier, Trustmark Insurance, based in Lake Forest, Ill., declined to discuss the case's specifics. A Trustmark spokesman would say only that the bookstore had fared no worse over the years than the typical small employer. 
 ''Over time, it appears that their aggregate rate increase was less than the national trend,'' said the spokesman, Patton Hollow. 
 Blue Cross currently charges Varney's about $16,500 a month. The Levins pay 80 percent of that, asking their employees to pick up the rest. A typical share, for an employee and spouse, requires a monthly paycheck deduction of about $115. 
 Even in states that impose government caps on rate increases, those protections may not cover all contingencies. 
 Despite the 40 percent ceiling in Ohio, for instance, United Healthcare early this year levied an increase of more than 100 percent on the premiums of CBG Biotech, a 26-employee hospital supplies maker in Macedonia, near Akron. The insurer argued that the high increase was justified because CBG had violated its contract.
 Ohio permits insurers to solicit advance medical information from employees. One CBG worker had failed to disclose his wife's multiple illnesses -- including cirrhosis, gout and an ulcer -- when he signed up for coverage, according to a letter from United that became part of a court record. 
 When United learned of the omission after the woman was admitted to a hospital, where she died, ''they decided to punish the entire company,'' said CBG's chairman, Gerald W. Camiener.
 United raised CBG's total premium for the duration of the contract to $18,000 a month, from $8,800, he said, and demanded $118,000 in back payments. 
 CBG sought a federal injunction against the increase. In February, Judge Ann Aldrich of the United States District Court in Cleveland denied the CBG request, saying that United Healthcare's actions were permissible under its contract and ''very likely legal, but also very far from laudable.''
 Mr. Camiener, in an e-mail message, lamented that ruling. ''In the past, the policy of health insurers was to disqualify the employee when wrong information was furnished to them,'' he wrote. 
 ''Now,'' he continued, ''the insurers will be coming to the employer and demanding exorbitant sums of money with the threat that the entire group will be cut off forthwith, even in the middle of a policy year.'' Mr. Camiener changed his company's health coverage to Aetna, paying about $15,400 a month in premiums, and he complained to senior executives at United.
 Kenneth A. Burdick, United Healthcare's president, said in an interview that his company had now decided to drop its demand for back payments from CBG and would no longer seek retroactive rate increases in such cases. He also said that because misrepresentation by employees was rare, with only a dozen or so cases a year among thousands of business groups, senior United Healthcare officials would now review the facts in each case. 
 Back in Kansas, meanwhile, Varney's owners say they are doing what they can to keep their health premiums in check. 
 Mr. Levin, 46, says he has been a fitness enthusiast since he had a heart attack in 2002. He says he has stopped smoking (''except for one cigar a year'') and has improved his diet, supplementing it with fish oil pills. 
 And Varney's has made gym memberships a free perk for all employees. ''Our managers can even use a trainer two to three times a week at our expense,'' he said.
 All that may help the Varney's work force stay healthy. But so far, he said, Blue Cross has declined to reward the effort with any additional break on insurance premiums. 
 Graham Bailey, a Blue Cross spokesman, said that if the fitness efforts actually resulted in lower medical expenses, that could eventually reduce Varney's premiums. 
 For now, though, there is little the company can do. 
 ''Since we're family-owned, we have the latitude and commitment to make sure our employees and their families are provided access to health coverage,'' Mr. Levin said. ''My brother and I worry, though, that over time it will keep getting more and more expensive and be out of reach.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Levin, 46, runs a bookstore with his brother in Manhattan, Kan. (Photo by Mike Sinclair for The New York Times) Chart/Map: ''A Portrait of the Working Uninsured . . .'' The majority of the country's uninsured workers are under 35 and employed by small companies. The number of uninsured workers, 2005 By work force size, ages 18-64 UNDER 25: 35.8% 25-99: 13.6 100-499: 9.5 500-999: 3.4 OVER 1,000: 195 SELF-EMPLOYED: 13.3 By employee age UNDER 19 YEARS 19-24: 16.9 25-34: 22.9 35-44: 17.8 45-54: 14.0 55-64: 8.6 . . . And the Risks of Higher Premiums Most states allow health insurers to raise premiums for small employers based on the health of workers, although many set a cap on the increase. Map of the United States highlighting the following: States where employee health cannot be the basis for raising rates Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Vermont and Washington Premium increases can be based on health status, within limits States with no restrictions on raising rates Hawaii, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Dist. of Columbia (Source by Kaiser Family Foundation)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); CENSUS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Small Business; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; States (US)

PERSON: Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) KANSAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



81 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: The Warming Challenge

 BODY:
Yesterday's report on global warming from the world's most authoritative voice on climate change asserts that significant progress toward stabilizing and reducing global warming emissions can be achieved at a relatively low cost using known technologies. This is a hugely important message to policy makers everywhere, not least those in the United States Congress. Many of them have been paralyzed by fears -- assiduously cultivated by the Bush administration -- that a full-scale attack on climate change could cripple the economy. 
 The report was the third this year from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The first report, in February, blamed humans for rising atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. A second report last month warned of famine, floods and other ecological disasters unless emissions were brought under control.
 The new report deals with remedies. It warns that over the course of this century, major investments in new and essentially carbon-free energy sources will be required. But it stresses that we can and must begin to address the problem now, using off-the-shelf technologies to make our cars, buildings and appliances far more efficient, while investing in alternative fuels, like cellulosic ethanol, that show near-term promise. 
 The report also made clear the risks of delay, noting that emissions of greenhouse gases have risen 70 percent since 1970 and could nearly double from current levels by 2030 if nothing is done. For that reason, it said, it is vital for policy makers to discourage older technologies -- coal-fired power plants with no capacity to store carbon emissions, for instance -- so as not to lock in further increases in emissions, which would make the task much harder and more expensive down the road. 
 From a political and legislative perspective, the report could not have been more timely. A run of fortuitous events -- including the panel's first two reports, increased agitation at the state and local level, and the recent Supreme Court decision authorizing the government regulation of carbon dioxide -- has elevated the warming issue in the public consciousness and on Congress's list of priorities. 
 Moreover, many of the report's proposals have already found a home in pending legislation. Bills to increase fuel efficiency in cars and trucks have been introduced in both houses; Jeff Bingaman, the Democrats' Senate spokesman on energy matters, is drafting a measure that would require utilities to generate 15 percent of their electricity from wind and other renewable sources; Barbara Boxer, head of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, has offered an ambitious bill to greatly increase investments in alternative fuels. 
 None of these bills are surefire winners. But by showing that the costs of acting now will be trivial compared with the price to be paid if we do nothing, the report can only improve their chances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (88%); BIOFUELS (87%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); POWER PLANTS (74%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); WIND ENERGY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); ETHANOL (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); FAMINE (69%); ALCOHOLS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (64%); WIND POWER PLANTS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (63%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%) Weather; Editorials; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (83%) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (58%); JEFF BINGAMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



82 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: How Slow Can It Go?

 BODY:
Last week, when the government reported that the economy had slowed to a crawl in the first quarter of the year, any lingering hope for robust employment growth was tempered accordingly. But no one was quite prepared for a job report as weak as the one released yesterday. Only 88,000 jobs were created in April, the smallest gain in nearly two and half years and a sharp deceleration from job growth in the recent past. 
 Predictably, the slowdown was reflected in Americans' paychecks. Weekly earnings are up over the past year. But of late, the rate of increase has dropped significantly. A squeeze on jobs and paychecks is the last thing Americans need right now.
Though the economy has been expanding for more than five years, wages and salaries for most workers have picked up in earnest only in the past year. And now hiring and pay increases appear to be slowing before many families have had the chance to rebuild their finances. For many people, mortgage payments are also being adjusted upward as home prices fall, making it harder for them to refinance their debts. At the same time, the price of everyday essentials, like food and gasoline, is rising. And life's big-ticket items, like health care and education, are increasingly expensive, even as employers and government shoulder less of those costs. 
 If this strain on family finances ends up curbing consumers' spending, the economy at large will be in danger of a recession. The Federal Reserve would probably try to counter such a downturn by cutting interest rates. But rate cuts are not magic. Their effectiveness would depend on the depth of the recession and the ways the lower rates reverberated through global markets.
 More likely, the real solutions will have to be political, not merely technical. When the next downturn hits in force, it will become painfully clear that American workers have not shared in the benefits of Bush-era economic growth in any way commensurate with their hard work and productivity. 
 The nation will need policies -- and leaders -- to reconnect economic growth with rising living standards, for all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); HOME PRICES (67%) United States Economy; Editorials; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Consumer Behavior; Recession and Depression; Productivity; Standard of Living; United States Economy

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



83 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Hiring Slowed Last Month, With 88,000 Jobs Added

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Businesses significantly pared back hiring last month, a sign that the job market may be starting to feel the drag of slower economic growth. 
 The weakness spread across many industries, from banking and retail to construction and manufacturing. In all, employers added the fewest jobs in more than two years.
The jobs figures, laid out yesterday in the Labor Department's monthly report on employment, showed that the tightening was also affecting workers who continued to hold steady jobs. Wages, after having risen at a solid pace last year, are now growing more slowly than inflation, causing many workers to take an effective pay cut. In April, rank-and-file workers -- a group that represents 80 percent of the labor force -- made $17.25 an hour on average, down from about $17.30 in October, in inflation-adjusted terms.
 In raw numbers, employers added just 88,000 jobs in April. That fell well short of the 118,000 average gain over the previous three months. The Labor Department also said that job growth in February and March had not been as strong as it first estimated -- a reversal of the pattern in recent months of the government sharply revising job growth upward. 
 The preliminary employment tallies from February and March overstated job growth in those months by a total of 26,000.
 The unemployment rate was essentially flat last month. It ticked up to 4.5 percent, from 4.4 percent in March, the Labor Department said, a move that looks larger than it actually was because of rounding. (Carried out to three decimal places, the unemployment rate was 4.457 in April and 4.395 in March.)
 Whether the report is the first taste of more deterioration to come or a simply a low point for the job market this year is unclear. Some economists expect growth to revive in the second half of the year, but others are less sanguine.
 ''There are some weak spots emerging,'' said Ian Morris, chief economist of HSBC Securities. ''I think it's too early to call it a turning point'' toward markedly slower job growth, but, he added, ''I suspect that as time moves on we'll see that this was the turning point.''
 Many economists said the report showed that the job market was finally feeling the ripple effects from the problems in the housing market. Last week, the government said that economic growth in the first quarter advanced at the slowest pace in four years. Despite four consecutive quarters of growth below 3 percent, the job market has held steady.
 ''One of the biggest puzzles of the last year has been why employment hadn't slowed more,'' said Richard J. DeKaser, chief economist at the National City Corporation. ''We're starting to see that job growth and output growth are coming into a better alignment.''
 Even industries that were recently feeding much of the job market's growth slipped last month. Retail was the weakest business, shedding 26,100 jobs. Small gains in businesses like furniture stores and automobile dealerships were not enough to offset the loss of 41,000 jobs in general merchandise stores, which include discount warehouses and department stores.
 Construction was weak, becoming more consistent with the downturn in the housing market. In a change from the pattern that has played out in the construction business recently -- commercial building contractors have been hiring and residential builders have been cutting jobs -- the weakness was across the board. The sector lost 11,000 jobs in total last month
 Banks and other financial services businesses cut another 11,000 jobs. The downsizing in manufacturing continued as 19,000 jobs were lost on factory floors last month.
 With the job market downshifting, some economists expressed concern that consumer spending, which has prevented the housing slump from dragging the economy into a recession, could slow. If gas prices continue to rise, that could pinch spending further.
 ''It all comes back to consumption,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute. ''What else is G.D.P. going to fire on?''
 But many economists regarded the first quarter as a low point for growth and said they expected the economy to pick back up as the housing market stabilized. Business investment in general rose in the first quarter, rebounding from a drop late last year, and corporate profits are still strong. Those two factors do not usually foreshadow big job losses and often portend an upturn.
 Not all businesses eliminated positions last month. Restaurants and bars continued to hire, adding 25,000 workers. The education and health care area expanded by 53,000. Federal, state and local governments hired 25,000 workers.
 ''I don't know if you have more of a slowdown,'' said John Silvia, chief economist for Wachovia. He said the likeliest path for the job market in the months ahead was one of moderate growth. ''There still has to be a drag on jobs. We're not just going to flip and start building all these houses again. These things need to be worked out.'' 
 Mr. DeKaser of National City also said he saw more moderate job growth, but added that the outlook could quickly tip for the worst. ''That's not to say we're not in a somewhat perilous moment because whenever growth is brought down to subpar levels, there is a vulnerability the economy is exposed to. So I think we're dealing with a somewhat precarious moment.'' 
 1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.2% Median APRIL: 8.7 1-MONTH CHANGE: +2.4 1-YEAR CHANGE: +2.4 Employment Graph tracks Employment since March 2006. AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS Rank-and file workers APRIL: $583.10% 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1% 1-YEAR CHANGE: +3.4 SHARE OF POPULATION Employed APRIL: 63.0 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.3 1-YEAR CHANGE: Unch. Labor force (workers and unemployed) APRIL: 66.0 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.2 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1 'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT In millions Working part time, but want full-time work APRIL: 4.4 1-MONTH CHANGE: +2.2% 1-YEAR CHANGE: +10.3% People who currently want a job<7> APRIL: 4.7+ 1-MONTH CHANGE: +8.3 1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.7 UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVEL Less than high school APRIL: 7.2% 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2 1-YEAR CHANGE +0.1 High school APRIL: 4.1 1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch. 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3 Some college APRIL: 3.6 1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch. 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2 Bachelor's or higher APRIL: 1.8 1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch. 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4 BY TYPE OF WORK In millions Nonfarm APRIL: 137.7 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1% 1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.4% Goods APRIL: 22.5 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.6 Services APRIL: 115.2 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1 1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.8 Agriculture APRIL: 2.1 1-MONTH CHANGE: -8.4 1-YEAR CHANGE: -8.0 Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted. *Hispanics can be of any race. +Not seasonally adjusted. <7>People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in April'' Unemployment rate Graph tracks Unemployment rate since March 2006. BY DEMOGRAPHICS White APRIL: 3.9% 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1 Black APRIL: 8.2 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1 1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.1 Hispanic* APRIL: 5.4 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.3 1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.1 Asian APRIL: 3.3+ 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.3 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3 Teenagers (16-19) APRIL: 15.3 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.8 1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.7 DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT In weeks Average APRIL: 17.1 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%) Labor; United States Economy; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment; Housing; Consumer Behavior; Recession and Depression; Labor

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (60%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



84 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BASIC INSTINCTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Being Green Doesn't Mean Buying More

BYLINE: BY M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
IT has never been so trendy to be green. By that I don't mean that suddenly everyone is installing solar panels at home or making a commitment to reduce, reuse and recycle as many goods as possible. Now you can think of yourself as an environmental champion just by going shopping.
 These days the greening of America seems to be all about spending money, sometimes silly amounts of money, to buy stuff simply because it is labeled ''organic,'' ''sustainable'' or carries some other tag that reassures the buyer that the purchase is environmentally friendly. 
There's no doubt that in many cases, it does cost more to buy products that use alternative energy sources -- hybrid cars come to mind. Many people, myself included, believe that spending more on organic foods is worthwhile because they are healthier and they require fewer harmful chemicals to produce. 
 But lately I'm noticing that one of the guiding principles of environmentalism -- that overconsumption leads to a heedless use of resources, hence we should all consume less -- has undergone a strange twist. The more upbeat-sounding message that's gaining traction today is that, actually, buying more is a great idea. Just make sure what you buy has all the correct green buzzwords attached to it.
 That many of these so-called green items are exorbitantly priced only seems to add to their cachet. I knew that marketers had razzle-dazzled me when I was tempted by a recent Crate & Barrel ad for a gorgeous white sofa ''designed for the home we call Earth,'' with a frame ''certified by the Sustainable Forestry Initiative'' and cushions that are ''environmentally renewable'' -- all for $1,999.
 Putting aside the question of what an environmentally renewable cushion might be (it reupholsters itself?), I have to question whether there are any genuine benefits from paying more to be eco-chic. Consider the designer hemp dress I saw recently for $185. 
 Hemp is a fiber that grows naturally and prolifically and it needs little by way of pesticides (although it is not yet a commercial crop in the United States, because of its association with its psychoactive cousin marijuana). I would happily buy a dress made from an environmentally low-impact fiber like hemp -- just don't try to sell it to me for $185.
 I felt the same sticker-shock when I got the March issue of Domino, the upscale shelter magazine, which featured the supermodel Shalom Harlow on the cover, along with the headline, ''125 seriously cute eco-makeover ideas for every room.'' I stopped reading after learning that paint with fewer volatile organic compounds would set me back about $80 a gallon, or a davenport made with pesticide-free wool padding and water-based glue would cost about $1,700.
 Then again, I'm not a chemist. Maybe it does benefit the earth to pay a steep green premium for these products, because by doing so you are supporting alternative means of manufacturing. But when you see $245 for Levi's ''eco 501'' jeans -- or even $7.99 for a quart of Mrs. Meyer's all-purpose cleaner, which is ''made with natural essential oils'' and is ''biodegradable and phosphate-free'' -- you have to wonder where your money is going.
 At least, I wonder. Call me old-fashioned, but since when does environmentally friendly have to mean financially excessive? I grant you, there's nothing sexy about the motto ''reduce, reuse, recycle,'' but it's probably better for the planet and almost certainly better for your household budget to think of consuming less, not more -- especially if you're spending your money just because it feels good, looks good or carries the right set of adjectives.
 IT'S not that I'm opposed to some of the efforts to make many of the things we need more environmentally sustainable. But I find myself more inspired by a coalition like the Compact, a nationwide network of people who have resolved to stop buying anything new (with the exception of some personal items), and instead to purchase used goods or refurbish what they already own.
 If you are going to invest extra money in a greener lifestyle, there are plenty of ways to do so that don't necessarily involve going to the mall. 
 In the name of greater energy efficiency, my husband and I are replacing some old windows, we try to drive as little as possible and right now we are testing one of these energy-efficient compact fluorescent bulbs in a lamp in our bedroom. 
 These are small steps, but just as spending more for organic foods seems like a good investment, I think paying extra for new windows or higher-priced light bulbs keeps us moving in the right direction. They lack the glam factor of a designer hemp frock, but there you go.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN MARKET (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (73%); PESTICIDES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (72%); VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (70%); ORGANIC FOODS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); CANNABIS (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (64%) Environment; United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: M P Dunleavey

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



85 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Leadership Woes at the World Bank

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Wolfowitz's Big Mistake'' (column, May 3):
 David Brooks says that Paul D. Wolfowitz, the president of the World Bank, ''now argues that the scandal involving his girlfriend's pay raise is 'plainly bogus.' '' He asserts: ''Wolfowitz has a point. The conflict of interest charge is out of proportion to the hubbub.''
Out of proportion? 
 What kind of world does Mr. Brooks live in? 
 I spent 36 of my 37 working years as a supervisor of others. I never had the tiniest doubt that it would be wrong to intervene to get my companion a raise. 
 More important, it would never have occurred to me that it would be proper to be romantically involved with anyone I was appointed over in the first place.
 Mr. Brooks takes my breath away when he blithely excuses behavior that any first-line supervisor with any ethical instinct knows is wrong. That there is no little voice in Mr. Brooks's head whispering that Mr. Wolfowitz's behavior is out of bounds astounds me. Timothy D. Bunn Marcellus, N.Y., May 3, 2007 To the Editor:
 David Brooks offers, in his inimitably bipartisan style, a refreshingly reasonable perspective on where his Republican Party has gone astray, this time with respect to the so-called Wolfowitz scandal.
 ''If you treat these people with respect,'' he says about Democrats at the World Bank, ''and find places where you can work together, they will teach you things and make you more effective.'' 
 The same could be said about Democrats vis-a-vis their Republican counterparts, and this concept should apply to all levels of government.
 As a lifelong Democrat, I do not always agree with Mr. Brooks. But I always respect and applaud his attempts to inject a semblance of sanity into our all too often corrosive form of ad hominem politics. James P. Rudolph Hoboken, N.J., May 3, 2007 To the Editor:
 You would think from David Brooks's description of events that Paul D. Wolfowitz's only sin was not playing nice with the locals. 
 Republicans like Mr. Wolfowitz do not run into trouble because they cannot handle bureaucratic infighting. They run into trouble because their certitude in their own self-importance makes it impossible for them to recognize improper or incompetent behavior in themselves.
 As a result, they have no way to answer the legitimate concerns about their stewardship without resorting to cries of being victims of baseless partisan sniping. Michael Scott San Francisco, May 3, 2007 To the Editor: 
 David Brooks seems to suggest that Paul D. Wolfowitz is responsible for his scandal at the World Bank only to the extent that he didn't play well with others, particularly Democrats, most of whom Mr. Brooks charitably acknowledges are neither dishonorable nor stupid. 
 Mr. Wolfowitz's lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, says that ''nobody advised Mr. Wolfowitz that he could not do what he did'' (''Committee Is Likely to Say Wolfowitz Broke the Rules,'' news article, May 3). 
 When the rationales offered for the questionable ethics of the president of the World Bank amount to schoolyard excuses, however, it suggests that the man is not up to the responsibilities of his office, and it is time for him to go. David Schwartz Baltimore, May 3, 2007 To the Editor:
 Re ''Why Wolfowitz Should Stay,'' by Nuhu Ribadu (Op-Ed, May 1):
 If only for his effort in helping developing countries save themselves, I believe that Paul D. Wolfowitz deserves a second chance at the World Bank.
 He has clearly redefined the role of the World Bank in its relationship with its primary clientele, the poor and developing nations, by steering the bank away from its seemingly entrenched paternalistic approach. Ayoleke David Okeowo Montgomery, Ala., May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ETHICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Ethics

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

PERSON: Timothy D Bunn; Michael Scott; David Schwartz; David Brooks; Paul D Wolfowitz; James P Rudolph; Ayoleke David Okeowo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



86 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: The French Living Abroad Get a Head Start in Voting

BYLINE: By ERIC KONIGSBERG; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Jean Karoubi, a French hedge fund investor who has lived in New York since 1977, plans to spend much of today at home, ''doing my due diligence,'' he says. He is going to read a ream or two of recent coverage of the French presidential campaign and, more importantly, telephone a number of friends in Paris in search of insight.
 ''I will vote relatively late in the day,'' he said yesterday. ''Right now I'm very close between the two candidates. I'm having a tough time to figure out who to vote for. But I think I can get some inside information from some very plugged-in friends, particularly on the left side.'' 
The final round of the presidential election in France will take place tomorrow. But this year, for the first time, voting is being allowed one day earlier for French citizens living in the United States, to encourage them to show up at the polls. (In the past, by the time voters in America made their way to the booths, most of the results back home were known, and pulling a lever seemed futile.)
 The election pits two self-described political outsiders against each other in a nation in the economic doldrums but resistant to change. On the right, there is Nicolas Sarkozy, the front-runner, known for an authoritarian image and a volatile temper, who vows to shake his country from its attachment to the 35-hour workweek. On the left is Segolene Royal, a Socialist with a questionable command of policy issues who once praised China for the efficiency of its justice system.
 There are more than 18,000 French expatriates in the New York area registered to vote, which they may do at any of three places in Manhattan -- the French consulate, the cultural services office of the French Embassy, or Goethe House -- all concentrated within a few blocks on Fifth Avenue, between 74th and 82nd Streets. Expect to see crowds on the eastern edge of Central Park adjacent to the Great Lawn.
 A fourth voting bureau is in Princeton, N.J., an area with about 5,000 French citizens, according to Sophie Meunier, a scholar of international affairs at Princeton University. ''It's not what you think -- it's not just because of the school,'' she said. ''It's all the pharmaceutical executives.''
 The campaign is being watched closely by much of the world. More than 84 percent of French registered voters cast ballots in the first round of the presidential election two weeks ago -- about 13 percentage points higher than during the 2002 presidential election. And even though the turnout for French voters in the New York region was only 39.6 percent, it was higher than the 28.1 percent of five years ago.
 Back in France, the final round has been viewed as a contest to capture the middle-ground electorate that supported Francois Bayrou, the centrist candidate, in the first round. Over all, the breakdown was 30.7 percent for Mr. Sarkozy, 25.2 percent for Ms. Royal and 18.4 percent for Mr. Bayrou, which means that either of the two final contenders could win handily by capturing the Bayrou vote.
 But among French citizens in America, Mr. Sarkozy holds a much more commanding lead -- with 47.4 percent of the vote in the first round, more than Ms. Royal and Mr. Bayrou combined. And in New York alone, Mr. Sarkozy received more than 52 percent.
 ''In the past, French voters in the U.S. have voted basically two-thirds with the right and one-third with the left,'' said Jean Lachaud, an elected representative of his countrymen living abroad. ''I think that people here will vote for Sarkozy because the work ethics of the left are widely viewed as not being a work ethic.''
 While neither of the candidates, outside their core constituencies, appears to be drawing enthusiastic support, Mr. Lachaud said that Mr. Sarkozy -- who is thought to have a more favorable view toward globalization -- has some appeal, personality aside, to French residents of New York. ''So many of them are in banking and finance over here,'' he said. ''And the French who have made a living in the U.S. have made it on a work ethic which is much harder even than what the right in France believes in.''
 Outside the Lycee Francais on East 75th Street yesterday, Judith Audrain, who was there to pick up her daughter, said: ''Segolene Royal represents women and should be given a chance. There's still that opinion in France where men are above women.'' Mr. Sarkozy, she said, displayed such a view toward Ms. Royal in a recent presidential debate.
 ''He wasn't treating her as an equal,'' Ms. Audrain said. ''His closing remarks basically congratulated her for getting as far as she has, in a patronizing way.''
 Jean-Marc Saffar, who runs a health care consulting company in Manhattan, said he was firmly in the Sarkozy column despite the criticism. ''I do hear some people who say, 'I'll vote for Sarkozy but I can't stand him,' '' he said. ''Look, he's a very ambitious person. Being head of the city of Neuilly at age 28 -- to the French, that might be seen as a little off-putting. That's a very American sort of ambition.''
 One notable exchange of the campaign thus far involved a photograph taken of Mr. Sarkozy at the White House with President Bush in September. Ms. Royal, in a jab at her opponent, said she would never genuflect before Mr. Bush. She also, according to Ms. Meunier, passed up several opportunities to meet with American dignitaries.
 Ms. Meunier said she suspected this had more to do with the candidate's relative inexperience with international affairs than with a desire to snub America or Mr. Bush.
 ''I have been surprised by the way much of the American coverage has cast the election as the pro-American candidate against the anti-American candidate,'' she said. ''I think that's a very American view. But this election, really, it's not about you.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicolas Vandenberghe says that whoever becomes president, the French will complain: ''a national sport.'' (Photo by Robert Caplin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%) Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (58%) Eric Konigsberg; Segolene Royal; Nicolas Sarkozy

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) France

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



87 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: In French Bid, Immigrant's Son Battles Anti-Immigrant Image

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, May 4 

 BODY:
The possible next president of France is the son of an immigrant with a very un-French name who has done as much, if not more, than any other French official to improve the status of minorities.
 He knows the pain of being an outsider and even advocates American-style affirmative action, heresy for many people in officially colorblind, egalitarian France.
Yet the one place that the leading candidate, Nicolas Sarkozy, has dared not go in the days before the election on Sunday are the volatile working-class neighborhoods of France's second-generation immigrants, where he is largely reviled.
 His opponent, Segolene Royal of the Socialist Party, has played on fears that if Mr. Sarkozy is elected, this country's minority youths may take to the streets as they did in 2005, setting cars and buildings aflame. 
 On Friday she said that if he is elected, ''democracy will be threatened,'' The Associated Press reported. She said she felt a ''responsibility to raise the alert about the risks of this candidacy and the violence and brutality that will be set off in the country.''
 The integration of alienated, second-generation immigrant youths into mainstream French society is one of the thorniest problems facing French politics today, and Mr. Sarkozy, as interior minister, tackled the problem head-on with a directness more typical of an American politician than a French one.
 But his Giuliani-inspired zero-tolerance anticrime campaign, his frank, sometimes imprudent talk (tailored to attract far-right voters during an earlier stage of his campaign) and his combative style have turned him into an enemy for many young minorities. Fear that a President Sarkozy would bring five years of heightened tension and violence is an emotion operating at the core of the presidential campaign.
 ''There's never been a presidential election in France in which the leading candidate causes so much fear,'' said Kamel Chibli, who grew up in public housing projects outside Toulouse and now acts as a spokesman on minority affairs for Ms. Royal. ''The future of the country is at stake.'' 
 Certainly, the hoots and jeers that Mr. Sarkozy's name brings amid the crowded high-rise apartment blocks in the Paris suburbs suggest that a Sarkozy presidency would face resistance, if not unrest. Even Mr. Sarkozy's closest supporters concede that there is likely to be some car burning if he wins the election.
 But those supporters argue that, given time, his anticrime campaign and promise of training and jobs for unemployed youths would eventually turn the tense suburbs from increasingly stagnant ghettos into peaceful pools of hope.
 ''If the only reason to vote for Sego is fear of trouble in the suburbs, then democracy is in trouble,'' said Yves Jego, the mayor of one immigrant-heavy northern suburb and a staunch Sarkozy supporter. Sego is Ms. Royal's nickname.
 Mr. Sarkozy himself has struggled as an outsider, describing himself as a ''little Frenchman of mixed blood'' who rose to the top of French politics without going through the normal channels of the elite Ecole Nationale d'Administration as Ms. Royal did.
 His record includes a number of efforts to improve the status of members of the country's minorities, most of whom are Muslim. He encouraged the creation of the French Council of the Muslim Faith, which gave Islam a voice in France. He appointed the first prefect in France who is both foreign-born and Muslim. He has even argued for relaxing rules that restrict government support for building mosques.
 And he supports affirmative action, which the Socialists steadfastly oppose. He has promised to find jobs for 250,000 disadvantaged youths before the end of the year.
 Ms. Royal promises to reinstate neighborhood police officers and reinstate a state-financed youth employment program, both created by the former Socialist prime minister Lionel Jospin and discontinued by Mr. Sarkozy. She has vowed that no young person would remain unemployed for more than six months after leaving school.
 Even many of Mr. Sarkozy's critics concede that his proposals are broader and deeper than those of Ms. Royal.
 ''He is more concrete, more precise than the left,'' said Mohamed Hamidi, editor in chief of Bondy Blog, a fledgling online magazine focused on France's working-class suburbs. ''But he is ready for confrontation.''
 Many people blame Mr. Sarkozy for the 2005 violence, citing his tough talk and policies during four years as interior minister. Soon after getting the job in 2002, he got rid of beat police officers in troubled neighborhoods, chastising patrolmen in Toulouse for organizing soccer games with local youths. ''You are not social workers,'' Mr. Sarkozy said.
 His combative style exacerbated the rising tensions, even as it solidified his credentials with the far right, whose support was critical in winning the first round of voting last month.
 While visiting La Courneuve, a working-class suburb of Paris, after a shooting in June 2005, he vowed to clean out the suburb ''with a Karcher,'' a brand of high-powered industrial pressure washer.
 He inflamed passions further a few months later by telling people in another suburb that he would rid the place of the ''scum'' responsible for petty crime.
 The harsh language, which he and his supporters still defend, defined him as racist in the eyes of many French blacks and Arabs who were already bristling from the police spot checks that came with the anticrime campaign.
 When two youths were accidentally electrocuted while fleeing police officers two days after his ''scum'' remark, working-class neighborhoods across the country erupted in an unprecedented wave of urban unrest that was largely a response to Mr. Sarkozy and his tough tactics.
 While Mr. Sarkozy has moderated his language and struck a more conciliatory tone in the presidential campaign, he did not help matters by proposing last year that France have a ministry of immigration and national identity to ensure that new citizens adhered to France's secular values.
 To many people in the suburbs, the idea seemed to be a way to suppress cultural differences in favor of a traditional French way of life.
 Since the 2005 violence, Mr. Sarkozy has been unwelcome in the suburbs. He made only one visit to a troubled neighborhood during the campaign, a brief, tightly controlled trip to the suburb of Meaux, where he bore the heckles and harangues of angry citizens in a closed meeting with more than 300 police officers posted outside.
 But Mr. Sarkozy's supporters say that the law-and-order drive and social programs, in time, would have a deeper impact on the stagnation in the suburbs, for which they blame 20 years of Socialist Party policies.
 ''You have to be firm with people who interfere with other people's lives,'' Taymir Boungou-Pouaty said as he watched a handful of police officers intervene to stop a fight outside La Courneuve's notorious ''city of 4,000'' housing projects, so named because it includes about 4,000 apartments. ''You can't coddle them.''
 Mr. Boungou-Pouaty, an immigrant from Congo, was one of the handful to benefit from Mr. Sarkozy's 2005 visit to the suburb. He was hired by a French company as part of Mr. Sarkozy's affirmative action plan and is now a volunteer in Mr. Sarkozy's campaign. 
 He said many people in the housing projects supported Mr. Sarkozy, even if they were reluctant to talk about it.
 ''They speak through the ballots,'' he said, noting that while Ms. Royal won 41.1 percent of the vote in La Courneuve, Mr. Sarkozy received a respectable 22.9 percent, more than the centrist candidate Francois Bayrou, and better than President Jacques Chirac fared in the 2002 presidential election. ''There are people that want a little order, a little rigor,'' Mr. Boungou-Pouaty said.
 He is reassured because Mr. Sarkozy himself was born to a refugee, a Hungarian.
 ''The name Sarkozy isn't French like Royal or Le Pen,'' Mr. Boungou-Pouaty said, referring to Ms. Royal and the defeated far-right candidate, Jean-Marie Le Pen. ''To have a name like that at the top of France, that's something.''
 But the accusations of racism have stuck. The soccer star Lilian Thuram says that Mr. Sarkozy told him during the 2005 unrest that ''it's the blacks and Arabs who create problems in the suburbs.'' Though Mr. Sarkozy says the story is not true, Mr. Thuram has repeated it over and over, becoming a popular voice of the anti-Sarkozy movement.
 ''If Sarkozy wins, I'm sure there'll be trouble the night of the elections,'' said Mr. Hamidi, the Bondy Blog editor. ''With Sego, things will be calm for five years.''
 In a way, Mr. Sarkozy's confrontational style has already changed the suburbs, where economic stagnation had deepened political apathy. Many minority youths registered to vote in the wake of the 2005 unrest, and abstentions in the suburbs fell by half to about 15 percent in the first round of voting.
 Mr. Boungou-Pouaty warns that Mr. Sarkozy would have only one chance to make good on his message.
 ''We will see how he constitutes his government, whether it includes blacks and Arabs,'' Mr. Boungou-Pouaty said. ''If they disappoint us, it's over.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Taymir Boungou-Pouaty, an African immigrant, plans to vote for Nicolas Sarkozy tomorrow. ''There are people that want a little order,'' he said. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); RELIGION (74%); REFUGEES (73%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (61%); PUBLIC HOUSING (61%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (57%) Immigration and Refugees; Children and Youth; Social Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Elections; Crime and Criminals; Election Issues; Islam

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (78%) Craig S Smith; Segolene Royal; Nicolas Sarkozy

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) France; France

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007



88 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority Can Buy Lease of Stewart Airport

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

 BODY:
During a ceremony at Teterboro Airport last Thursday, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey signed a bill that authorizes the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to expand two airports -- one in each state -- to relieve air congestion. 
 The bill will allow the Port Authority to purchase the lease of Stewart International Airport in Newburgh, N.Y., about 70 miles north of Manhattan. The law allows the Port Authority to expand outside of its current jurisdiction area, a 25-mile radius from the Statue of Liberty.
 The Port Authority bought the $78.5 million lease from Stewart Airport's current owners until March 2099. The agency could take over operations at the airport by this fall. 
 New York State has passed similar legislation. The Port Authority said that no site in New Jersey has been designated for expansion at this point. 
 ''Expanding our capacity to handle air traffic will reduce the tremendous strain placed on our airports and will ensure that they can continue to serve as drivers of economic growth in the future,'' Mr. Codey said in a statement. 
 Of the three major airports in the New York metropolitan area, Newark Liberty International handled 444,258 flights in 2006, compared with 378,329 at Kennedy International and 399,821 at La Guardia. Teterboro, which typically handles smaller planes, served 187,840 flights in 2006, said a Port Authority spokesman, Pasquale DiFulco.
 State Senator Paul A. Sarlo, who co-sponsored the bill, said it would help residents near Newark Liberty and Teterboro ''who have dealt for far too long with the noise and the air traffic congestion.'' JOHN HOLL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (95%); PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); LEGISLATION (91%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); DIVESTITURES (69%) Airlines and Airplanes; Renting and Leasing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Law and Legislation; Airports; Stewart International Airport (Newburgh, NY); Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

PERSON: Richard J (Acting Gov) Codey; John Holl

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; New York State; Newburgh (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



89 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: A Good Provider Is One Who Leaves

 BODY:
Jason DeParle (April 22) does an important service by putting a human face on migration. But economic remittances are not the only things migrants send back to their homelands. They also send back social remittances. Depending on what they have witnessed, migrants often demand more from their governments. They want institutions that work, political voice and jobs that are allocated on the basis of merit, not on whom you know. This is a piece of the puzzle that development planners and world bankers should not overlook. 
 Peggy Levitt
 Chairman, Department of Sociology, Wellesley College
 Wellesley, Mass. The recent international ''discovery'' -- known of course to families like the Comodases and to countries like the Philippines for some time -- of remittances and their scale threatens to channel the remittance dialogue into the language of international bodies and in the process to give immigrant-destination countries like Saudi Arabia and the United States an undue influence directing the forms and use of remittances.
 What is true about these discussions is that they may manage to ignore or overlook the crucial insight that DeParle so compellingly presented in his depiction of Emmet and Tita's family: namely, remittances are first and foremost about love. By calling attention to this love, and the sacrifices made in the name of love, DeParle's article may be a tool for resisting efforts to tax or otherwise impose from the top down the ways of speaking and thinking about remittances. Ezra Rosser
 Washington Your article highlights a challenge of the global economy for many developing nations, namely the millions of people seeking work outside their home country. In the Philippines, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo has put in place an economic program that is reversing this decades-old trend. She has declared that the object of her modernization program is to achieve the day when going overseas to find work is a matter of choice, not the only option for many of her countrymen. In the six years that she has been in office, some five million new jobs have been created in technology and manufacturing. In particular, 300,000 new jobs have been created in business-process outsourcing since 2000, and the Philippines is now one of the leaders in this rapidly growing global industry. Willy C. Gaa
 Ambassador, Embassy of 
 the Philippines
 Washington Every developed nation that has migrants zeroing in on its borders, with hopes of finding employment, also has a sizable number of citizens who are struggling to survive at, or below, the poverty level. In the United States, citizens lacking higher education find the once dependable jobs in the manual-labor industries are now going to a large foreign work force or being outsourced to foreign nations, where the workers simply stay put while the jobs migrate to them. Eddie Brown
 New York I read several Philippine newspapers every day and am surprised that a foreign periodical like yours has a better analysis of the situation in the Philippines than any of the local newspapers. 
 I wish that Jason DeParle had written more extensively about the role of religion in the poverty of my country. At the Catholic church in my neighborhood (and this is typical) is a painted sign of the Sacred Heart of Jesus with the words, ''Pray, your wishes will soon come true.'' You'd think this was Disneyland. Edgardo M. Oreta
 Manila 

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Stephanie Sinclair) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



90 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; AROUND WESTCHESTER: STAGE AND SCREEN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: A Winning Producer Chronicles a Broadway Season on Film

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

 BODY:
ONE opening night has come and gone, leaving mostly big smiles in its wake. But for Dori Berinstein, one of the three leading producers of ''Legally Blonde,'' which opened on Broadway April 29, the anticipation has just begun. On Friday she will make her debut as a film director when ''ShowBusiness: The Road to Broadway,'' a full-length documentary that she also produced, opens in Manhattan. 
 The film will also have a special showing at the Jacob Burns Film Center in Pleasantville on May 14. Ms. Berinstein will be there along with Broadway artists featured in the film, which gives an insider's view of a tumultuous season on Broadway -- a subject that Ms. Berinstein knows a thing or two about. She has produced 11 Broadway shows, winning Tony Awards for 3 of them (''Thoroughly Modern Millie,'' ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest'' and ''Fool Moon''). 
Ms. Berinstein, 46, a Bedford Corners resident, became intrigued with theater as a child in Los Angeles, seeing shows with her parents and wondering about the lightning-quick costume changes between scenes. ''I had no talent to be onstage,'' she said in a recent interview in the lobby of the Palace Theater, where ''Legally Blonde'' is playing, ''but I was fascinated by the choreography of the show on the other side of the curtain.''
 After graduating from Smith College, Ms. Berinstein worked as an investment banker before attending the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and the Yale School of Drama, where she studied the history of theater economics. ''ShowBusiness,'' she said, was inspired by a book she read in college, ''The Season: A Candid Look at Broadway,'' by William Goldman, which chronicled the 1967-68 theater season. 
 In making the film, Ms. Berinstein said she relied on her own intimacy with the process to reveal how a Broadway season takes shape. She shot footage on every major show that got under way in 2003-04, whittling it down in the editing room to concentrate on the four with the most fireworks: ''Taboo,'' the Boy George-Rosie O'Donnell collaboration; ''Caroline, or Change,'' a high-minded show that struggled commercially; and two blockbusters, ''Avenue Q'' and ''Wicked.'' 
 The film features skeptical critics, novice playwrights, ecstatic fans and a surprising night at the Tony Awards when the maverick ''Avenue Q'' upset the $14 million production of ''Wicked'' to win Best Musical. 
 The film's heart lies in the story of ''Q,'' which went from Off Broadway to the big time and is still running. ''I loved their excitement and passion,'' Ms. Berinstein said of the show's co-lyricists and composers, Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx, and its book writer, Jeff Whitty. ''Everything was a first for them.''
 While this is Ms. Berinstein's maiden voyage as a film director, it is not her first experience with film. She has produced or supervised more than 15 movies, including the award-winning documentary ''Unzipped'' and ''Dirty Dancing,'' the 1987 hit that brought her together with her husband, Mitchell Cannold, who was its executive producer. She has also produced and directed for television. 
 Ms. Berinstein, who has two children, ages 13 and 9, has finished directing a second documentary, ''Some Assembly Required,'' about a toy competition for children, and is at work on a third, about an elderly hip-hop cheerleading squad for the New Jersey Jets. 
 ''ShowBusiness,'' which will open in the spring in other cities, was shown at the 2005 Tribeca Film Festival and won the Grand Jury Prize for best documentary feature at the 2006 Florida Film Festival. Ms. Berinstein said she wanted it to show the commitment required to produce live theater. ''Broadway people are athletes, giving the performance of their lives every night,'' she said. ''With film, once it's in the can, you never have to think about it again. I hope 'ShowBusiness' gets that across -- that everyone behind the curtain is so passionate and willing to take risks to follow their dreams and try to create something magical.''
 And that includes producers like Ms. Berinstein herself, who are guaranteed no income for their labor, although they can hope for runaway successes like ''Avenue Q.'' ''If I were doing this just to make money,'' Ms. Berinstein said, ''I'd go back to investment banking.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: BACKSTAGE -- Dori Berinstein turned director for her documentary ''ShowBusiness.'' (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); FILM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); HISTORY (71%); WRITERS (67%); THEATER (58%) Theater; Documentary Films and Programs; Motion Pictures

PERSON: Dori Berinstein; Roberta Hershenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



91 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Local Forecast: Bad

BYLINE: By George R. Hendrey and Stephen Pekar. 
George R. Hendrey is a professor and Stephen Pekar is an assistant professor at the Queens College School of Earth and Environmental Science.

 BODY:
THE recent heavy storms that left downtown Manville, N.J., under 10 feet of water; filled the basements of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; and flooded rivers and downed power lines in Connecticut may have provided a glimpse of our future. Climate change is accelerating, and the prognosis for the region is alarming, as it is for the rest of the world. No matter how effectively we begin to curb our greenhouse-gas emissions now, we are destined to see significant climate changes because these gases remain in the atmosphere for a long time. We cannot delay planning for the environmental and human calamities that lie ahead. 
 All over the world, according to the 2007 scientific report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, ''it is very likely that hot extremes, heat waves and heavy precipitation events will continue to become more frequent.'' But we need look no further than our own backyard to find evidence of warming. Since 1950, average summer temperatures in New York City have increased by seven-tenths of a degree per decade, but for the last 20 years, by more than two degrees per decade. 
By the middle of this century, with both temperature and humidity rising, the regional climate will resemble that of today's Maryland, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists. And by 2100, if greenhouse-gas emissions continue to increase at the present rate, New York's heat index could resemble that of northern Georgia, with 60 or more days above 90 degrees and 25 days at over 100 (we now average just two days over 100 a year). 
 Average sea temperature off our coast has risen by more than two degrees since 1979, and by 2100 it will be four to eight degrees higher. These rising water temperatures will likely lead to stronger and more damaging storms. In 1954, when Hurricane Carol passed over Long Island and hit Connecticut, the tidal surge at New London was 10 feet high. Many scientists feel it is only a matter of time until a truly devastating hurricane makes a direct hit on New York, Connecticut and New Jersey.
 Nicholas K. Coch, a hurricane expert at Queens College, predicts that a Category 3 hurricane (the strength of Hurricane Katrina when it hit Louisiana) making landfall just west of the Hudson River Estuary would result in a greatly amplified storm surge, owing to the piling up of coastal waters in the almost right angle formed by the New Jersey and Long Island shores. Surge levels would rise to 20 feet at the Statue of Liberty and more than 26 feet in Jamaica Bay. This would cause extensive flooding of the New Jersey shore, Staten Island and Lower Manhattan, the Rockaways and Coney Island, southern Brooklyn, much of Queens, part of Long Island City and Astoria, and Flushing Meadows-Corona Park and continue on to the Westchester shore.
 Rising sea levels will only intensify such storm surges. In the past 100 years, while the global sea level has risen by four to eight inches, water levels in New York Harbor have risen by about a foot, and they are expected to rise five more inches by 2030. Without any controls on greenhouse-gas emissions, the sea level could rise as much as three and a half feet by 2080, Columbia University scientists estimate.
 These predictions and actual experience are already depressing property values in low-lying areas and making it more difficult for some homeowners in flood-prone areas to get insurance. As climate change progresses, the economic impact will only increase. 
 Facing up to climate-driven perils will require comprehensive regional planning. We might consider, for example, ceasing government payments for storm damage to buildings in flood zones. This would gradually reduce and ultimately eliminate housing from the shoreline in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. If we were to replace the housing with restored wetlands and woodland parks at the water's edge, it would help stabilize the coastline. New sea walls in Lower Manhattan might help protect the city from the high waves created by future hurricanes.
 We don't presume to know all of the precautions that will be required, nor their priority and timing, and no one else knows either. What is needed is an international institute, centered in New York, where leaders of the world's great cities along with urban planners, environmental scientists, economists and various other experts can put their knowledge together to prepare for future climate change. We must begin to imagine what may happen, and start investing now, to keep the region safe for this century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RIVERS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); CITIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); OCEANS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Floods

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%)

PERSON: George R (Prof) Hendrey; Stephen Pekar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



92 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD: NERVOUS ENERGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
SAUDI ARABIA, home of Islam's holiest sites, flush with oil revenue, and increasingly the most influential player among Arab countries, has long resisted changing its ultratraditional ways. Now the intrusions of global economics and technology have begun to challenge some traditions in ways that the country's idealists could not. And the strain that this is causing is showing in the form of surprisingly open debate about how much Saudis really want to modernize.
 While the notorious religious police still roam this capital city, much is evolving in the way people live. Saudis are suddenly overwhelmed with credit card debt. Thousands have grown rich, and thousands more have lost large sums, in the stock market. Foreigners can now invest in the country's insurance services, mining, railroads, airlines and satellite transmission services, all once off limits.
Much of this economic activity has been driven by the leaders' desire to have Saudi Arabia be more economically competitive, more a part of the modern world beyond its borders. The government is building huge new industrial cities that will have to attract many tens of thousands of foreign professionals; that is expected to bring more changes -- in social and legal habits -- as a price of admission to a global consumer economy. 
 ''In order for the cities to succeed we have to ease all kinds of regulations and rules in order to compete not only with the world, but with the region,'' said Jamal Kashoggi, the editor of the daily Al Watan.
 One example of adaptation involves the World Trade Organization, which requires members to follow uniform trade policies, including protecting copyrights. When Saudi Arabia asked to join, its religious judges had to be convinced that bootlegging videos and software constituted stealing under Islamic law. So a group of judges was flown to Geneva, where officials participating in the talks said they were, eventually, convinced. 
 Meanwhile, even as efforts to bring elements of representative democracy to Saudi Arabia have stalled, it has been impossible to shield it from outside sources of information like satellite television and the Internet.
 The intrusion of all these temptations and influences has left Saudi rulers caught between two impulses -- the drive, which they support, to push their nation toward modernity so it can compete, and the expectations of the country's many conservative and religious citizens that the government will continue to guard Saudi traditions.
 So Saudis are engaged in an increasingly public debate over their identity. Should the school curriculum be changed, with English taught before seventh grade? Should women drive? Should stores stay open past 10? What constitutes religion and what is tradition? 
 The surprisingly open nature of this discussion, itself a rarity in a society where people often do not know their own neighbors, has rattled nerves.
 ''Whether it is good or not, it is there,'' said Saleh al-Wohaibi, secretary general of the World Assembly of Muslim Youth. ''It is there for discussion. It is there in the media. It is there in the prayers.''
 Fifty years ago, Riyadh, the Saudi capital, was a city of mud houses and people who had to make their own shoes. Today, the center of the city is wireless and has Starbucks, Saks Fifth Avenue and Baskin-Robbins. 
 And the debate over its future can be openly satirized. 
 One day last month, a young man stood at the center of a stage with long ropes bound around each wrist. One pulled him to the left, the other to the right -- one toward secularism, the other toward religious extremism. His father struggled to hold him in the middle, shouting ''Enough! Enough!'' Looking at the religious side, he said, ''From here, there is destruction and zeal.'' Then looking to the other side, he said, ''There, is doom.''
 The play, ''A Moderate With No Moderation,'' had been performed since last November at Al Yamamah College, one of a new group of private schools that are considered a concession to the reform agenda. During the opening performance, religious zealots attacked the audience and the performers and forced a cancellation of the show. But the next day the show went on.
 ''It is an unusual circumstance,'' said Fawziya Abou Khalid, a sociology professor at King Saud University who presses for women's rights. ''Five years ago maybe the whole college would be shut down, not just the play.''
 Saudi cities have traditionally had no central square where people could mix easily and express opinions openly. In many neighborhoods, families build towering walls around their houses to protect privacy and shelter women. The main place for large gatherings outside the family has been the mosque.
 But today in Riyadh, shopping malls have become town squares. Air-conditioned against the withering heat, they are often filled until early morning with men and women. A year and a half ago a new television program, ''Question of the Day,'' sent reporters into the malls to ask people, on camera, for their opinions. 
 At first, people declined, but now the show is so popular, the producers said, that it has spun off a sequel. The questions have covered wide ground -- women in the work force, religious attitudes, bird flu. The channel, Al Ekhbariya, for the first time in decades has allowed a woman to read the news. 
 When King Abdullah assumed the throne two years ago, there was great anticipation he would speed up social and political reform. But he needs consensus among various power bases -- notably his extended family, which includes princes in line for the throne who are politically aligned with religious conservatives. 
 That is one reason the government simultaneously supports the most radical religious elements while also trying to chip away at their efforts. 
 The leadership, for example, has not pushed to change a public school curriculum loaded with teachings that promote intolerance -- even hostility -- toward other faiths. But the curriculum often has been criticized as failing to prepare Saudi graduates for the modern world. So, after an international ranking put three Saudi universities among the world's worst, the king announced that $32 billion would go to new education-related projects, including a plan to bring in foreign consultants.
 In other words, the signals remain mixed. Ms. Abou Khalid, the sociology professor, said that for 14 years she and a few other women gathered in their homes to debate and discuss issues. A few months ago, the government announced that sites for such gatherings must first get permission, effectively shutting them down. 
 Muhammad Al Zulfa, a historian and member of the Shoura Council, an advisory body to the king that resembles a parliament but with no legislative authority, said: ''The conservatives are not happy to see any change.'' ''The conservatives say they are protecting the values of society,'' he said. ''They are protecting their privileges.''
 Sheik Ibrahim al-Huqeil, the leader of a community mosque, disagreed, saying the intent was to preserve Islamic identity. His biggest fear, he said, is that Islam might end up like Catholicism, in which, he said, church members do not feel a need to obey their leaders. 
 ''The liberals, if they want to promote Western values, they cannot say they want to deny Islamic values,'' he said. ''The people will not go for that. So they go through the process of changing these things into tradition. But at the end of the day, it is about changing our Islamic identity.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Imagine -- Atop the Kingdom Tower in Riyadh, a modern future seems near. But many Saudis wonder about the cost. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Question Time -- A Saudi television crew seeks out opinions in a Riyadh mall. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHICS (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); CURRICULA (69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (68%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (67%); COPYRIGHT (66%) Islam; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; United States Attorneys; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: World Bank; Justice Department; World Bank

PERSON: Michael Slackman; Mark Leibovich; George W (Pres) Bush; Paul D Wolfowitz; Shaha Ali Riza; Alberto R (Atty Gen) Gonzales

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Saudi Arabia; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



93 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Local Forecast: Bad

BYLINE: By George R. Hendrey and Stephen Pekar. 
George R. Hendrey is a professor and Stephen Pekar is an assistant professor at the Queens College School of Earth and Environmental Science.

 BODY:
THE recent heavy storms that left downtown Manville, N.J., under 10 feet of water; filled the basements of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; and flooded rivers and downed power lines in Connecticut may have provided a glimpse of our future. Climate change is accelerating, and the prognosis for the region is alarming, as it is for the rest of the world. No matter how effectively we begin to curb our greenhouse-gas emissions now, we are destined to see significant climate changes because these gases remain in the atmosphere for a long time. We cannot delay planning for the environmental and human calamities that lie ahead. 
 All over the world, according to the 2007 scientific report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, ''it is very likely that hot extremes, heat waves and heavy precipitation events will continue to become more frequent.'' But we need look no further than our own backyard to find evidence of warming. Since 1950, average summer temperatures in New York City have increased by seven-tenths of a degree per decade, but for the last 20 years, by more than two degrees per decade. 
By the middle of this century, with both temperature and humidity rising, the regional climate will resemble that of today's Maryland, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists. And by 2100, if greenhouse-gas emissions continue to increase at the present rate, New York's heat index could resemble that of northern Georgia, with 60 or more days above 90 degrees and 25 days at over 100 (we now average just two days over 100 a year). 
 Average sea temperature off our coast has risen by more than two degrees since 1979, and by 2100 it will be four to eight degrees higher. These rising water temperatures will likely lead to stronger and more damaging storms. In 1954, when Hurricane Carol passed over Long Island and hit Connecticut, the tidal surge at New London was 10 feet high. Many scientists feel it is only a matter of time until a truly devastating hurricane makes a direct hit on New York, Connecticut and New Jersey.
 Nicholas K. Coch, a hurricane expert at Queens College, predicts that a Category 3 hurricane (the strength of Hurricane Katrina when it hit Louisiana) making landfall just west of the Hudson River Estuary would result in a greatly amplified storm surge, owing to the piling up of coastal waters in the almost right angle formed by the New Jersey and Long Island shores. Surge levels would rise to 20 feet at the Statue of Liberty and more than 26 feet in Jamaica Bay. This would cause extensive flooding of the New Jersey shore, Staten Island and Lower Manhattan, the Rockaways and Coney Island, southern Brooklyn, much of Queens, part of Long Island City and Astoria, and Flushing Meadows-Corona Park and continue on to the Westchester shore.
 Rising sea levels will only intensify such storm surges. In the past 100 years, while the global sea level has risen by four to eight inches, water levels in New York Harbor have risen by about a foot, and they are expected to rise five more inches by 2030. Without any controls on greenhouse-gas emissions, the sea level could rise as much as three and a half feet by 2080, Columbia University scientists estimate.
 These predictions and actual experience are already depressing property values in low-lying areas and making it more difficult for some homeowners in flood-prone areas to get insurance. As climate change progresses, the economic impact will only increase. 
 Facing up to climate-driven perils will require comprehensive regional planning. We might consider, for example, ceasing government payments for storm damage to buildings in flood zones. This would gradually reduce and ultimately eliminate housing from the shoreline in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. If we were to replace the housing with restored wetlands and woodland parks at the water's edge, it would help stabilize the coastline. New sea walls in Lower Manhattan might help protect the city from the high waves created by future hurricanes.
 We don't presume to know all of the precautions that will be required, nor their priority and timing, and no one else knows either. What is needed is an international institute, centered in New York, where leaders of the world's great cities along with urban planners, environmental scientists, economists and various other experts can put their knowledge together to prepare for future climate change. We must begin to imagine what may happen, and start investing now, to keep the region safe for this century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RIVERS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); CITIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); OCEANS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Floods

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%)

PERSON: George R (Prof) Hendrey; Stephen Pekar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



94 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: When Words Speak Louder Than Actions

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AGAIN this week, the key task for Federal Reserve policy makers will be to decide what to say, not what to do. Few people expect the central bankers to nudge interest rates up or down, but the usual language in the statement that accompanies the rate decision could be due for some tweaking, one analyst predicts. 
 Henry J. Herrmann, the chief executive of Waddell & Reed Financial, anticipates slightly more mellow language than in previous statements when the Federal Open Market Committee makes its announcement on Wednesday. The neat rhetorical trick, he said, will be to alter the wording without changing the Fed's broad message that it has the economy right where it wants it.
The policy makers ''will stay on hold, and I think they might slightly soften up whatever commentary they make,'' Mr. Herrmann said.
 Nothing in recent economic data would suggest to the Fed that the economy has been showing too much strength, he said. On the contrary, the housing market continues to look feeble. And the initial reading of first-quarter economic output was weaker than expected, although several revisions are possible to the annual rate of 1.3 percent reported late last month.
 ''They will continue to grumble about tightness in labor markets and inflation risk,'' Mr. Herrmann said, ''but they will leave an overall impression of economic slowing.''
 The bankers are also likely to leave the impression that they do not expect to have to adjust interest rates for a while.
 ''They aren't going to do anything to suggest they have to be aggressive and raise rates,'' he said, ''and there's not enough weakness to convince them to say that they can cut rates.''
 Any softening of the statement's language should help stocks, Mr. Herrmann said, because it would convince traders that the Fed will remain untroubled and untroubling. With no change in policy in sight, traders will be free to concentrate on corporate earnings, which have been better than many people on Wall Street expected a few months ago.
 ''The stock market has been very impressed with earnings in the last quarter,'' he said. ''A lot of people were thinking that gains would be 3 percent to 5 percent, but it's going to come out closer to 10 percent, and I don't see anything in the near term that's going to give them doubts about the second quarter.'' DATA WATCH -- A Bloomberg News poll of economists predicts that the report on the nation's trade deficit for March will show a widening to $60 billion from $58.4 billion in February. The report is to be released on Thursday.
 The next day, wholesale prices, excluding volatile food and energy items, are expected to show a 0.2 percent increase for April, after no change in March. Another report that day is predicted to show an increase in retail sales, excluding automobiles, of 0.4 percent for April, versus 0.7 percent growth in March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (57%); WADDELL & REED INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: WDR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



95 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 918 words

PERSON: Edward Boyd 

HEADLINE: Edward Boyd, 92, Marketer to Blacks, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Edward F. Boyd, who as a young sales executive parlayed his assignment to promote Pepsi-Cola to fellow blacks into a war against white racism and black stereotypes, meanwhile selling oceans more soda, died on April 30 in Los Angeles, PepsiCo announced. He was 92.
 Pepsi hired Mr. Boyd in 1947 -- the same year the Brooklyn Dodgers introduced Jackie Robinson -- and his quieter achievement was also revolutionary. Avoiding Aunt Jemima images, he commissioned ads showing African-Americans as fun-loving middle-class consumers living the American dream. In one ad the small boy shown shopping for Pepsi with his mother was Ron Brown, who would become secretary of commerce. 
He also used pictures of distinguished blacks like Ralph Bunche, the diplomat, and of high-achieving students.
 Mr. Boyd hired some of the first black advertising models, flooded black papers with ads and added new sophistication and prominence to the ads already being published in magazines like Ebony. He created the first point-of-purchase displays aimed at minorities. 
 His program also included having celebrities like Duke Ellington and Lionel Hampton give ''shout-outs'' for Pepsi from the stage. 
 Mr. Boyd's most daring initiative echoed the hiring of Robinson by the Dodgers' president, Branch Rickey . He assembled a squad of black salesmen to visit bottlers, grocery stores, shoeshine emporia, Elks Clubs, conventions and teachers' and doctors' conferences. They were even invited to speak from church pulpits, discreetly not mentioning a certain effervescent liquid. 
 Blacks were then being lynched in the South, and even in the North, many hotels did not welcome the Pepsi salesmen. Mr. Boyd had them use Pullman sleeping cars on trains so they could eat in their compartments, not segregated dining areas. Mr. Boyd often traveled with his lieutenants, who were better qualified but paid less than their white counterparts at Pepsi. One proud salesman, a Harvard graduate, resigned after being sent to the back of a bus.
 Marketing specifically to African-Americans allowed Pepsi to expand at the expense of Coca-Cola. It already had an advantage: its nickel bottle was 12 ounces, compared with Coke's six. (''Twice as much,'' ads boasted.) The upshot was that Pepsi under Mr. Boyd pioneered what Madison Avenue a generation later called ''niche marketing.''
 Mr. Boyd sometimes used race as an explicit selling point. He disseminated a Time magazine report that Coke's chairman, Robert W. Woodruff, had raised a toast to the re-election campaign of Herman Talmadge, the staunchly segregationist Georgia governor. He attacked Coke's widely perceived reluctance to hire blacks.
 His team bolstered Pepsi sales in every area they hit with a marketing blitz, Stephanie Capparell wrote in ''The Real Pepsi Challenge'' (Free Press, 2007). After they visited Chicago, Pepsi overtook Coke there for the first time.
 ''Long before most companies came to see the potential of the black consumer, Ed put doors where previously only walls had existed,'' Donald M. Kendall, retired chairman and chief executive of PepsiCo, said in a statement after Mr. Boyd's death. 
 Edward Francis Boyd, a barber's son, was born on June 27, 1914, and raised in Riverside, Calif., where he went to junior college. He graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, and used his singing and dancing training in minor movie roles, generally playing stereotypical black roles he despised. He worked for the Screen Actors Guild, then in government housing programs. He ended up in New York, working for the National Urban League, a civil rights group known for pushing economic betterment.
 In 1944, Mr. Boyd married Edith Jones, who survives him, as do his daughter, Rebecca, of Manhattan; his sons Brandon, of Manhattan; Edward Jr., of Boulder, Colo.; and Timothy, of Chicago; and a granddaughter.
 Pepsi's president, Walter S. Mack, who both favored progressive causes and saw the vast potential of the black market, hired Mr. Boyd in 1947. Mr. Mack had started a three-member black sales force in 1940, but World War II ended it.
 Mr. Boyd's arrival meant a larger initiative, and many black newspapers published long articles about him. Still, his sales force did not expand to the dozen Mr. Mack promised until 1951. Mr. Boyd enlisted the Urban League to train new hires in the higher purposes of their mission.
 The cola wars required delicacy. Ms. Capparell said that Pepsi did not want to appear too solicitous of blacks, for fear of losing white customers. Once a rumor circulated, which Mr. Boyd's salesmen attributed to a Coke bottler, that a black worker had fallen into a Pepsi syrup tank and died.
 Even within Pepsi the road was not always smooth. In 1949, Mr. Mack told 500 bottlers at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel that he no longer wanted Pepsi to be known as a black drink, using a famously objectionable epithet. Mr. Boyd jolted upright and trudged out in what he called ''the longest walk of my life.''
 The two reconciled, but after Mr. Mack left Pepsi in 1950, corporate support for the special black sales team faded. Mr. Boyd went on to private and public jobs, including being a mission chief for CARE, the international aid agency. He later raised alpacas in Bethel, N.Y.
 ''The thing in my life I've had most to fight is bitterness,'' he said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal in 1997. ''I always realized that once I became embittered, I'd lose my objectivity and become nonfunctional and ineffective.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Boyd commissioned store displays aimed at black consumers. (Photo by Boyd Collection/'The Real Pepsi Challenge')
 Edward Boyd, a Pepsi executive in the 1940s, in an undated photo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SALES MANAGEMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (75%); POINT OF PURCHASE ADVERTISING (73%); ELECTIONS (70%); GIFTED EDUCATION (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); TRAINS (68%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (67%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); PEPSICO INC (58%); AQUANTIVE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



96 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Toyota Tundra; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: Going Where Toyota's Never Gone Before

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

 BODY:
LAST year, when Nathalie Guiraudet heard that Toyota was making the next-generation Tundra much bigger, she began to fret about her vehicular future.
 She thought the size of her 2002 Tundra was perfect for her needs. She could haul plenty of hay for her horse, Kismet. It was easy to back up (the truck, not Kismet) and the fuel economy was acceptable (both the Tundra and Kismet).
But Toyota has its own needs, and these include growth. By finally offering a pickup big and powerful enough to compete with the Ford F-150 and the Chevrolet Silverado, Toyota says it might double Tundra sales, which totaled an unimpressive 124,500 in 2006, just a fraction of what Chevrolet or Ford sold.
 While Ms. Guiraudet, who lives in Bethlehem, N.H., a town of 2,300 about 150 miles north of Boston, did not wish to interfere with Toyota's apparent plan for galactic domination, she was dismayed. 
 ''It is like every good television show I ever liked,'' she said. ''It gets taken off the air.'' 
 So she responded to Toyota's plan with a pre-emptive purchase: she bought a 2006 Tundra Access Cab.
 Now the 2007 Tundra is on sale, assembled at plants in Indiana and Texas. The new model is about 5 inches taller, 4 inches wider and 10 inches longer than its equivalent predecessors. Gone is the front-end styling so reserved it suggested a meek effort to assimilate, not cause trouble. The 2007 design could not be more confrontational if it had revolvers mounted on the fenders like one of Roy Rogers's cars.
 For Tundra, three is a recurring theme. There are three bed sizes, three cabs and three engines.
 The standard bed is 6-foot-7; the long bed is 8-foot-2; and the short bed is 5-foot-7.
 There is a Regular Cab with comfortable seating for two and a surprising amount of cargo space behind the seats. The Double Cab has just enough room for four six-foot adults to be comfortable; access to the rear is through short forward-hinged doors. 
 Last is the four-door CrewMax, imposing because the cab is so large it suggests an auditorium on wheels. Inside there is so much room it feels more like a large sport utility than a pickup. Its amazing 44.5 inches of rear legroom is almost 10 inches more than the Double Cab's, making it entirely suitable for family transportation.
 But first impressions aside, the CrewMax is not the biggest Tundra because it comes with the short bed. That makes it almost 19 inches shorter than the longest Tundra, the 21-foot Double Cab with the long bed. A 236-horsepower 4-liter V-6 is available, but only on two-wheel drive Regular Cab and Double Cab models. With a five-speed automatic, it is rated at 17 m.p.g. in town and 20 on the highway, which is less than last year. A 4.7-liter V-8 is rated at 271 horsepower at 5,400 r.p.m. and 313 pound-feet of torque at 3,400 r.p.m. It comes with a five-speed automatic. Despite the increase in the Tundra's size, the federal fuel economy estimate remains the same as last year: 15 m.p.g. city and 18 highway for a four-wheel drive. 
 New this year is a 5.7-liter V-8 rated at 381 horsepower at 5,600 r.p.m. and 401 pound-feet of torque at 3,600 r.p.m. It comes with a six-speed automatic. Demand for this engine -- more than 70 percent of new Tundras have it -- is greater than expected. 
 With four-wheel drive, this engine is rated at 14 m.p.g. city and 18 highway. I averaged 18 m.p.g. on a 239-mile Interstate cruise at 65 m.p.h. 
 The 5.7 liter is more powerful than anything offered by the pickup competition except a 403-horsepower 6.2-liter V-8 available only on the fanciest GMC Sierra, the $40,000 Denali. But none of the Toyota V-8's can shut down four cylinders to save fuel while cruising, a feature on G.M.'s 5.3-liter engine. 
 Prices on the Tundra start at $22,935 for a two-wheel drive Regular Cab. The least expensive four-wheel drive model is a Regular Cab, at $27,125. The most expensive Tundra is $42,495: that's the top-of-the-line CrewMax with four-wheel drive and the 5.7-liter V-8.
 The Tundra's base prices are high compared with the new Chevrolet Silverado's. But the Tundra offers more standard equipment on base models, including life savers like an electronic stability control to deal with skids and side curtains to provide head protection in a side-impact crash.
 In April the average selling price of a Tundra was $30,518 compared with $28,285 for the F-150; $27,849 for the Chevrolet Silverado; $26,481 for the Nissan Titan and $24,515 for the Dodge Ram 1500, said Tom Libby, senior director of industry analysis for the Power Information Network, part of J. D. Power & Associates.
 Each of the automakers was offering cash rebates during April, Mr. Libby said. The average for the Tundra was $1,315 compared with $5,502 for the Ram; $2,622 for the F-150; $1,812 for the Silverado; and $3,225 for the 2007 Titan. My test truck was a Double Cab in the midlevel SR5 trim. It had the standard bed, four-wheel drive and the 5.7-liter V-8. The base price was $31,805. Options included an upgraded stereo and power front seats, bringing the total to $34,648.
 Toyota says the design and engineering were done in the United States, so it is not surprising that the front seats are wide American-size berths. 
 The basic controls are large and easy to use, and there are plenty of storage areas. But there are hints of cheapness, like the balky mechanism on the lid of the huge storage compartment between the front seats. Another goof: On a CrewMax that I examined, the gap between the hood and fender was far bigger on one side than the other, a surprising flaw given Toyota's reputation for precision manufacturing.
 At highway speeds the Tundra is quiet unless it has the winglike tow mirrors (an option that lets a driver see around a trailer), which generate a huge amount of wind noise.
 When it comes to working for a living, Toyota says the new Tundra can tow 10,800 pounds with the 5.7-liter V-8 and rear-drive, up from 7,100 pounds last year. That 10,800 pounds is 300 pounds more than Chevrolet claims for the Silverado. However, there are no agreed-upon industry standards for towing, making comparisons tricky. The payload -- the combined weight of cargo and passengers -- ranges from 1,335 to 2,065 pounds.
 The front suspension is independent and the rear has a solid axle. Even on a bad road the standard suspension provides a comfortable ride, although it can be a bit bouncy when there is no weight in the cargo bed.
 I also tried a Tundra Double Cab with the optional off-road suspension. The ride was stiff -- almost harsh on anything but smooth pavement -- but the body motions were tightly controlled.
 The 5.7-liter V-8 and six-speed automatic are terrific, providing such vigorous acceleration it is easy to forget that Double Cab or CrewMax Tundras can weigh 5,700 pounds.
 The rack-and-pinion steering makes a good connection with the driver, and with either suspension the Tundra handles well. No pickup truck is a charmer when it comes to a challenging road. These are work trucks, after all. But the Tundra is surprisingly responsive, taking on turns far more quickly than I expected in a vehicle that is so heavy. 
 Though the brake pedal feels soft, all Tundras are well equipped for stopping, with ventilated disc brakes in the rear; the Silverado 1500 still uses drums. Four-wheel discs should provide better stopping in repeated use.
 The part-time four-wheel-drive system splits the power evenly between the front and rear wheels. Unfortunately, engaging the four-wheel drive disables the electronic stability control precisely when you might want it the most -- on a slick surface.
 It is very positive that Toyota has made electronic stability control standard on the Tundra, but not having it when four-wheel drive is engaged is ''a major flaw,'' said David Champion, the auto testing director for Consumer Reports. Toyota says stability control cannot work with its four-wheel-drive system, whose design was chosen because it is particularly rugged. But the electronic stability control of the new Silverado works with a part-time system that also splits the power evenly front and rear, and G.M. claims that it, too, is rugged.
 In 35 m.p.h. frontal crash tests conducted by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the Tundra Regular Cab did not fare as well as the new Silverado, Dodge Ram or F-150 regular cabs. The Tundra got four out of five stars, while the Chevrolet, Dodge and Ford each got the highest five-star rating.
 In a more demanding 40 m.p.h. offset crash test conducted by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, a Tundra Double Cab got a ''good'' rating, the same as the F-150 Super Cab, the Nissan Titan King Cab and Dodge Ram Quad Cab. The institute has not yet tested the new Silverado. 
 So will the Tundra hurt the domestic pickups? Sure it will. Maybe not instantly, but Toyota's success has been based on persistence and patience. The new Tundra is vastly more competitive than the previous model, and its ride and handling are superior to the aging Ford F-150 and Dodge Ram. But without a back-to-back drive, the Tundra is not spectacular enough to be declared a victor over the impressive Silverado. 
 The Tundra is already appealing to owners of the previous generation, the Power Information Network study found. In March, 43 percent of the owners of the old Tundra who traded in their trucks for a new vehicle bought the bigger Tundra.
 ''Instead of Tundra owners deserting, a lot more stayed and got the new Tundra,'' Mr. Libby, the Power Information Network analyst, said. ''It speaks, I think, to the strength of the new model.''
 On a micro level, where does all that leave Ms. Guiraudet? After a two-hour drive she was impressed with the 2007 Tundra's handling and power and said that one day she might, indeed, buy the bigger model. 
 ''I like being a little person in a big truck,'' she confided.
 But, since Ms. Guiraudet's primary requirement involves hauling hay for Kismet, perhaps the final decision will depend on fate: whether the horse or the 2006 Tundra lasts longer. INSIDE TRACK Toyota takes off the gloves. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAYBE LATER -- Nathalie Guiraudet, who owns an '06 Tundra, considers an '07. (Photo by Christopher Jensen)(pg. 1)
2007 Tundra CrewMax (pg. 12) Chart/Photos: ''In Full-Size Pickups, a Field Full of All-Stars'' 2007 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 * 2006 SALES 400,724+ (light-duty versions) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN New this year. CASH INCENTIVES $1,812 NOTABLE A winner, at a time when G.M. needs all the winners it can get. ASSESSMENT A workhorse with Kentucky Derby manners. Very possibly the best full-size pickup you can buy. Cash incentives are cash-to-customer rebates for April 2007. Data provided by the Power Information Network. * A similar vehicle is the GMC Sierra 1500. + Estimates by J. D. Power & Associates. 2007 Dodge Ram 1500 2006 SALES 199,771 LAST MAJOR REDESIGN 2002 model. CASH INCENTIVES $5,502 NOTABLE Ram was the originator of the bold big-bully look, with huge grille and dropped fenders. ASSESSMENT Not a benchmark when new, and now past due for a makeover. 2007 Ford F-150 TOTAL 2006 SALES 512,013+ LAST MAJOR REDESIGN 2004 model. CASH INCENTIVES $2,622 NOTABLE After many years, it's still America's favorite vehicle. ASSESSMENT State of the art when introduced, but now badly in need of an update. 2008 Nissan Titan 2006 SALES 72,192 (previous model) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN Updated, but not all new, for 2008. CASH INCENTIVES $3,225 (on 2007 models) NOTABLE Previous Titan had excellent handling and powertrain, but quality problems. ASSESSMENT The freshened '08 should be strong
 Nissan says quality is improving. 2007 Toyota Tundra 2006 SALES 124,508 (previous model) LAST MAJOR REDESIGN New this year. CASH INCENTIVES $1,315 NOTABLE The 5.7-liter V-8 is great, providing brute force without being brutish. ASSESSMENT Just what the domestic trucks need: a serious competitor, at last, from Toyota. (pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%) Automobiles; Reviews 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%)

PERSON: Christopher Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



97 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Dwindling Funds Jeopardize Immigrant Center

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
A Farmingdale center that has provided services and programs for Hispanic immigrants since 2003 is in danger of closing because it is running out of money.
 La Casa Comunal, at 150 South Front Street, will be forced to shut its doors by the end of June unless it comes up with more money, said Janet Liotta, the president of Farmingdale Citizens for Viable Solutions, an organization that serves as a bridge between the community and day laborers and operates La Casa Comunal. The center needs $45,000 a year to survive, she said.
Ms. Liotta said Hispanics make up 10 percent of the population of about 9,000 in the Village of Farmingdale. La Casa Comunal, which is Spanish for ''community house,'' offers English classes, cultural competency workshops and computer lessons, as well as used clothing, food and bicycles for the day laborers and their families. 
 Supported initially by a grant from Catholic Health Services, La Casa Comunal has survived through grants from the Catholic Campaign for Human Development and donations from the community. But financing has dwindled, and a recent gift of $2,800 from a student group at Northport High School is the only cash remaining, Ms. Liotta said.
 She said that the village had done everything possible to get rid of the immigrants. ''They have had every opportunity to help us and have shut every door,'' Ms. Liotta said.
 David L. Mejias, the Nassau County legislator whose district includes Farmingdale, said that many immigrants who depended on the services of La Casa Comunal were here legally and had visas or work permits.
 ''Our job as elected officials is to fight for people who can't always fight for themselves,'' he said. ''The village has had an opportunity to apply for a county redevelopment block grant targeted at the underserved population, but no application has been filed.'' 
 David Smollett, the village administrator, called the accusations ''totally unfounded and untrue.'' He said that redevelopment grants the village had received were not meant to be used for any individual organization. ''We have to decide how to best use the limited funds to help all of the 9,000 residents in the village,'' he said. 
 For now, La Casa Comunal has packed its schedule with as many programs as possible. Its last program, on bicycle safety, is scheduled for May 17. Police Commissioner Says It's Time to Leave 
 James H. Lawrence has unexpectedly announced plans to retire at the end of June as Nassau County's police commissioner. He told County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi on April 25 of his intention to leave after almost five years on the job. 
 ''I'm at a crossroads in life and knew that it was the right time to dedicate myself to my family,'' Mr. Lawrence, 61, said. ''Still serving on several boards, I don't plan to drop out completely, but to devote the next few months to family graduations and travel with my wife.''
 Mr. Suozzi said he would begin a search for a new commissioner in the next month but had no timetable for an appointment. No names for a successor were mentioned publicly.
 Mr. Lawrence came to Nassau County from the New York Police Department in 2002. During his tenure, the county's crime rate dropped to the lowest in its history, Mr. Suozzi said.
 Mr. Lawrence said that after having come on board during a budget crisis, focusing on organizing the department to deliver the best possible service with a smaller staff had been one of his major accomplishments.
 Mr. Suozzi said that despite the fiscal problems, Mr. Lawrence ''has managed to modernize many aspects of the department's operations.'' The county executive cited a crime-statistics program whose aim was to increase accountability, the installation of global positioning systems in police vehicles, the opening of a new police academy and the upgrading of police communications.
 Mr. Lawrence has spent more than 30 years in law enforcement. After serving in the Army, he joined the New York Police Department in 1970. Later, as the department's chief of personnel, he was responsible for managing human resources for 55,000 employees. New Law Penalizes Adults Who Give Alcohol to Youths 
 A new law in Amityville makes it illegal for adults to serve alcohol in their home to anyone under 21 who is not a relative. After a unanimous vote by the village board, the law went into effect last month, with maximum penalties of 15 days in jail and a $250 fine.
 Mayor Peter T. Imbert said the growing problem of under-age drinking had been the motivation for the law. ''It's not just in this village, but all over where we have seen episodes of violence and car accidents that result from under-age drinking,'' he said. 
 Mr. Imbert said he expected the violations to be at large gatherings like graduation parties and outdoor summer parties, where a neighbor would notify the police.
 ''We're not going to be driving around with binoculars looking in windows,'' he said. ''But there are parents we know of who are irresponsible on a regular basis, and we will be watching them.''
 The law in Amityville was modeled on one passed last August in Long Beach. Two upstate municipalities -- Gloversville and Carmel -- also have under-age drinking laws.
 Edwin L. Eaton, the Long Beach city manager, said that two summonses had been issued since the law went into effect. One person pleaded guilty and was fined $150; the second case will be heard in City Court on July 2.
 ''At first I was a little concerned about the misuse of the law, but it appeared to be the right thing to do,'' Mr. Eaton said. ''We all felt that it wouldn't be used a lot, but it would let parents and kids know that we take this issue seriously.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: ON THE BRINK -- La Casa Comunal, a Hispanic center in Farmingdale that provides English classes, cultural workshops, computer lessons and used clothing, food and bicycles for day laborers and their families, says that it needs $45,000 a year to survive but is down to its last $2,800. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); FAMILY (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); CYCLING (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%) Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans; Police; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Alcoholic Beverages; Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Children and Youth

ORGANIZATION: CAMPAIGN FOR HUMAN DEVELOPMENT (55%) La Casa Comunal (Orgn)

PERSON: James H (Comr) Lawrence; Linda Saslow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Farmingdale (NY); Nassau County (NY); Amityville (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



98 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; TRANSPORTATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Transit Chief's To-Do List: No. 1, New Hudson Tunnel

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
WHEN Richard R. Sarles was growing up in Nutley in the 1950s, his family did not own a car, so they used the bus. Public transportation took them everywhere, from movie theaters and grocery stores to department stores in Newark. 
 ''The buses were a great way to travel,'' Mr. Sarles said. 
 He now owns a car, but the buses, trains and light rails of the state are on Mr. Sarles's mind much of the time as he settles into his new job as executive director of New Jersey Transit, the largest statewide public transportation agency in the country. 
 Mr. Sarles, 62, has spent three decades working on transportation issues. He has spent the past five years at New Jersey Transit, working as the assistant executive director for capital programs and planning before being tapped in early April to replace George D. Warrington as the head of the agency. 
 During an interview in a conference room overlooking Pennsylvania Station here, Mr. Sarles said he understands that with such a high-profile job come new pressures and criticisms. Although he said he had been greeted only with smiles from passengers and conductors so far -- he now commutes by train from Philadelphia -- Mr. Sarles said he would most likely hear some gripes when fare increases of nearly 10 percent, introduced by his predecessor, take effect in June. 
 Because complaints are part of the business, Mr. Sarles said, the agency will continue to focus on customer service.
 ''We want to strive to get better at every aspect,'' he said. ''With responsibility comes accountability.'' 
 Before joining New Jersey Transit, Mr. Sarles spent 20 years at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in various roles, including construction, project planning and project management. From 1996 until 2002, he served as a vice president at Amtrak, heading the Northeast Corridor High-Speed Rail Program, between New York and Boston, and managing capital projects across the country. With New Jersey Transit he oversaw creation and expansion of light-rail service in South Jersey, Newark and Hudson County.
 Former Gov. Jim Florio, who headed the selection committee, said it unanimously chose Mr. Sarles over 40 other candidates because ''he is very mature, with a good background, particularly in operations.'' 
 ''I think everyone is satisfied with the way New Jersey Transit is running,'' Mr. Florio said. ''Having someone continuing the high performance is something we were all looking for. Sarles was a standout.'' 
 Though Mr. Sarles has been on the job for only about a month, he said he had a good idea what the top priorities would be on his watch. First is the construction of another passenger-rail tunnel under the Hudson River, which has the support of officials in New Jersey and New York City. The tunnel, which carries a price tag of up to $7.5 billion, could be completed by 2016 if construction begins on time in 2009. 
 ''The project is vital to the region,'' Mr. Sarles said. ''It will help to grow the economy.''
 He said he also wants New Jersey Transit to do a complete audit of its bus routes -- something that has not been done in nearly 30 years -- in hopes of finding ways to lure new customers to buses and to accommodate existing customers better. 
 Also on Mr. Sarles's to-do list are creating an express bus line along Route 1 and expansion into Bergen County and the southern part of the state. He said he also wants to increase awareness of the agency's park-and-ride locations, to ''highlight transit as an attractive alternative to congested roadways.'' 
 In the end, Mr. Sarles said his office would continue to seek out commuters' opinions and ideas about service, equipment and what the agency can do better. 
 ''We want public transit to be the preferred choice for the commuters,'' he said. ''We don't want to force them out of their automobiles; we want to attract them out of their automobiles.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: LISTENING TO RIDERS -- Richard R. Sarles, the head of New Jersey Transit. (Photo by Jim Cummins for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RETAILERS (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (64%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (61%) Railroads; Bridges and Tunnels

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Transit

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: Richard R Sarles; John Holl

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey; Hudson River

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



99 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Local Forecast: Bad

BYLINE: By George R. Hendrey and Stephen Pekar. 
George R. Hendrey is a professor and Stephen Pekar is an assistant professor at the Queens College School of Earth and Environmental Science.

 BODY:
THE recent heavy storms that left downtown Manville, N.J., under 10 feet of water; filled the basements of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; and flooded rivers and downed power lines in Connecticut may have provided a glimpse of our future. Climate change is accelerating, and the prognosis for the region is alarming, as it is for the rest of the world. No matter how effectively we begin to curb our greenhouse-gas emissions now, we are destined to see significant climate changes because these gases remain in the atmosphere for a long time. We cannot delay planning for the environmental and human calamities that lie ahead. 
 All over the world, according to the 2007 scientific report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, ''it is very likely that hot extremes, heat waves and heavy precipitation events will continue to become more frequent.'' But we need look no further than our own backyard to find evidence of warming. Since 1950, average summer temperatures in New York City have increased by seven-tenths of a degree per decade, but for the last 20 years, by more than two degrees per decade. 
By the middle of this century, with both temperature and humidity rising, the regional climate will resemble that of today's Maryland, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists. And by 2100, if greenhouse-gas emissions continue to increase at the present rate, New York's heat index could resemble that of northern Georgia, with 60 or more days above 90 degrees and 25 days at over 100 (we now average just two days over 100 a year). 
 Average sea temperature off our coast has risen by more than two degrees since 1979, and by 2100 it will be four to eight degrees higher. These rising water temperatures will likely lead to stronger and more damaging storms. In 1954, when Hurricane Carol passed over Long Island and hit Connecticut, the tidal surge at New London was 10 feet high. Many scientists feel it is only a matter of time until a truly devastating hurricane makes a direct hit on New York, Connecticut and New Jersey.
 Nicholas K. Coch, a hurricane expert at Queens College, predicts that a Category 3 hurricane (the strength of Hurricane Katrina when it hit Louisiana) making landfall just west of the Hudson River Estuary would result in a greatly amplified storm surge, owing to the piling up of coastal waters in the almost right angle formed by the New Jersey and Long Island shores. Surge levels would rise to 20 feet at the Statue of Liberty and more than 26 feet in Jamaica Bay. This would cause extensive flooding of the New Jersey shore, Staten Island and Lower Manhattan, the Rockaways and Coney Island, southern Brooklyn, much of Queens, part of Long Island City and Astoria, and Flushing Meadows-Corona Park and continue on to the Westchester shore.
 Rising sea levels will only intensify such storm surges. In the past 100 years, while the global sea level has risen by four to eight inches, water levels in New York Harbor have risen by about a foot, and they are expected to rise five more inches by 2030. Without any controls on greenhouse-gas emissions, the sea level could rise as much as three and a half feet by 2080, Columbia University scientists estimate.
 These predictions and actual experience are already depressing property values in low-lying areas and making it more difficult for some homeowners in flood-prone areas to get insurance. As climate change progresses, the economic impact will only increase. 
 Facing up to climate-driven perils will require comprehensive regional planning. We might consider, for example, ceasing government payments for storm damage to buildings in flood zones. This would gradually reduce and ultimately eliminate housing from the shoreline in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. If we were to replace the housing with restored wetlands and woodland parks at the water's edge, it would help stabilize the coastline. New sea walls in Lower Manhattan might help protect the city from the high waves created by future hurricanes.
 We don't presume to know all of the precautions that will be required, nor their priority and timing, and no one else knows either. What is needed is an international institute, centered in New York, where leaders of the world's great cities along with urban planners, environmental scientists, economists and various other experts can put their knowledge together to prepare for future climate change. We must begin to imagine what may happen, and start investing now, to keep the region safe for this century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RIVERS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); CITIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); OCEANS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Floods

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%)

PERSON: George R (Prof) Hendrey; Stephen Pekar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



100 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Local Forecast: Bad

BYLINE: By George R. Hendrey and Stephen Pekar. 
George R. Hendrey is a professor and Stephen Pekar is an assistant professor at the Queens College School of Earth and Environmental Science.

 BODY:
THE recent heavy storms that left downtown Manville, N.J., under 10 feet of water; filled the basements of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; and flooded rivers and downed power lines in Connecticut may have provided a glimpse of our future. Climate change is accelerating, and the prognosis for the region is alarming, as it is for the rest of the world. No matter how effectively we begin to curb our greenhouse-gas emissions now, we are destined to see significant climate changes because these gases remain in the atmosphere for a long time. We cannot delay planning for the environmental and human calamities that lie ahead. 
 All over the world, according to the 2007 scientific report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, ''it is very likely that hot extremes, heat waves and heavy precipitation events will continue to become more frequent.'' But we need look no further than our own backyard to find evidence of warming. Since 1950, average summer temperatures in New York City have increased by seven-tenths of a degree per decade, but for the last 20 years, by more than two degrees per decade. 
By the middle of this century, with both temperature and humidity rising, the regional climate will resemble that of today's Maryland, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists. And by 2100, if greenhouse-gas emissions continue to increase at the present rate, New York's heat index could resemble that of northern Georgia, with 60 or more days above 90 degrees and 25 days at over 100 (we now average just two days over 100 a year). 
 Average sea temperature off our coast has risen by more than two degrees since 1979, and by 2100 it will be four to eight degrees higher. These rising water temperatures will likely lead to stronger and more damaging storms. In 1954, when Hurricane Carol passed over Long Island and hit Connecticut, the tidal surge at New London was 10 feet high. Many scientists feel it is only a matter of time until a truly devastating hurricane makes a direct hit on New York, Connecticut and New Jersey.
 Nicholas K. Coch, a hurricane expert at Queens College, predicts that a Category 3 hurricane (the strength of Hurricane Katrina when it hit Louisiana) making landfall just west of the Hudson River Estuary would result in a greatly amplified storm surge, owing to the piling up of coastal waters in the almost right angle formed by the New Jersey and Long Island shores. Surge levels would rise to 20 feet at the Statue of Liberty and more than 26 feet in Jamaica Bay. This would cause extensive flooding of the New Jersey shore, Staten Island and Lower Manhattan, the Rockaways and Coney Island, southern Brooklyn, much of Queens, part of Long Island City and Astoria, and Flushing Meadows-Corona Park and continue on to the Westchester shore.
 Rising sea levels will only intensify such storm surges. In the past 100 years, while the global sea level has risen by four to eight inches, water levels in New York Harbor have risen by about a foot, and they are expected to rise five more inches by 2030. Without any controls on greenhouse-gas emissions, the sea level could rise as much as three and a half feet by 2080, Columbia University scientists estimate.
 These predictions and actual experience are already depressing property values in low-lying areas and making it more difficult for some homeowners in flood-prone areas to get insurance. As climate change progresses, the economic impact will only increase. 
 Facing up to climate-driven perils will require comprehensive regional planning. We might consider, for example, ceasing government payments for storm damage to buildings in flood zones. This would gradually reduce and ultimately eliminate housing from the shoreline in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. If we were to replace the housing with restored wetlands and woodland parks at the water's edge, it would help stabilize the coastline. New sea walls in Lower Manhattan might help protect the city from the high waves created by future hurricanes.
 We don't presume to know all of the precautions that will be required, nor their priority and timing, and no one else knows either. What is needed is an international institute, centered in New York, where leaders of the world's great cities along with urban planners, environmental scientists, economists and various other experts can put their knowledge together to prepare for future climate change. We must begin to imagine what may happen, and start investing now, to keep the region safe for this century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RIVERS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); CITIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); OCEANS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Floods

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%)

PERSON: George R (Prof) Hendrey; Stephen Pekar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



101 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Does It Even Matter if the U.S. Has a Cold?

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
FOR the last several decades, the United States has functioned as the main engine of growth in a global economy that has been moving with synchronicity.
 ''We're going through the longest stretch of concerted growth in decades,'' said Lakshman Achuthan, managing director at the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York.
So you might think that a sharp slowdown in growth in the United States -- the domestic economy grew at a measly 1.3 percent annual clip in the first quarter this year, less than half the 2006 rate -- would mean trouble for the rest of the global economy. Right? 
 Wrong.
 As the domestic growth rate has declined sharply in recent quarters, the rest of the world is growing rapidly. India is blowing the door off its hinges. China's economy is expanding at a double-digit pace.
 In the United States, the Federal Reserve has held rates steady since last June, and its next move will most likely be a rate reduction to stimulate growth. The European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, meanwhile, have been raising rates -- lest their once-suffering economies overheat and spawn inflation.
 ''The U.S. slump in the first quarter didn't pull down growth in Europe or Asia,'' said Brad Setser, senior economist at Roubini Global Economics. 
 The seemingly countervailing trends -- deceleration in America, full speed ahead abroad -- have led some economists to wonder whether the United States and the rest of the global economy are going their separate ways. Some even suggest -- shudder -- that changes in the global economy have made the United States a less-central player.
 ''Four or five years ago, there was an important switch in the global economy,'' said Stephen King, an economist based in London for HSBC. ''Since then, other parts of the world have really grabbed the growth baton from the U.S.'' 
 Until relatively recently, when the United States sneezed, the world caught a nasty cold. Today, Mr. King says, the United States has sneezed, but the world has gone shopping. 
 Mr. King notes that emerging markets like China, India, Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East are injecting life into the European and Japanese economies through their enormous purchases of capital goods -- all those construction cranes in Dubai, bullet trains in China, oil rigs in Russia. ''Emerging markets' share of global capital spending has risen from 20 percent in the late 1990s to about 37 percent today,'' he said.
 Western Europe is benefiting from rising trade with Eastern Europe, Russia, Asia and the Middle East. As a result, the euro zone, America's largest trading partner, is simply not as reliant on the United States as it used to be, Mr. Setser said. ''Europe is clearly no longer growing on the back of U.S. domestic demand growth,'' he said. As other economies increasingly trade with one another, the United States plays a diminished role.
 But the consensus for decoupling is hardly complete. The United States is still setting the pace, Mr. Achuthan said: ''We led the world up, and the rest of the world revved up after us. And areas like Europe in particular will be slowing in the wake of our slowdown last year.'' 
 The cars of the global economic train are still tethered tightly together, in his view. ''It's less of a decoupling'' he said, ''and more like the jerking you get in a train when the first car stops, and then the other ones stop after a bit of a lag.'' 
 David Rosenberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch, said he believes that the apparent divergence in the world's big economies has more to do with the nature of the growth slowdown in the United States, which has stemmed not from a decline in consumption, but from a decline in investment -- specifically in housing.
 ''Almost 100 percent of the U.S. slowdown has been due to the housing industry,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. And housing is an intensely local and national industry -- from the real estate broker to the mortgage lender, from Home Depot to interior decorators. ''Unless you run a sawmill in Canada, international trade isn't directly affected by the decline in U.S. housing,'' Mr. Rosenberg said.
 Martin N. Baily, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, says he thinks that it's a good thing for the United States if it's no longer the leader. ''We have a huge imbalance in our trade, and we need to be a little less of an engine of growth for the rest of the world, and let Europe and Japan, and hopefully China, eventually, pick up the slack,'' he said. ''And right now it seems like they're doing so.''
 But Mr. Baily added that we shouldn't be so quick to believe that the world economy is significantly more independent of the United States than it was in the past. ''I don't think there's been a complete decoupling,'' he said. ''A U.S. recession would dramatically slow growth in China and India.''
 THE real test of the decoupling thesis, Mr. Rosenberg said, will come if consumer spending starts slowing down. Consumer spending in the United States, which is still on the rise, accounts for an astonishing 20 percent of the global economy, he said. ''I find it hard to believe,'' he said, ''that the rest of the world is going to be immune to a consumer sector that's primarily responsible for pulling in nearly $2 trillion of the world's output.'' 
 Consumer spending hasn't fallen for a single quarter since the fourth quarter of 1991. And while there are factors affecting domestic consumer spending -- higher interest rates, lower housing prices, higher gas prices -- the indefatigable American spenders show few signs of letting up. 
 ''Before we can say there's a decoupling, we have to wait for a sneeze,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. ''All we've had is a runny
 nose.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: When it comes to spending on capital goods, construction sites in Dubai are but one sign of emerging markets' new power. (Photo by Karim Sahib/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (57%) United States Economy; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); WESTERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



102 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 2824 words

HEADLINE: A Longer, Better Life

BYLINE: By Sara Davidson

 BODY:
Participants: Lenny GUARENTE, PH.D.: Novartis professor of biology at M.I.T. and author of ''Ageless Quest: One Scientist's Search for Genes That Prolong Youth.''; Robert N. BUTLER, M.D.: Founding director of the National Institute on Aging, a founder of the Alzheimer's Disease Association and winner of a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for ''Why Survive? Being Old in America.'' He heads the International Longevity Center.; SARA DAVIDSON: Author, most recently, of ''Leap! What Will We Do With the Rest of Our Lives?''
Dr. GUARENTE, scientists like J. Craig Venter, one of the first to map the human genome, feel that increasing life span should not be the goal of science. Why are you attempting to prolong life? 
 LENNY GUARENTE: The research that I'm involved in is not about extending life after people are infirm. I don't think of life span as the gold standard. The gold standard is health span. All the indicators from the laboratory are that the genes we're studying and the kinds of drugs we would be developing would extend health span. If you can extend health span, and you also happen to extend life span, so be it. That's a side benefit. 
 Have you identified genes that can extend health and life span? 
 GUARENTE: The genes we study counteract aging. First we studied yeast cells, and it took us eight years to identify a gene called SIR2, which protects the cells from damage during the aging process. Then we did a similar experiment in a more complex critter, the roundworm, and what was remarkable is, we identified the same gene. That told us that this type of gene is performing an antiaging function broadly in nature.
 Do humans have this gene?
 GUARENTE: There's one gene in our genome, SIRT1, that would be a dead ringer for this one -- the technical term is ortholog -- but we also have six other genes that have a related sequence to this. They're called sirtuins, and they're all going to play a role, but I think the dead ringer is undoubtedly the most important based on experiments that have been done. 
 You assert a fairly radical concept: that these longevity genes have the power to keep the body supercharged and maintaining its natural repair activities regardless of age. Does that mean we could live, what, another 20, 30 years? Fifty? 
 GUARENTE: We think the sirtuin genes are there to recognize lack of food or other stressful situations and to spring into action to create a physiology that will promote longevity. The evolutionary value is that in times of stress -- food scarcity, for example -- this gene would slow down the aging process and keep you alive longer, so that when times are better, you could reproduce. 
 But how long would the gene work? Maybe it only operates temporarily?
 GUARENTE: We can gauge this by asking what happens in rodents on a calorie-restricted diet, which mimics food scarcity and activates the SIR2 gene. Do they live forever? No. They live up to 50 percent longer. So in a perfect world, one would hope that we could live 50 percent longer than the current expected life span.
 In our lifetimes, could this happen?
 GUARENTE: I think one can expect perhaps another decade of robust health. 
 ROBERT BUTLER: A lot of it comes down to our willingness in this country to make an investment in the biology of aging. Historically, we've devoted our energies and money to studying one disease at a time. At the same time, we have neglected targeting the underlying risk factor of aging.
 Are you saying that aging itself leads to disease?
 BUTLER: Why does 50 percent of all cancer occur after 65? Why does 80 percent occur after age 50? As we age, there are changes at the cellular molecular level that predispose us to disease and disability. But so far, no government, no foundation, no corporation anywhere in the world has fully embraced the importance of longevity science. If we could target aging, that would have an impact on diseases.
 What do you mean ''target'' aging?
 GUARENTE: Slow down aging in the same way that calorie restriction slows down aging. Bob makes an important point about diseases and aging. I believe that the two are intertwined and experimentally this has been demonstrated by using modern strains of mice that have been genetically altered to get specific diseases -- for example, neurodegenerative diseases or cancer, or cardiovascular disease or diabetes -- and to see whether calorie restriction will either postpone or prevent these diseases. The general finding is that calorie restriction forestalls many of these diseases. The hypothesis is that if one could activate the sirtuin genes -- not by a calorie-restricted diet but pharmacologically -- then this would have an impact on the diseases of aging. 
 How close are we to such a drug being available?
 GUARENTE: Ten, maybe 15 years. I think the drugs that aim at sirtuins, for example, will be tested initially for a particular disease, say, diabetes. And it will turn out that the drugs have broader benefits than one initially imagined. 
 What about resveratrol? There has been a lot of publicity about this substance that's found in red wine. Does it do the same thing as calorie restriction?
 GUARENTE: It's a natural product, made by plants, and recently one of my former postdoctoral students, David Sinclair, found that resveratrol can regulate the activity of SIRT1. 
 Do you take resveratrol?
 GUARENTE: No, partly because neutraceuticals are not regulated by the F.D.A. If I was sure of the quality control, I would consider it, but I'm still not certain I would do it, because you may have to take a lot -- one or two grams a day.
 What intrigues me is that I read that if fruit flies are fed resveratrol, they live longer and can eat all they want. 
 GUARENTE: More strikingly, there were two reports published last fall studying resveratrol in mice. In a study, researchers fed mice a high-fat diet, and the mice lived a somewhat shortened life span because of the high-fat diet. Another group of mice were administered resveratrol along with the high-fat diet, and a lot of those bad effects were reversed, and they lived longer than the fat mice not fed resveratrol. So I think that's a good start. 
 But aren't you worried that people who like to eat a lot of fat and sugar will think, if I just take resveratrol, I can eat anything?
 GUARENTE: You could imagine that some people would consider a compound like this as a license to go wild, but there's already an enormous problem with our diet, and we have to do something about it.
 BUTLER: Several of us recently wrote an article in The New England Journal of Medicine in which we predicted, with great pain, that as things are now proceeding with regard to Type 2 diabetes in 10-year-old children, we may soon have a situation in which our children live less long than their parents. We need to educate kids early about the importance of nutrition.
 There are substances on the market now that claim to prolong life -- and people are spending billions on them. What's the distinction between these products and the drugs that you're hoping to develop?
 GUARENTE: Well, that's really simple. Any product on the market that claims to extend life -- don't believe it.
 BUTLER: That's true. We don't yet have the means to delay, stop or reverse aging. And in fact, we don't even have the means to evaluate or measure whether a substance prolongs life. We have yet to create biomarkers that would measure, short of death, actual changes in the body that reflect aging. 
 Let's turn to what many of us fear most about growing older -- losing our minds. Dr. BUTLER, you led a panel last year on the state of Alzheimer's research that warned that America doesn't recognize Alzheimer's as a health crisis. Why is it a crisis?
 BUTLER: It afflicts about four and a half million people now. As baby boomers grow older and live longer, there could be 14 million afflicted -- about triple what it is now -- by 2030 if we don't find a means of prevention and treatment.
 Why can't we make it a national priority to find a treatment for Alzheimer's the way we once did with polio and AIDS?
 BUTLER: We've had a history of understanding infectious diseases and vaccines since Pasteur. The problem is, the central nervous system is very complex. We don't know much about neurological diseases and how to treat them.
 GUARENTE: I would chime in that my perspective is that there has been progress in understanding the key components involved in the disease -- the genes and proteins. Genes compose the blueprint for making proteins, and in the case of Alzheimer's, one of these proteins goes awry and precipitates the disease. 
 Are you saying Alzheimer's is genetically determined?
 BUTLER: It's genetically based, but genes have to express themselves in the environment.
 Has there been any progress in early detection?
 BUTLER: Yes, through what's called positron emission tomography, the PET scan, a group in Pittsburgh has found ways of tagging agents in the brain that make it possible to make early identification of amyloid, which is part of the plaque that builds up with Alzheimer's. 
 How feasible is it to do this testing widely?
 BUTLER: It's expensive, and I don't think it's a good idea for the public at large because we don't have a treatment. But for research, it's fantastic because the earlier that we can make the identification, the more we can introduce potential interventions, like drugs being developed that would prevent or dissolve the accumulation of amyloid. 
 GUARENTE: I would just point out that Alzheimer's would be in the group of diseases that has aging as an underlying risk factor, so being able to manipulate the aging process, I think, would also have implications for Alzheimer's. 
 BUTLER: For me, one of the most disturbing experiences is putting a fully incapacitated Alzheimer's patient in front of a mirror and asking him who he is, and he doesn't know. It's just shocking to see that happen to human beings -- they don't even recognize themselves. Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Prize winner who wrote ''Night,'' said we are our memories. Which I think is a beautiful statement of the significance of memory, because when you're older, you also tend to review your life and to try to come to terms with it, and if you have Alzheimer's, you're denied that opportunity.
 Do we know why it hits women more than men?
 BUTLER: There are some who think that being female is a risk factor, but it may simply be that there are more women that live longer than men. As you know, there are about 250 women for every 100 men over 85, which is when Alzheimer's begins to take the greatest hit. 
 Is dementia in the same family as Alzheimer's or is it different? For example, my mother, who is 93, is in perfect physical shape, but she has no short-term memory. She does not seem to have Alzheimer's because she knows who we are, and she can go over every line of her tax return, but five minutes later she won't remember she saw it.
 BUTLER: There are many types of dementia, which result from different causes. The most common is Alzheimer's, which is characterized by neurofibrillary tangles -- misshaped proteins -- and plaques. The second most common is multi-infarct dementia, which is the result of small, repeated strokes. Scientists who are studying Alzheimer's have differentiated three categories for research purposes. The first is what's called age-associated memory impairment. These are the kinds of things ordinary people are going through: forgetfulness, not remembering why you've walked into a room or where you put the paper you were just holding in your hand. If you're in this category, we have no data that suggest you're necessarily on your way to Alzheimer's.
 The second category is mild cognitive impairment -- getting confused on the street, not remembering you're supposed to have coins when you get on a bus. At that point, the conversion rate to the third -- full-blown Alzheimer's -- sadly, is very high. After three years, about half the people will not be able to take care of themselves, but the conversion is not total. Some people plateau and seem to go on for a long time. 
 How do you know when to be concerned?
 BUTLER: One of the rules we use as clinicians is: if you forget your keys, that's not so terrible, but if you forget what a key is for, that becomes serious.
 Where do you think the breakthroughs will come from in understanding diseases of the brain? 
 GUARENTE: We are looking at genes, because from our perspective everything starts with genetics. Genetics is a key that opens a door that you can walk through, and now you can see: here's what we should be studying. Antiaging genes like sirtuins carry the blueprint for proteins that might be able to ameliorate the cellular damage that accumulates with aging, like oxidation of molecules in cells. The next step, which is a difficult one, would be to develop drugs that stimulate the sirtuins, bolstering the repair of damage in cells. But I'm optimistic that can be achieved. 
 There's a lot of advice given about how to maintain a healthy body, but do we know how to maintain a healthy brain and prevent dementia? 
 BUTLER: I'm afraid there's a lot of romance in the literature suggesting that we can stop Alzheimer's disease by cognitive exercises. 
 Like doing crossword puzzles? My mother has done them all her life, but she lost her memory anyway.
 BUTLER: Just as exercise keeps the body in optimal shape, exercise -- both physical and mental -- can keep the brain in optimal shape in terms of thinking clearly, making judgments and solving problems. But having a healthy body doesn't prevent you from getting cancer. Similarly, maintaining a healthy brain doesn't prevent you from having memory loss or getting Alzheimer's. 
 GUARENTE: My feeling is slightly different. I think we can tip the odds a little bit by our lifestyles and by avoiding things that we know are bad, like smoking, like trans fats, like excess body fat. Is it a prevention? Absolutely not, but we're stacking the odds a little bit away from disease.
 Let's talk for a minute philosophically. What kind of society will we have if everybody is living to 100, and the whole culture skews older?
 BUTLER: You could have asked that same question in 1900, when the average life expectancy was 47. Someone might have said, what are we going to do when we have all these 55- and 60-year-olds around? Society adjusts. People think we can't afford older people because of Social Security and Medicare. But there's a growing body of knowledge by hard-nosed economists of all ideological persuasions -- University of Chicago, Yale, Harvard, the RAND Corporation -- that as societies become more long-living and healthier, that actually creates greater wealth. Bloom and Canning up at Harvard have shown that if you identify nations that have a five-year difference in life expectancy, the one that has a greater life expectancy also has greater wealth. Older people create silver markets, so that one person's cost, like health costs, is another person's income, asset or job. 
 What about the institution of marriage? If you're going to live to 100 and get married at 22 or 25. ...
 BUTLER: Oh, you are evil.
 Are you still going to vow ''till death do us part''?
 BUTLER: There's a demographer, Peter Uhlenberg, who said that divorce is a substitute for death, because in the old days there was enough death, unfortunately, particularly of women in childbirth, that the men would remarry. Someone even calculated that marriage now lasts about as long as it did then, but it was ended then by death rather than by divorce. So maybe you're onto something. 
 Are you concerned that extending life span could double the number of people alive and overwhelm the planet's resources?
 GUARENTE: I don't believe that mitigating the diseases of aging will lead to overpopulation, because in most of the developed world birthrates are low or declining.
 BUTLER: They're falling in the developing world as well. There's a distinction between advancing life expectancy and breaking the genetic barrier. Every species has a predetermined genetic life span. Certain fish live about a year. Some turtles live 200 years. Humans have about 110, 120 years at the outside of their genetic life span. We're talking about increasing healthy years within that life span. 
 33% suffer from hypertension.
 32% have lower back pain. 
 20% have elevated blood pressure.
 22% have knee pain. 
 21% have neck pain. 
 12% have shoulder pain.
 11% have finger pain. Of American men ages 45-54:
 30% suffer from hypertension.
 27% have lower back pain.
 20% have elevated blood pressure.
 19% have knee pain.15% have neck pain.
 13% have shoulder pain.
 7% have finger pain. 
 In 2004, 12.3% of people 45-54 and 17.9% of people 55-64 said they were in poor or only fair health. (prop stylist: Ana Monroe) 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Horacio Salinas) Graph: Of American women ages 45-54:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELDER HEALTH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); AGING (90%); WRITERS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); GENOMICS (77%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (60%) Medicine and Health; Genetics and Heredity; Longevity; Alzheimer's Disease; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Medicine and Health; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (84%) National Institute on Aging; International Longevity Center-Usa

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (58%); NOVN (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: Sara Davidson; Leonard P (Dr) Guarente; Robert N (Dr) Butler

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



103 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Claire Israel, Oren Silverstein

 BODY:
Claire Deborah Israel and Oren Benjamin Silverstein were married last evening at Cupid's Wedding Chapel in Las Vegas. The Rev. John Langford, a Pentecostal minister, officiated. The couple plan to have a Jewish service on June 9 at Nana restaurant in Brooklyn. Rabbi Dan Bromstein is to officiate. 
 The bride, 38, is keeping her name. She is the director of digital content and business development at Simon & Schuster in Manhattan. She graduated from Emerson College in Boston. She is the daughter of Sheila S. Israel and Martin H. Israel of Stamford, Conn.
The bridegroom, 37, is a market development executive for Getty Images in Manhattan. He graduated from Montclair State College. He is the son of Lily L. Silverstein and Bernard Silverstein of Wyckoff, N.J.
 The bride's first marriage ended in divorce.
 When the couple met online in April 2005, Ms. Israel was as concerned about where Mr. Silverstein lived (New Jersey) as he was about who she lived with (her two cats).
 Ms. Israel, who lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn, said she thought ''Jersey guys were geographically undesirable.''
 Mr. Silverstein said he did not want a relationship with ''a woman who treated her cats like children.'' 
 Despite their reservations, the couple spent a week bonding through e-mail over a love of obscure indie rock bands, pop-culture ephemera and Howard Stern.
 They were to meet the next week, but on the morning of that planned first date, Mr. Silverstein left a message on her answering machine saying his apartment building had caught fire, rendering it unlivable. He was unemployed at that time and had to move in with his parents. 
 ''It's not the greatest first impression to tell your date that you're in your 30s, unemployed and back living with Mom and Dad in New Jersey,'' he said. ''I didn't look good on paper.'' 
 Still, they met in Manhattan for dinner a few days later.
 ''I usually go for just drinks on first Internet dates,'' Ms. Israel said. ''But I went for a full meal because I felt bad for this guy. His house just burned down.''
 By their second date, Ms. Israel said she had learned that though he had been uprooted by the fire, Mr. Silverstein was ''the most settled person I had ever met.''
 Ms. Israel, who had decided long before she met Mr. Silverstein that she would adopt a child, appreciated the sense of stability he was bringing to her life. On Dec. 24, 2005, Ms. Israel's 93-year-old grandmother, Sophie, fell and broke a shoulder.
 It was then Ms. Israel learned that Mr. Silverstein's steady hand had become his greatest gift. 
 ''I set up a sick bed for my grandmother in my apartment,'' Ms. Israel recalled. ''I remember Oren gently reassuring her that everything was going to be O.K. It was then that I knew for sure that I would be changing my adoption paperwork from single to couple.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MARRIAGE (78%); RELIGION (78%); CHILDREN (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); CATS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ADOPTION (70%); POP & ROCK (65%); BONE FRACTURES (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GETTY IMAGES INC (57%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541922 COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY (57%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



104 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Living Magazine; THE RULES; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: You Do the Math

BYLINE: By Alexandra Jacobs

 BODY:
Do birthday parties held in restaurants give you a palm-dampening, heart-palpitating anxiety attack? You're not alone.
Maybe it's repressed resentment at never having gotten to wear the Burger King paper crown as a child. Maybe it's a simple fear of singing in public. But more likely it's that inevitable, uncomfortable moment when some self-appointed school-committee type grabs the check, squints at it, performs a mysterious algorithm and loudly announces the amount everyone owes, which includes a portion of Birthday Person's meal, of course. There follows a festive clinking of glasses . . . and a furtive clenching of teeth.
 It's not that we don't wish many happy returns to B. P. -- now blushing in thanks or dashing abashedly to the powder room -- really, we do. It's the guy two chairs down who ordered the foie gras appetizer, Dover sole entree, side of truffled mashed potatoes and three martinis made with designer gin whom we never want to see again. 
 ''Vegetarians always get screwed at these things,'' rightly groused a paralegal who is tired of subsidizing other people's steak frites.
 ''Order the biggest dinner you can,'' advised a struggling stand-up comic, whose cousin's 30th-birthday party of 10, at the Slanted Door in San Francisco, proved anything but funny. ''It was one of those super-overpriced, nothing-on-the-plate places,'' she said, ''and everyone was gorging -- ordering two, three, four dishes. And lots of wine.'' In a vain attempt to be frugal, the comedian ordered but a starter of dumplings, washing them down with tap water. When the bill came, her abstemiousness was ignored; she wound up putting $50 on a credit card. ''I was too passive to speak up -- so mad, and still hungry,'' she said. 
 Large groups of friends going Dutch at birthday parties, at what people persist in calling ''ethnic'' restaurants, is common practice just out of college. ''After age 30, it's tacky,'' the paralegal said -- though surely some slack can be cut for Manhattanites whose apartments are too small to entertain in. But what's the excuse of that successful actress who recently gave a birthday dinner for herself in a private room at a pricey steakhouse in Beverly Hills and, at the end of a boisterous evening, solicited $100 contributions from each invitee? (The drinks were on her, she announced magnanimously.) ''In my mind, 'private room' should be synonymous with 'prepaid,' '' said one bitter attendee.
 Then there was that rising screenwriter who invited 25 associates to a birthday dinner 
 during the popular, budget-friendly Grilled Cheese Night at the upscale Los Angeles restaurant Campanile. About half the group belonged to Hollywood's aspiring creative class -- which is to say, they were unemployed -- and gratefully ordered the sandwiches. The other half, mostly studio execs, decided to order liberally from the regular menu, one giving his meal an extra fillip with an expensive dessert liqueur. When the check came, it was split equally. ''So we had to pay $100 a person for what amounted to two pieces of bread and some cheese,'' fumed one peon. ''And the people with the expensive entrees all had expense accounts!''
 It's not just the guests who are complaining about the practice. ''In my experience, when you host a thing like this, you always end up 10 percent short,'' said -- believe it -- a math professor. ''Is it because, out of 20 people, one or two will just forget to pay entirely? Or because everyone slightly undercalculates what they owe? Who knows?''
 And in the end, who cares? We need not abandon the idea of parties in restaurants altogether. After all, not everyone has the space, the culinary skill or the energy to celebrate friends in the style they deserve. But perhaps there should be a few rules of order(ing). First, avoid long tablefuls of too many people, lest the honoree feel like she is presiding over the Last Supper. ''Groups of 10 or under are great,'' said a novelist who's still recovering from a raucous gathering at a West Village restaurant attended by 19 of her nearest and dearest. If it's a fancy place, consider limiting the menu choices ahead of time to several reasonably priced alternatives and house wines, perhaps to be printed on a keepsake placard. If you have piles of money, consider paying for everybody. If you don't, consider disclosing a rough price of entry ahead of time. And if that is exceeded, suck it up, because the alternative is just unpleasant.
 ''I went to a dinner for a friend that ended with a girl calculating how many glasses of wine each person had had, dividing the cost of the bottle by glass and calculating how much each person owed,'' said a Brooklyn-based lawyer. ''Then she calculated the cost of what each person had had to eat, added in the birthday girl's cost -- you get the point. If you're going to a party at a restaurant, you need to be prepared to split whatever the bill is. Then you can complain about it later to someone who wasn't there.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Melinda Beck) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); PARALEGALS (75%); ETHICS (74%); MEAT FREE DIETS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); DRAMA LITERATURE (60%) Restaurants; Ethics; Parties (Social)

PERSON: Alexandra Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



105 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: May 06, 2007

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended April 21, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount, department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 
 EDITH WHARTON, by Hermione Lee. (Knopf, $35.) This meticulous biography shows Wharton's significance as a designer, decorator, gardener and traveler, as well as a writer. TOO CLOSE TO THE SUN: The Audacious Life and Times of Denys Finch Hatton, by Sara Wheeler. (Random House, $27.95.) The story of the man immortalized in ''Out of Africa.'' HALFLIFE, by Meghan O'Rourke. (Norton, $23.95.) In these dynamic poems, O'Rourke narrows her eyes to discern intelligence from chatter. THE PESTHOUSE, by Jim Crace. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $24.95.) A cataclysm has devastated Crace's America of the future, but even on a dying planet, boy meets girl. A MIRACLE OF CATFISH: A Novel in Progress, by Larry Brown. (Shannon Ravenel/Algonquin, $24.95.) After Brown died in 2004, his editor reverently pared this last, unfinished novel to a workable length, but otherwise didn't alter it. HELPLESS, by Barbara Gowdy. (Metropolitan, $24.) A literary thriller about a pedophile who kidnaps a girl he imagines is being molested. THE HOUSE ON BOULEVARD ST.: New and Selected Poems, by David Kirby. (Louisiana State University; cloth, $50; paper, $18.95.) Kirby believes in the seamlessness of ''high'' and ''low'' art. A FAR COUNTRY, by Daniel Mason. (Knopf, $24.) This novel's impoverished heroine seeks her brother amid the cruelties of a third-world city. THE WORLDS OF LINCOLN KIRSTEIN, by Martin Duberman. (Knopf, $37.50.) Kirstein, who died in 1996, was a novelist, poet, critic, historian and, above all, America's ballet visionary. Troublesome Young Men: The Rebels Who Brought Churchill to Power and Helped Save England, by Lynne Olson. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) Some little-known Tories boldly opposed Neville Chamberlain's appeasement policies. THE DAY OF THE BARBARIANS: The Battle That Led to the Fall of the Roman Empire, by Alessandro Barbero. Translated by John Cullen. (Walker, $24.95.) Romans vs. Goths, A.D. 378. The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.
05,05,06,64


		Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION	1		1	THE CHILDREN OF HARIN, by J. R. R. Tolkien. Edited by Christopher Tolkien. Illustrated by Alan Lee. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) In Middle-earth, an evil lord wants to destroy his rival's children.	2		1	THE WOODS, by Harlan Coben. (Dutton, $26.95.) New evidence about a case of murder and disappearance at a summer camp 20 years earlier forces a county prosecutor to confront family secrets.	3	1	3	I HEARD THAT SONG BEFORE, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A woman marries a childhood acquaintance suspected of several murders.	4		1	THE GOOD HUSBAND OF ZEBRA DRIVE, by Alexander McCall Smith. (Pantheon, $21.95.) The eighth novel in the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series.	5	2	7	NINETEEN MINUTES, by Jodi Picoult. (Atria, $26.95.) The aftermath of a high school shooting reveals the fault lines in a small New Hampshire town.	6	5	4	OBSESSION, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $26.95.)The psychologist-detective Alex Delaware investigates an apparent deathbed confession of murder.	7	3	2	FRESH DISASTERS, by Stuart Woods. (Putnam, $25.95.) Stone Barrington, the New York cop turned lawyer, tangles with a mob boss.	8	6	3	KINGDOM COME, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $25.99.) The final title in the ''Left Behind'' series.	9*	9	2	SLEEPING WITH STRANGERS, by Eric Jerome Dickey. (Dutton, $24.95.) A hit man who hopes to leave the business travels to London to escape pursuers.	10	8	4	THE ALIBI MAN, by Tami Hoag. (Bantam, $26.) A disgraced former policewoman investigates a murder linked to a group of wealthy Palm Beach men.	11	7	3	WHITE NIGHT, by Jim Butcher. (Roc, $23.95.) Someone is killing Chicago's minor wizards, and the half-brother of Harry Dresden, a wizard detective, is a suspect.	12		1	THE BLUE ZONE, by Andrew Gross. (Morrow, $25.95.) A young woman searches for her father when he disappears from the Witness Protection Program.	13	13	11	STEP ON A CRACK, by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) A detective raising 10 children alone must rescue 34 high-level hostages.	14	4	3	THE RELUCTANT FUNDAMENTALIST, by Mohsin Hamid. (Harcourt, $22.) The life of a Pakistani immigrant, successful in the corporate world, is changed by 9/11.	15	10	7	WHITETHORN WOODS, by Maeve Binchy. (Knopf, $25.95.) A proposed highway threatens the existence of a religious shrine in a rural Irish village.	16*	14	2	THE LAND OF MANGO SUNSETS, by Dorothea Benton Frank. (Morrow, $24.95.) A Manhattan socialite whose husband has left her learns to move on with her life.			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	NONFICTION	1	1	2	EINSTEIN, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) A biography based on newly released personal letters.	2	3	3	PAULA DEEN: IT AIN'T ALL ABOUT THE COOKIN', by Paula Deen with Sherry Suib Cohen. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A memoir with recipes from the Southern cooking impresario. 	3	2	10	A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A former child soldier from Sierra Leone describes his drug-crazed killing spree and his return to humanity.	4		1	WHERE HAVE ALL THE LEADERS GONE?, by Lee Iacocca. (Scribner, $25.) The former C.E.O. of Chrysler protests the lack of political and business leadership on issues like health care and energy policy.	5	7	27	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.	6	9	6	HOW DOCTORS THINK, by Jerome Groopman. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) A doctor and New Yorker staff writer describes how doctors arrive at diagnoses.	12	100	7	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.	8		1	THIS MOMENT ON EARTH, by John Kerry and Teresa Heinz Kerry. (Public Affairs, $25.) Environmental challenges and possible solutions.	9		1	CRAZIES TO THE LEFT OF ME, WIMPS TO THE RIGHT, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''100 People Who Are Screwing Up America'' attacks liberals and accuses Republicans of betraying conservative principles.	10		1	THE WILD TREES, by Richard Preston. (Random House, $25.95.) The people who climb the massive California redwoods to study the complex life in their canopies.	11	5	11	INFIDEL, by Ayaan Hirsi Ali. (Free Press, $26.) A memoir by the Somali-born advocate for Muslim immigrant women.	12*	4	5	GRACE (EVENTUALLY), by Anne Lamott. (Riverhead, $24.95.) Essays about faith and forgiveness. 	13	8	38	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging.	14	10	2	KABUL BEAUTY SCHOOL, by Deborah Rodriguez with Kristin Ohlson. (Random House, $24.95.) To aid Afghan women, an American runs a beauty school in Kabul.	15	11	4	THE NEW AMERICAN STORY, by Bill Bradley. (Random House, $25.95.) The former Democratic senator and presidential candidate presents a liberal-centrist agenda.	16*	13	31	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational.	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); RETAILERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); POETRY (88%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); CLASSICS (77%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (70%); SEX OFFENSES (63%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



106 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Living Magazine; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 2434 words

HEADLINE: Talk Dirt To Me

BYLINE: By Harold McGee and Daniel Patterson

 BODY:
It's hard to have a conversation about wine these days without hearing the French word terroir. Derived from a Latin root meaning ''earth,'' terroir describes the relationship between a wine and the specific place that it comes from. For example, many will say the characteristic minerality of wines from Chablis comes from the limestone beds beneath the vineyards (although, when pressed, they generally admit that they've never actually tasted limestone). The idea that one can taste the earth in a wine is appealing, a welcome link to nature and place in a delocalized world; it has also become a rallying cry in an increasingly sharp debate over the direction of modern winemaking. The trouble is, it's not true. 
When terroir was first associated with wine, in the 17th-century phrase goA<check>t de terroir (literally, ''taste of the earth''), it was not intended as a compliment. Its meaning began to change in 1831, when Dr. Morelot, a wealthy landowner in Burgundy, observed in his ''Statistique de la Vigne Dans le Departement de la CA$(4$)te-d'Or'' that all of the wineries in Burgundy made wine essentially the same way, so the reason some tasted better than others must be due to the terroir -- specifically, the substrata underneath the topsoil of a vineyard. Wine, he claimed, derived its flavor from the site's geology: in essence, from rocks. 
 In recent years, the concept that one can taste rocks and soil in a wine has become popular with wine writers, importers and sommeliers. ''Wines express their source with exquisite definition,'' asserts Matt Kramer in his book ''Making Sense of Wine.'' ''They allow us to eavesdrop on the murmurings of the earth.'' Of a California vineyard's highly regarded chardonnays, he writes, there is ''a powerful flavor of the soil: the limestone speaks.'' The sommelier Paul Grieco, in his wine list at Hearth in New York, writes of rieslings that ''the glory of the varietal is in its transparency, its ability to truly reflect the soil in which it is grown.'' In his February newsletter, Kermit Lynch, one of the most respected importers of French wine, returns repeatedly to the stony flavors in various white wines from a ''terroirist'' winemaker in Alsace: ''When he speaks of a granitic soil, the wine in your glass tastes of it.''
 If you ask a hundred people about the meaning of terroir, they'll give you a hundred definitions, which can be as literal as tasting limestone or as metaphorical as a feeling. Terroir flavors are generally characterized as earthiness and minerality. On the other hand, wines with flavors of berries or tropical fruits and little or no minerality are therefore assumed not to have as clear a connection to the earth, which means they could have come from anywhere, and are thought to bear the mark of human intervention.
 If this seems confusing -- especially given that wine is made from fruit -- it gets worse when you ask winemakers about how to get the flavors from the rocks into the glass. According to them, a good expression of terroir requires more work in the vineyards, or possibly less; it's the hotter climate in California that leads to its high-alcohol, fruit-forward, terroir-less style, or possibly not; even the oft-heard contention that a winemaker must ''work with what the vines give you'' is contradicted by Ales Kristancic of Movia winery, whose family has been making wines from vineyards on the Italy-Slovenia border for hundreds of years. ''Plants need to understand what the winemaker wants,'' Kristancic says. ''Only a winery with great tradition can make great vineyards.'' 
 Since there's so little consensus among winemakers about how to foster the expression of place -- what Matt Kramer calls ''somewhereness'' -- in their wines, what are our wine experts tasting? How can a place or a soil express itself through wine? Does terroir really exist?
 Yes, but the effects of a place on a wine are far more complex than simply tasting the earth beneath the vine. Great wines are produced on many different soil types, from limestone to granite to clay, in places where the vines get just enough water and nourishment from the soil to grow without deficiencies and where the climate allows the grapes to ripen slowly but fully. It's also true that different soils can elicit different flavors from the same grape. Researchers in Spain recently compared wines from the same clone of grenache grafted on the same rootstock, harvested and vinified in exactly the same way, but grown in two vineyards 1,600 feet apart, one with a soil significantly richer in potassium, calcium and nitrogen. The wines from the mineral-rich soil were higher in apparent density, alcohol and ripe-raisiny aromas; wines from the poorer soil were higher in acid, astringency and applelike aromas. The different soils produced different flavors, but they were flavors of fruit and of the yeast fermentation. What about the flavors of soil and granite and limestone that wine experts describe as minerality -- a term oddly missing from most formal treatises on wine flavor? Do they really go straight from the earth to the wine to the discerning palate?
 No. 
 Consider the grapevine growing in the earth. It takes in elemental, inert materials from the planet -- air and water and minerals -- and, using energy captured from sunlight, turns them into a living, growing organism. It doesn't just accumulate the earth's materials. It transforms them into the sugars, acids, aromas, tannins, pigments and dozens of other molecules that make grapes and wine delicious.
 ''Plants don't really interact with rocks,'' explains Mark Matthews, a plant physiologist at the University of California, Davis who studies vines. ''They interact with the soil, which is a mixture of broken-down rock and organic matter. And plant roots are selective. They don't absorb whatever's there in the soil and send it to the fruit. If they did, fruits would taste like dirt.'' He continues, ''Any minerals from the solid rock that vine roots do absorb -- sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, iron, a handful of others -- have to be dissolved first in the soil moisture. Most of them are essential nutrients, and they mainly affect how well the plant as a whole grows.''
 Most of the earthy and mineral aromas and flavors that we detect in wine actually come from the interaction of the grape and yeast. Yeasts metabolize the grape sugars into alcohol, along the way freeing up and spinning off the dozens of aromatic chemicals that make wine more than just alcoholic grape juice. It's because of the yeasts that we can catch whiffs of tropical fruits, grilled meats, toasted bread and other things that have never been anywhere near the grapes or the wine. The list of evocative yeast products includes an organic sulfur molecule that can give sauvignon blancs a ''flinty'' aroma. And there are minor yeasts that create molecules called volatile phenols, whose earthy, smoky flavors have nothing to do with the soil but are suggestive of it, especially in wines from the southern Rhone. 
 Grape minerals and mineral flavors are also strongly influenced by the grower and winemaker. When a vineyard is planted, the vine type, spacing and orientation are just a few of many important decisions. Growers control the plant growth in myriad ways, such as pruning, canopy management or, most obviously, irrigating and replenishing the soil with manures or chemical fertilizers. The winemaker then makes hundreds of choices that affect wine flavor, beginning with the ripeness at which the grapes are harvested, and can change the mineral content by using metal equipment, concrete fermentation tanks or clarifying agents made from bentonite clay. Jamie Goode, a British plant biologist turned wine writer, describes in his superbly lucid book ''Wine Science'' how techniques that minimize the wine's contact with oxygen can increase the levels of sulfur compounds that may be mistaken for ''mineral'' character from the soil.
 So, if vines absorb only rock that is dissolved in water, if grape and wine minerals are not a reflection of the rocks' minerals, and if earthy aromas in wine come from microbes and not the earth, do soil minerals have any real role in wine flavor?
 Hildegarde Heymann, a sensory scientist at U.C. Davis, is skeptical about the usefulness of the terms 'terroir'' and ''minerality'' as they're used today. But she is intrigued by ''minerality.'' ''People who talk about minerality are describing something they perceive that's hard to grab on to,'' she says. ''My guess is that it's a composite perception, something like 'creaminess' in dairy foods. 'Minerality' might be a way of describing a combination of complexity, balance and a substantial body. We do know that mineral ions can affect wine flavor by affecting acidity, chemical reaction rates and the volatility of aromas. And we're just now looking at whether they can affect the body of wine, its 'mouth feel.' They might.''
 It's possible, then, that soil minerals may affect wine flavor indirectly, by reacting with other grape and yeast substances that produce flavor and tactile sensations, or by altering the production of flavor compounds as the grape matures on the vine.
 The place where grapes are grown clearly affects the wine that is made from them, but it's not a straightforward matter of tasting the earth. If the earth ''speaks'' through wine, it's only after its murmurings have been translated into a very different language, the chemistry of the living grape and microbe. We don't taste a place in a wine. We taste a wine from a place -- the special qualities that a place enables grapes and yeasts to express, aided and abetted by the grower and winemaker. 
 In the years following Dr. Morelot's missive on terroir, the quality of a wine became synonymous with the quality of the vineyard where it originated. This meant the value of that wine was tied to the land instead of to the winemaker, which allowed it to be handed down from generation to generation. The French went on to codify their vineyards into legal appellations, creating gradations within those appellations that demarcated clear levels of quality (grand cru, first growth and so on), the economic effects of which are felt to this day. Given that it was landowners who benefited most, the commonly held idea of terroir -- wine as proxy for a piece of dirt -- looks a lot like one of the longest-running, most successful marketing campaigns of the modern era. 
 Today, it's easy to ascribe all this terroir talk to commerce, to the European reaction to California's recent rise in viniculture status. It's been suggested that terroir is just the Old World saying to the New: It's the land, stupid -- we have it and you don't. But that doesn't explain why so many Americans have embraced the concept with near-religious zeal. To paraphrase the great French wine historian Roger Dion, why have so many brilliant and passionate wine professionals been so eager to attribute solely to nature what is actually the result of hard work by talented winemakers? 
 The answer lies in the complex relationship between tradition, culture and taste. Those wine professionals have all spent vast amounts of time and energy learning what traditional European wines taste like, region by region, winery by winery, vineyard by vineyard. The version of terroir that many of them hold is that those wines taste the way they do because of the enduring natural setting, i.e., the rocks and soil. These wines taste the way they do because people have chosen to emphasize flavors that please them. 
 The pioneering French oenologist Amile Peynaud wrote nearly 25 years ago: ''I cannot agree with the view that 'one accepts human intervention (in vinification) as long as it allows the natural characteristics to remain intact,' since it is precisely human intervention which has created and highlighted these so-called natural characteristics!'' Modern European views of terroir recognize that typical local flavors are the creation of generations of growers and winemakers, shaping the vineyard and fine-tuning the fermentation to make what they feel are the best wines possible in their place. Typical flavors are expressions not of nature but of culture.
 But culture, unlike nature, isn't static. It evolves in response to shifting tastes and technological advances. Over the past 30 years, the staid world of European winemaking has been roiled by an influx of American consumers, led by their apostle, the writer Robert Parker. In his reviews, Parker has brushed aside the traditional practice of judging wine according to historical context (that is, how it should taste), focusing instead on what's in the bottle. His preference for hugely concentrated, fruit-forward wines -- the antithesis of distinctive, diverse terroir wines -- has dramatically changed the economic landscape of the wine industry. Throughout the world, more and more winemakers are making wine in the style that Parker prefers, even in Europe, where this means abandoning distinctive local styles that had evolved over centuries. ''Somewhereness'' is being replaced by ''anywhereness.'' 
 The simplistic idea of terroir as a direct expression of nature has become a rhetorical weapon in the fight against this trend. Kristancic -- who interrupted our interview to raise his fists and shout to the heavens, ''They're ruining wine!'' -- sees an advancing wave of homogenization that will eventually turn wine into a soulless, deracinated commodity. Like many others, he is afraid of losing what is special about the traditional role of wine in human life, its way of connecting people to the land and to one another. Conjuring granite in Alsatian rieslings and limestone in Chablis puts that connection to the land right in the bottle, ours for the tasting. 
 If rocks were the key to the flavor of ''somewhereness,'' then it would be simple to counterfeit terroir with a few mineral saltshakers. But the essence of wine is more elusive than that, and far richer. Scientists and historians continue to illuminate what Peynaud described as the ''dual communion'' represented by wine: ''on the one hand with nature and the soil, through the mystery of plant growth and the miracle of fermentation, and on the other with man, who wanted wine and who was able to make it by means of knowledge, hard work, patience, care and love.'' ''Somewhereness'' is given its meaning by ''someoneness'': in our time, by the terroirists who are working hard to discover and capture in a bottle the difference that place can make. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: You are here? If that Chablis tastes like schist (or limestone), it's only partly due to what kind of rock lies beneath the vines. (Photographs by Christopher Griffith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINERIES (89%); WINE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (64%); WRITERS (63%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines; Yeast

PERSON: Harold Mcgee; Daniel Patteron

GEOGRAPHIC: BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (92%); ALSACE, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); GOA, INDIA (56%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



107 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: The Year of the Large Caps? This Time, Don't Laugh

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
LONG-SUFFERING blue-chip stocks are finally back.
 To be sure, that's what market strategists said last year. After large-capitalization stocks outperformed shares of highflying small companies from February to December, many investors were convinced that 2007 would be the year of the blue chips. In fact, at the start of this year, money managers were voicing the most confidence about the category of large-cap domestic growth stocks, which has been struggling ever since the technology bubble burst in 2000.
But just when it looked safe to dive back into the large end of the equity pool, small-cap stocks staged their own comeback: they beat the blue chips in the first quarter this year. 
 Still, look at what's been happening in the second quarter: the Russell 1000 index of large-cap stocks has been on a tear, surging 4.2 percent in April, versus a modest 1.8 percent gain for the Russell 2000 index of small stocks. 
 As a result, the numbers now show large-cap stocks beating small caps since the start of the year. And over the last 12 months, the large stocks have generated nearly twice the total returns of the small caps.
 If the trend continues, ''it will be the most anticipated change in market leadership that I can recall,'' said Ernest M. Ankrim, chief investment strategist at the Russell Investment Group in Tacoma, Wash.
 Of course, many investors say that this is still a big ''if.'' Given recent head fakes in the market, how can we be certain that the large-cap rally is for real this time?
 For starters, investors aren't just talking up blue-chip stocks. They're bidding them up.
 For the first time in a long while, substantial money is flowing into these stocks. For example, so-called large blend stock mutual funds -- which invest in a mix of growth- and value-oriented blue chips -- were the most popular fund category in March. 
 According to the Financial Research Corporation, which tracks fund flows, large blend funds pulled in a net $6.6 billion during that month. That is more net new money than they attracted in all of 2005 and 2006 combined.
 Last year, many of the most popular stock funds specialized in foreign equities. That is hardly surprising, since overseas markets have been outperforming domestic ones in recent years. But in the first three months of 2007, the single most popular fund has been the Vanguard Total Stock Market Index fund, which invests in a wide range of domestic equities but mostly in blue chips. Moreover, two of the three most popular funds in March were index funds that mimic the Standard & Poor's 500 index of blue-chip stocks.
 Of course, large-cap stocks aren't benefiting only from trends in fund flows. They're also benefiting from recent market movements.
 Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago, says he relies on a technical indicator to gauge the prospects for large-cap stocks. Right now, that indicator shows that the relative performance of large-cap stocks, versus that of small caps, is about as good as it has been in nearly two years. And that, Mr. Ablin says, is a bullish sign for the blue chips.
 ''You had all the stars aligned for large stocks for the past couple years,'' he said, pointing to the slowing economy and the aging bull market. ''But the one thing you're finally starting to see that confirms this trend is momentum.'' 
 Plenty of fundamental signs point to a sustained large-cap rally. Among them are these: A FALLING DOLLAR -- As the dollar has weakened in recent years, the value of profits generated abroad by large multinational companies based in the United States has increased, said Robert C. Doll, global chief investment officer for equities at BlackRock, the investment management firm. 
 So far this year, the dollar has lost an additional 3 percent against the euro. This is one reason that profits among companies in the S.& P. 500 have been exceeding expectations, Mr. Doll said.
 Because small companies tend to generate most of their business domestically, they are less likely to enjoy this tailwind. ECONOMIC STRENGTH ABROAD -- The fact that many foreign economies are growing faster than the United States economy is a boon to those American-based multinationals that derive a substantial percentage of their profits overseas, Mr. Doll said. ''There are a number of multinational companies that said their quarter was O.K., but then you read between the lines and discover that they had strong growth outside the U.S.,'' he said. ECONOMIC QUESTIONS AT HOME -- There is tangible evidence that economic growth is slowing in the United States. In fact, a preliminary reading of gross domestic product showed that the domestic economy expanded at an annual rate of just 1.3 percent in the first quarter. That's down from 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 ''Slowing economies make growth and earnings harder to come by,'' said Mr. Ankrim at the Russell Investment Group. ''Therefore, companies that can generate more consistent, stable earnings will appear to be more attractive'' than the alternatives, he said. And that means large, industry-leading companies should do well.
 Until this quarter, said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, investors didn't appear worried about a slowdown in economic growth. He points out that in the market's recent rallies, shares of small or economically sensitive companies tended to perform best. But faith in a resilient economy appears to be ebbing, as large-cap stocks have outperformed economically sensitive small-cap shares since the current rally began on March 5. ''That's certainly caught my attention,'' Mr. Paulsen said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INDEX FUNDS (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BONDS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (54%) WASHINGTON, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



108 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Other Reasons Borrowers Falter

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FOR housing economists, the best gauge of whether borrowers will repay their mortgages is their job status. When unemployment jumps, foreclosures are not far behind. 
 But according to a recent study by Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage company, even people with good jobs and good credit are struggling to keep pace with their mortgages.
In an analysis of 2006 figures, Freddie Mac found that among borrowers with good credit, rising health-care costs and personal debts were the reasons behind a growing number of mortgage delinquencies and that far fewer delinquencies were tied to job losses or pay cuts. 
 ''With respect to mortgage delinquencies, unemployment is always a problem,'' said Amy Crews Cutts, the deputy chief economist at Freddie Mac, which is based in Washington. ''But we're paying a higher dollar amount each year for health insurance and uncovered health-care costs, and many people are taking on too much debt. These represent a rising part of why people are getting behind on their mortgages.''
 At the end of 2006, job losses or pay cuts caused 36 percent of delinquencies, compared with 43 percent for each year between 2001 and 2005, Freddie Mac found. 
 Meanwhile, delinquencies caused by too much personal debt, including insurance premiums, rose to nearly 14 percent, up from 11 percent, while delinquencies ascribed to health care and illness rose to about 21 percent, from about 19 percent.
 Nationally, delinquency rates were up slightly in 2006, mostly from borrowers with poor credit who struggled to keep up with subprime loans. But those with good credit also struggled, particularly those with adjustable-rate mortgages or those with fluctuating interest rates. 
 Ms. Crews Cutts said that most people with ARM's use them to buy houses they may not otherwise be able to afford, ''especially in high-cost areas like New York or California, where buying any home is financially challenging.''
 ''If you come in at the edge of affordability,'' she said, ''and gas prices go up $100 a month, and insurance premiums go up, and then a water heater breaks, that's the kind of thing that can put a family over the edge.''
 Credit-card debt, which grew at a rate of about 3 percent from 2003 to 2005, jumped by 6.5 percent last year, to an average of $6,000, according to Federal Reserve Board data. 
 And although wages have grown over the last decade, they have not kept pace with housing prices, which increased on a national level by 70 percent during that span. Between 2004 and 2006 alone, median prices for single-family homes in New York and North Jersey rose to $469,500 from $386,000, according to the National Association of Realtors. 
 Inflation was generally under control during that time, but inflation does not take into account increases in what workers contribute to health-care insurance, according to Dean Baker, a co-director of the Center for Economic Policy and Research, a liberal think tank in Washington. 
 ''Workers are being hit fairly hard on that front,'' he said.
 According to a study last year by the Kaiser Family Foundation and Hewitt Associates, health-care premiums have jumped 87 percent since 2000. During the same period, the percentage of workers covered by an employer's health plan dropped by three percentage points. 
 Those who are still covered are bearing a greater share of that burden, the Kaiser foundation said. In the Northeast, for instance, they paid $2,765 for family coverage last year, up from $1,499 in 2001.
 Finally, property taxes are taking a toll, Ms. Crews Cutts said. ''For a while we were in a situation where home prices were rising, and counties were seeing more revenue, so they cut tax rates,'' she said. ''Now we're seeing them jacking up rates. It may not seem like a big deal, but it's another hidden cost we don't always consider.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%) Housing; Mortgages; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit; Consumer Credit

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



109 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Long Island; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Portrait of a Village as an Arts Haven

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

DATELINE: PATCHOGUE 

 BODY:
CHIP HUNTER, an artist in Patchogue, was thinking about relocating to Huntington when he heard that Artspace Projects, a Minneapolis-based nonprofit real estate developer for the arts, was considering an affordable live-work development for artists in his village. Mr. Hunter, 48, who has a mosaic, stained-glass and stonework showroom on Main Street, decided to stay. 
 Artspace, which owns and manages 18 artist housing projects nationally from Washington State to Bridgeport, Conn., painstakingly rehabilitates abandoned historic buildings into affordable loft-style dwellings, transforming blighted areas with a SoHo effect.
''It will draw artists from all over New York,'' Mr. Hunter said. ''Artspace may be a catalyst to help the artists work together.'' 
 Artspace recently completed a survey of artists across the region to try to gauge interest in the Patchogue live-work development. 
 Proponents believe it could become a catalyst for the arts in Suffolk County. ''It will be an incredible anchor for the village and set the pace for Patchogue to become an artists' colony and develop a personality and make it more of a destination spot,'' Mr. Hunter said. 
 According to Teri Deaver, director of consulting and new projects for Artspace, ''Economic redevelopment in an area is often an outcome of this type of project.'' Artspace, which was founded in 1979, works with cities, private developers, nonprofit groups and historic preservationists. 
 ''Some communities want projects like this because they are looking for an identity,'' Ms. Deaver added, ''or some communities want to strengthen their identity that they already have in terms of the arts.'' 
 A new identity is what Mayor Paul V. Pontieri envisions for this village of 12,000 set on 2.2 square miles, with a ferry terminal to the Fire Island National Seashore on the Patchogue River and 29 acres of waterfront park on the Great South Bay. 
 In the late 1800s and early 1900s, Patchogue, which is about 55 miles from Midtown Manhattan, was the last stop on the Long Island Rail Road and a summer colony with 1,000 hotel rooms. ''We were the Hamptons,'' Mr. Pontieri said. ''That was our identity.''
 When the railroad line was extended to Montauk, tourists started vacationing farther east, and the hotels became boarding houses or were shuttered. So in the 1920s, Patchogue made its first transition, becoming one of Long Island's major shopping districts, with J. C. Penney, Woolworth's and Swezey's department stores. 
 But the opening of big-box stores north of the village on Sunrise Highway in the 1980s caused another shift, again robbing Patchogue of its cachet. The Smith Haven and Bay Shore malls lured shoppers away, leaving a blight of vacancies on Main Street. ''Our identity had gone from tourist to commercial retail to nothing,'' said Mr. Pontieri, 59. 
 The rebirth in 1999 of the Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, originally a 1921 vaudeville house and later a big-screen movie theater and triplex, has started to revive Main Street, Mr. Pontieri said. In the last two years, five restaurants have opened. 
 The village invested $5 million into the 1,250-seat theater, which is used by local dance troupes as well as the Gateway Playhouse, a Bellport-based equity theater, which stages Broadway-style shows like ''Miss Saigon'' in Patchogue during the summer months and holiday season. 
 But that is not enough. ''The theater as an art space can't stand alone without other things around it,'' Mr. Pontieri said.
 Hoping that new housing for artists could be completed in two years, Mr. Pontieri has raised $75,000 and secured commitments for the rest of the $450,000 that an Artspace project would cost the village. Officials believe the project could ultimately cost tens of millions of dollars, but Artspace has yet to select a site or a design.
 Three locations are under consideration. The prime candidate is the original 1907 Patchogue library, which has columns and arched windows and neo-Classical design, and a more modern addition next to it, which could be rebuilt as a residential tower, encompassing half a block of vacant buildings in the heart of downtown. 
 Two vacant lots owned by the village are the other possibilities. One is on Lake Street, down the block from the old library. Another, on Terry Street, might incorporate two mill houses once used by workers in the local lace mill, which closed in 1954 on the site of what is now Briarcliffe College, a career-oriented school. 
 The project would create about 45 residential units and draw artists from Manhattan to Montauk, said Gerard J. Crean, a village trustee. 
 While survey results are not complete, Ms. Deaver said, more than 300 artists responded, which is considered ''a strong return.'' 
 In a typical Artspace project, the units tend to be bigger than traditional affordable housing and incorporate studio and living spaces with lots of natural light and open floor plans. Retail space on the first floor is often used for galleries, with community space set aside for workshops, classes and public arts works. 
 ''The housing we create is by design attractive to artists,'' Ms. Deaver said. Artspace keeps rents affordable by financing the projects with a mix of public and private loans and private donations. 
 Artists across the spectrum -- writers, sculptors, painters, filmmakers, photographers, actors, costume designers -- are welcome. 
 There is no admissions jury: artists are vetted to determine their commitment to their art form, Ms. Deaver said. To qualify financially, they must earn about 60 percent of median income. For a family of four, the annual income limit would be $56,280.
 Michelle Stark, director of Suffolk County's office of film and cultural affairs, expressed the hope that Artspace would attract businesses related to the arts and lure enterprises like advertising and filmmaking.
 It may also help to stem the tide of people 18 to 34, who according to the Long Island Index, an annual study of economic and social trends, are flowing off the Island, partly because they cannot afford to live here. Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, called Artspace ''a wonderful way to provide affordable housing.'' 
 James Morgo, Suffolk's commissioner of economic development, said artists could help to spark a downtown revival. ''By bringing these folks downtown,'' he said, ''you are not only creating affordable homes but you are also creating this vibrancy in the downtown.'' 
 Leonardo Liguori, 46, a filmmaker, photographer and writer in Mastic Beach, said he was ''extremely intrigued'' by the possibility of living in an artists' community.
 ''Just the exchange of ideas, thoughts or arguments stimulates artists,'' said Mr. Liguori, whose 1996 film, ''Lace Mill,'' was made in Patchogue. In his view, artists need ''such a community, where your neighbors are all artists and they can invite you in to get feedback.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: POTENTIAL STUDIOS -- Gerard J. Crean, a Patchogue village trustee, and Paul V. Pontieri, the mayor, in front of the 1907 library, a possible site for housing for artists. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); MAYORS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (71%); HISTORY (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); BEACHES (67%); FERRIES (67%); NATIONAL PARKS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (64%); RETAILERS (63%); ISLANDS & REEFS (62%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) Housing; Historic Buildings and Sites; Art

ORGANIZATION: Artspace (Orgn)

PERSON: Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Patchogue (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



110 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 5-06-07: FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Laid-Back Labor

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of ''Freakonomics.'' More information on the research behind this column is online at www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
The $140 Homemade Scarf
 During the late 19th century, piano manufacturing was one of New York City's largest industries. Every right-minded American family, it seemed, wanted to fill its home with music. The advent of the player piano -- a music-making machine that required zero talent -- drove the boom even further. By the 1920s, some 300,000 pianos were being sold in the United States each year, roughly two-thirds of them player pianos.
But a pair of newer technologies, the radio and the phonograph, soon began to drive the piano into a deep disfavor that continues to this day. Last year, Americans bought only 76,966 pianos. That's a decrease of 75 percent over a period in which the population more than doubled. As much as people may love music, most of them apparently don't feel the need to make it for themselves. According to Census Bureau statistics, only 7.3 percent of American adults have played a musical instrument in the past 12 months. 
 Compare this with the 17.5 percent of adults who currently engage in what the Census Bureau calls ''cooking for fun.'' Or consider that 41 percent of households have flower gardens, 25 percent raise vegetables and 13 percent grow fruit trees -- even though just 1 percent of Americans live on a farm today, down from 30 percent in 1920. On a more personal note: one of the authors of this column has a sister who runs a thriving yarn store, while the other is married to a knitting devotee who might buy $40 worth of yarn for a single scarf and then spend 10 hours knitting it. Even if her labor is valued at only $10 an hour, the scarf costs at least $140 -- or roughly $100 more than a similar machine-made scarf might cost.
 Isn't it puzzling that so many middle-aged Americans are spending so much of their time and money performing menial labors when they don't have to? Just as the radio and phonograph proved to be powerful substitutes for the piano, the forces of technology and capitalism have greatly eased the burden of feeding and clothing ourselves. So what's with all the knitting, gardening and ''cooking for fun''? Why do some forms of menial labor survive as hobbies while others have been killed off? (For instance, we can't think of a single person who, since the invention of the washing machine, practices ''laundry for fun.'')
 Economists have been trying for decades to measure how much leisure time people have and how they spend it, but there has been precious little consensus. This is in part because it's hard to say what constitutes leisure and in part because measurements of leisure over the years have not been very consistent. 
 Economists typically separate our daily activities into three categories: market work (which produces income), home production (unpaid chores) and pure leisure. How, then, are we to categorize knitting, gardening and cooking? While preparing meals at home can certainly be much cheaper than dining out and therefore viewed as home production, what about the ''cooking for fun'' factor? 
 In an attempt to address such gray areas, the economists Valerie A. Ramey and Neville Francis classified certain home activities as labor and others as leisure. In their recent paper ''A Century of Work and Leisure,'' they employed a 1985 time-use survey in which people ranked their enjoyment of various activities on a scale of 0 to 10. Knitting, gardening and cooking were in the middle of the scale, with a 7.7, 7.1 and 6.6, respectively. These ranked well behind the three favorite activities -- sex, playing sports and fishing (which scored 9.3, 9.2 and 9.1) -- but firmly ahead of paying bills, cleaning the house and, yes, doing the laundry (5.2, 4.9 and 4.8).
 But here's where it gets tricky. Ramey and Francis decided that anything at or above a 7.3 is leisure, while anything below is home production. (Knitting, therefore, makes the grade as leisure; gardening and cooking do not.) This leads them to calculate that we spend less time doing market work today than we did in 1900 but more time in home production. Men, it seems, have contributed mightily to this upsurge: in 1920, employed men spent only two or three hours a week on home production, but they averaged 11 hours by 1965 and 16 hours by 2004.
 But how many of those home-production hours are in fact leisure hours? This, it seems, is the real question here: What makes a certain activity work for one person and leisure for another?
 With no disrespect toward Ramey and Francis, how about this for an alternative definition: Whether or not you're getting paid, it's work if someone else tells you to do it and leisure if you choose to do it yourself. If you are the sort of person who likes to mow his own lawn even though you can afford to pay someone to do it, consider how you'd react if your neighbor offered to pay you the going rate to mow his lawn. The odds are that you wouldn't accept his job offer.
 And so a great many people who can afford not to perform menial labor choose to do so, because -- well, why? An evolutionary biologist might say that embedded in our genes is a drive to feed and clothe ourselves and tame our surroundings. An economist, meanwhile, might argue that we respond to incentives that go well beyond the financial; and that, mercifully, we are left free to choose which tasks we want to do ourselves. 
 Granted, these choices may say a good bit about who we are and where we come from. One of us, for instance (the economist, who lives in Chicago), grew up comfortably in a Midwestern city and has fond memories of visiting his grandparents' small farm. This author recently bought an indoor hydroponic plant grower. It cost about $150 and to date has produced approximately 14 cherry tomatoes -- which, once you factor in the cost of seeds, electricity and even a nominal wage for the labor, puts the average price of a single tomato at roughly $20. 
 The other one of us (the journalist, who lives in New York) grew up on a small farm and was regularly engaged in all sorts of sowing, mucking and reaping. He, therefore, has little vestigial desire to grow his own food -- but he is happy to spend hours shopping for and preparing a special dinner for family and friends. Such dinners, even if the labor were valued at only $10 an hour, are more expensive than a commensurate takeout meal.
 Maybe someday the New York guy will get to cook a meal with some of the Chicago guy's cherry tomatoes. Add in another $32 for next-day shipping, and it might become one of the most expensive meals in recent memory -- and, surely, worth every penny. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Sahre) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (93%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (78%); CENSUS (75%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (70%); STATISTICS (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (67%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) Labor; Hobbies ; Leisure; Wages and Salaries; Labor

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

PERSON: Stephen J Dubner; Steven D Levitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



111 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: First World, Third World (Maybe Not in That Order)

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
WOULD you risk part of your children's college fund or your retirement in third-world equities? You may already have.
 These days, ''third world'' is usually viewed as synonymous with destitution and perpetual civil war. But the term originated with a positive connotation.
 In 1952, Alfred Sauvy, a French demographer inspired by a famous French Revolution pamphlet on the rising Third Estate, likened the developed, or first world, to the nobility and the Communist, or second world, to the clergy. He singled out the rest -- which he named the third world (in other words, the ''commoners'') -- as the group to watch.
 Antoine van Agtmael, in ''The Emerging Markets Century'' (Free Press, $28), outdoes Sauvy, predicting that the third world ''will overtake the developed world by around 2030-35.'' In fact, some global alignments have already shifted. 
 Just a few decades ago, a wizened hand at Bankers Trust scoffed at a young Mr. van Agtmael that ''there are no markets outside the United States!'' But the author had grown up in the Netherlands, and as a boy he had owned shares in the Dutch giants Philips, Shell and Unilever. (Bankers was later swallowed by Deutsche Bank.) So, early on, he learned that experts can be wrong. Then he became an expert.
 In the late 1970s, Mr. van Agtmael commissioned a study of what he viewed as leading third-world companies. By 1981, at the New York office of Salomon Brothers, he was pitching a ''Third World Equity Fund.'' After someone in the audience told him that it was a good idea but a lousy name, he became a marketing genius: he coined the phrase ''emerging markets.''
 And emerge some did. When Mr. van Agtmael first visited South Korea for Bankers in 1971, ''Seoul looked like a city in the Soviet Union, which I had just crossed on the Trans-Siberian Railroad,'' he writes. ''No skyscrapers yet loomed over the cramped city center and anti-aircraft guns were starkly visible on just about every street corner.'' Under what was then a military dictatorship, per capita income in South Korea was around $225. Today it exceeds $10,000.
 Consider, too, that in 1971 India was embroiled in a war with Pakistan, resulting in the bloody birth of Bangladesh. China, under Mao, was a grotesquely violent paroxysm. Vietnam was being bombed into the Stone Age. Today, where would your portfolio be without them?
 Asia's economic surge is among the grand stories of modern times; it was part of -- yet broader than -- the collapse of the Soviet Union, which unexpectedly opened the second world to a slosh of investment capital, too. As late as 1981, Mr. van Agtmael says, the value of all shares on emerging-market stock exchanges was a mere $80 billion. Today it is more than $5 trillion.
 But are such investments fated to founder?
 Amid the hype about emerging markets, Mr. van Agtmael understands that some had a long history of fabulous wealth before 1800, so they are essentially re-emerging, like India and China. Their current trajectory could endure. But for the rest of the old third world, achieving sustained growth and high per-capita gross domestic product have proved no mean feat. Just ask Indonesia, Egypt or Nigeria.
 In Mr. van Agtmael's catch-all category of emerging markets, the few countries that have achieved lasting prosperity are the exceptional cases of South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore. They are all linked intimately to Japan and China, and to the United States. 
 ''Emerging Markets Century,'' however, adjusts the focus from countries to companies. Nearly 60 of Fortune magazine's top 500 global companies, Mr. van Agtmael underscores, are now based in emerging markets. This was unknown 15 years ago. But, he says, Samsung of South Korea, Infosys of India, Haier of China and Cemex of Mexico are not ''overnight wonders.''
 In selecting 25 top-performing companies in emerging markets, Mr. van Agtmael excludes government-owned behemoths that are world class in size but not in management, usually in natural resources, like Gazprom of Russia. But his is no tale of cheap labor, either. 
 Fourteen of his emerging-market multinationals specialize in high-technology or capital-intensive industries. They make profits the hard way: they innovate, competing on quality as well as price. Fourteen are in Asia and one is in Africa, but 10 can be found in Latin America.
 The text is not immune to business-book pap (''Vision is important but execution is paramount,'' the author writes, which lately might be rephrased as ''Forgetfulness is important but immunity is paramount.'') But it uses interviews and media reports to illuminate the impressive talent that operates in these companies, showing why they have been gobbling up established-market businesses.
 Most important, Mr. van Agtmael reveals the dynamism of South-South business -- by which he means the booming global commerce that is not centered on northern regions like the United States and Europe.
 The plane builder Embraer of Brazil, he notes, ''sells its regional jets in Saudi Arabia, India and China,'' providing southern counterparts not just value for money but also an alternative for those desperate not ''to be dependent exclusively on U.S. suppliers.'' CVRD, a leading iron ore producer based in Brazil, seeks to pre-empt Chinese dominance of Africa's resources, using Brazil's historical ties to that continent.
 But Mr. van Agtmael wonders whether CVRD will beat its Chinese competitors, or whether Embraer can manage to take on Boeing and Airbus. Unclear. 
 Tough marketplace challenges are the easy part. ''No matter how impressive many emerging multinationals may seem,'' Mr. van Agtmael notes, they ''still have to contend with political restrictions, stubborn and recalcitrant bureaucrats,'' and ''dysfunctional court systems.'' Given these obstacles, it is all the more impressive that the players he spotlights have been moving steadily up the value chain.
 He invokes a Darwinian winnowing, whereby 80 of the top 100 companies in the original Emerging Markets Index he created 25 years ago have vanished. Still, closing with tips on how to make money in emerging markets, he cautions that ''the real secret is that the secret is always changing.'' 
 Mr. Sauvy, the Frenchman, rightly observed that the ''exploited, scorned third world, like the third estate, wants to become something, too.'' Many third-world multinationals have. Many more seem likely to do so. But they have to be located somewhere.
 And when an emerging-market country implodes, as Russia did in 1998, it does so Enron-style, as if management -- a k a the government -- had been found to have perpetrated fraud, blindsiding even well-run companies.
 Ultimately, whether investors worried about volatility have more to fear from emerging markets or from today's developed markets remains to be seen. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A plane by Embraer demonstrates countermeasures to a missile attack. Embraer is based in the emerging market of Brazil. (Photo by Embraer, via Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TRENDS (76%); WRITERS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); LITERATURE (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); RELIGION (55%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Reviews; Books and Literature; Third World and Developing Countries

COMPANY: UNILEVER PLC/NV (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (55%); UNA (BIT) (55%); UNA (AMS) (55%); UN (NYSE) (55%); ULVR (LSE) (55%); UL (NYSE) (55%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: Antoine van Agtmael; Stephen Kotkin

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



112 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Local Forecast: Bad

BYLINE: By George R. Hendrey and Stephen Pekar. 
George R. Hendrey is a professor and Stephen Pekar is an assistant professor at the Queens College School of Earth and Environmental Science.

 BODY:
THE recent heavy storms that left downtown Manville, N.J., under 10 feet of water; filled the basements of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; and flooded rivers and downed power lines in Connecticut may have provided a glimpse of our future. Climate change is accelerating, and the prognosis for the region is alarming, as it is for the rest of the world. No matter how effectively we begin to curb our greenhouse-gas emissions now, we are destined to see significant climate changes because these gases remain in the atmosphere for a long time. We cannot delay planning for the environmental and human calamities that lie ahead. 
 All over the world, according to the 2007 scientific report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, ''it is very likely that hot extremes, heat waves and heavy precipitation events will continue to become more frequent.'' But we need look no further than our own backyard to find evidence of warming. Since 1950, average summer temperatures in New York City have increased by seven-tenths of a degree per decade, but for the last 20 years, by more than two degrees per decade. 
By the middle of this century, with both temperature and humidity rising, the regional climate will resemble that of today's Maryland, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists. And by 2100, if greenhouse-gas emissions continue to increase at the present rate, New York's heat index could resemble that of northern Georgia, with 60 or more days above 90 degrees and 25 days at over 100 (we now average just two days over 100 a year). 
 Average sea temperature off our coast has risen by more than two degrees since 1979, and by 2100 it will be four to eight degrees higher. These rising water temperatures will likely lead to stronger and more damaging storms. In 1954, when Hurricane Carol passed over Long Island and hit Connecticut, the tidal surge at New London was 10 feet high. Many scientists feel it is only a matter of time until a truly devastating hurricane makes a direct hit on New York, Connecticut and New Jersey.
 Nicholas K. Coch, a hurricane expert at Queens College, predicts that a Category 3 hurricane (the strength of Hurricane Katrina when it hit Louisiana) making landfall just west of the Hudson River Estuary would result in a greatly amplified storm surge, owing to the piling up of coastal waters in the almost right angle formed by the New Jersey and Long Island shores. Surge levels would rise to 20 feet at the Statue of Liberty and more than 26 feet in Jamaica Bay. This would cause extensive flooding of the New Jersey shore, Staten Island and Lower Manhattan, the Rockaways and Coney Island, southern Brooklyn, much of Queens, part of Long Island City and Astoria, and Flushing Meadows-Corona Park and continue on to the Westchester shore.
 Rising sea levels will only intensify such storm surges. In the past 100 years, while the global sea level has risen by four to eight inches, water levels in New York Harbor have risen by about a foot, and they are expected to rise five more inches by 2030. Without any controls on greenhouse-gas emissions, the sea level could rise as much as three and a half feet by 2080, Columbia University scientists estimate.
 These predictions and actual experience are already depressing property values in low-lying areas and making it more difficult for some homeowners in flood-prone areas to get insurance. As climate change progresses, the economic impact will only increase. 
 Facing up to climate-driven perils will require comprehensive regional planning. We might consider, for example, ceasing government payments for storm damage to buildings in flood zones. This would gradually reduce and ultimately eliminate housing from the shoreline in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. If we were to replace the housing with restored wetlands and woodland parks at the water's edge, it would help stabilize the coastline. New sea walls in Lower Manhattan might help protect the city from the high waves created by future hurricanes.
 We don't presume to know all of the precautions that will be required, nor their priority and timing, and no one else knows either. What is needed is an international institute, centered in New York, where leaders of the world's great cities along with urban planners, environmental scientists, economists and various other experts can put their knowledge together to prepare for future climate change. We must begin to imagine what may happen, and start investing now, to keep the region safe for this century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RIVERS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); CITIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); OCEANS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Floods

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%)

PERSON: George R (Prof) Hendrey; Stephen Pekar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



113 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2202 words

HEADLINE: The Guy Who Picks the Best Places to Live

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
EVERY so often, a report comes out listing the best (or worst) cities to live in, the most romantic, the most child-friendly or the most affordable.
 The cities at the top gloat; those at the bottom ignore the findings or dismiss them as skewed or irrelevant.
But in one part of the country, little changes. The man responsible for many of those rankings, Bert Sperling, continues to plug away, dividing his time between Portland and Depoe Bay, Ore., compiling yet more data for yet more lists, just as he has for the last 20 years.
 On Monday, the second edition of ''Cities Ranked & Rated: More Than 400 Metropolitan Areas Evaluated in the U.S. & Canada'' (Wiley Publishing), 850 pages that Mr. Sperling wrote with Peter Sander, will thud onto bookstore shelves. Gainesville, Fla. (No. 1) will be cheering, and Modesto, Calif. (No. 373) will be fuming. 
 But who is Bert Sperling? And what gives him the right, as he has done in previous surveys, to put Flower Mound, Tex., on the map as one of the most affordable places to live with children? Or Wenatchee, Wash., as one of the greenest cities in America? Or St. George, Utah, as the safest place to live?
 It is a lot of power for a man who started his career as an accountant and industrial engineer who just happens to enjoy writing computer software. One of his first programs was an early example of artificial intelligence that he wrote for the United States Tax Code for tax preparers.
 ''Before 1984, that sort of complex number-crunching was not available to the common person,'' Mr. Sperling said.
 Perhaps it was his early years as a Navy brat, moving from city to city, that got Mr. Sperling, 56, interested in the nature of where people live.
 ''I was born in Brooklyn, lived there for about a year, then in San Diego, then Oslo, Key West, Carmel,'' he said. Once he graduated from Oregon State University, though, in 1974, he stayed put in the Portland area.
 ''I was tired of moving all over,'' he said. 
 In 1984, he founded his own software company, Fast Forward, which he and his wife, Gretchen, still own. USA Today printed a piece about his research and data-collection methods; the editors of Money magazine liked what they saw, and a relationship was born in 1987 that continues to this day -- with a few breaks -- developing the magazine's ''best cities'' lists.
 This has blossomed into a virtual industry. There is Sperling's Best Places (bestplaces.net), where you can plug in any city and get a wealth of information. The site gets about 20,000 hits a day, he says. 
 Then there are the specific projects, for which he charges an array of clients $5,000 to $20,000, depending on the scope. For seven years he performed an annual study for Ladies' Home Journal on the best cities for women, and he still does a yearly study for Self magazine on the healthiest cities for women. 
 Then there are the companies, like Korbel, the California champagne maker, which commissioned Mr. Sperling to find the most romantic city (West Palm Beach, Fla.), or the Hartz Mountain Corporation, which makes pet supplies (and flea collars), and wanted to discover the most flea-ridden city (stay away from Hot Springs, Ark.). 
 Mr. Sperling also sells access to his database to companies like Yahoo, MSN and The Wall Street Journal.
 He does all this with the help of his wife and five researchers.
 The crux of his work is researching and ranking metropolitan statistical areas, and the first edition of ''Cities Ranked & Rated,'' written with Mr. Sander, was published in 2004.
 The Census Bureau estimates that about 39 million Americans, or 14 percent of the population, change addresses every year, and Mr. Sperling wants to help them choose the right place to land.
 He has developed a set of 10 broad categories into which he feeds an array of government statistics. The 10 are economy and jobs; cost of living; climate; education; health and health care; crime; transportation; leisure; arts and culture; and quality of life, which includes physical setting, downtown core, heritage and overall appearance.
 Points are assigned to each category and weighted. So some areas, like New York-White Plains (No. 251, down from No. 40 in 2004) may do very well in arts and culture, education and leisure, but may fail miserably in the economy and cost of living. Same with the California towns that score high in climate, leisure, and arts and culture, only to bomb in cost of living and transportation.
 The highest-ranked place in the New York City area is Bergen County, N.J. (No. 77), just below Pueblo, Colo., but just ahead of Madison, Wis. 
 The lists have shifted quite a bit over three years, and that, Mr. Sperling said, is because there have been changes in the information he uses and in the weight given to certain data. 
 For example, he said, three years ago people were much more focused on the state of the economy and the job base of particular cities. Now, housing affordability is of much greater concern, and Mr. Sperling has altered his rating system to reflect this. 
 That is partly why four California areas -- Modesto, Visalia-Porterville, Yuba City and Merced -- rank at the bottom of the latest list.
 ''California is a wonderful place to live, but housing is sky-high,'' Mr. Sperling said. ''What pushed them to the bottom was the high housing cost -- and you don't get great weather, no college towns, there's not much else to offset it.''
 Not that there is any family bias against California. The Sperlings' two grown sons live in Los Angeles (No. 93).
 Being No. 1 is not all it's cracked up to be. Charlottesville, Va., hit the top spot in the 2004 rankings, but slipped to No. 17 this year. Why? The median house price jumped from $177,000 to $345,000, and the cost of living more than doubled, to the highest in the state, the book says.
 What does Charlottesville think of the drop?
 ''Good!'' said Kathy Uriss, the director of information services for the Charlottesville Regional Chamber of Commerce.
 Of course, she appreciated all the people who mentioned the No. 1 ranking when they called for relocation packages -- especially those looking for places to retire. The president of the chamber was so proud, Ms. Uriss said, that she had bumper stickers made up that proclaimed, ''We're the No. 1 City in America.''
 ''We were proud and honored, but maybe things will come back to the ground,'' Ms. Uriss said. ''As housing prices have gotten out of hand, we've certainly seen a curtailing in the number of calls we're getting.''
 No. 17 suits her just fine, ''though I guess we'll have a lot of bumper stickers'' left over,'' she said. 
 Mr. Sperling feels the weight of his responsibility.
 ''The best places to live and retire are constantly evolving as we get feedback,'' he said. ''These studies are a snapshot, but some people take it as gospel. It's very important that they do their own research -- get local newspapers, stay in a place for at least a week.''
 Surprisingly, he said, cities at the bottom of the list don't send him hate mail. Oh, there was the time he did the survey on the cities that were the most fun for families, and New Orleans and Las Vegas took offense that they weren't on it. 
 They didn't seem to get the idea, Mr. Sperling said, that most families' idea of fun is ''not to lose money or take your top off.''
 Another time, an official from a small Southern city, ''which will remain nameless, said he had a problem with my crime statistics,'' Mr. Sperling said, adding that after a brief discussion, it turned out ''the numbers were right -- he just did not want them published.''
 But over all, he said, even the places at the bottom of the lists aren't too disgruntled.
 ''Anytime a town appears at the bottom -- like Tacoma was listed as one of the most stressful -- we're not telling them anything they don't already know,'' he said. ''City administrators say: 'This is how we're perceived. Let's use it as a learning tool.' ''
 Well, yes and no. Stockton, Calif., was relatively close to the bottom in the 2004 list of city rankings. 
 ''Sometimes it's giving us confirmation about what we already know,'' said Connie Cochran, Stockton's public information officer. ''Sometimes we think it's unfair.'' For example, she said, not all cities and states categorize crime statistics in the same way, so there may not be a direct correlation when doing comparisons.
 ''We know we have the best weather in the U.S., we're an earthquake-free zone and we're on the water'' -- the San Joaquin River,'' Ms. Cochran said. ''We just need to be better at sharing it.'' 
 Despite being somewhat dismissive of the list, she couldn't help expressing some glee when told that her California neighbor to the south, Modesto, was at the bottom this year. 
 Although Mr. Sperling may grab headlines for the rankings, his Web site is what is really useful for people planning a move, said Richard Florida, the Hirst professor of public policy at George Mason University, in Fairfax, Va. It offers various cost-of-living calculations, as well as information about schools and amenities, and allows users to take a quiz to help find the best place to live.
 ''You need information based on life stage, job and a cluster and bundle of amenities, such as schools, health care, culture,'' Professor Florida said, and Mr. Sperling ''tends to be good at assessing most, if not all, of that.''
 Thomas Wetzel, the president of the Retirement Living Information Center, a for-profit advisory service in Redding, Conn., says he sends people who are searching for places to retire to Mr. Sperling's site. ''I think it's the only one that does the comparisons people are looking for,'' he said. ''It's one tool to use.''
 Ranking cities using census, crime and other government statistics has some scientific basis. But judging the most romantic city?
 ''Like the best piece of art, it's very subjective,'' Mr. Sperling said. ''But using various surveys, we looked at what people think are romantic things to do such as a walk on the beach, or getting flowers. So we looked at sales figures for flowers given as gifts, at places with water nearby. Looking at a sunset is romantic, so you need non-overcast days. We looked at champagne sales.''
 He is even prouder of the survey on the most flea-ridden city.
 ''We knocked that one out of the park,'' he said. ''We looked at the life cycle of fleas, and how over a certain time of year there has to be a certain moisture and temperature range,'' he said. ''We looked at the sale of flea controls and powders.''
 Mr. Sperling travels quite a bit and has visited some of the cities that have ranked as the worst places to live. He said he was surprised that they did not seem very different from places much higher on the list.
 ''On the surface, you wouldn't know they are troubled,'' he said. ''Every town is someone's hometown.''
 He says he's always happy to go back to Portland (No. 3). 
 BELLINGHAM, WASH. -- The Salmon Toss is part of the annual Dirty Dan Days celebration.; NO. 3 PORTLAND, ORE. -- The city skyline seen from the opposite bank of the Willamette River.; NO. 4 COLORADO SPRINGS -- Residents near the Garden of the Gods park get an expansive view. (Photo by Tracy Wilcox/The Gainesville Sun); (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times); (Photo by Lisa Bauso for The New York Times); (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 1); NO. 5 ANN ARBOR, MICH. -- Houses overlooking the Huron River in the Barton Hills section of Ann Arbor. (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times); NO. 1 GAINESVILLE, FLA. -- The Florida Gators' mascots, Albert and Alberta. (Photo by Tracy Wilcox/The Gainesville Sun); NO. 2 BELLINGHAM, WASH. -- Part of the fishing fleet moored at Squalicum Harbor. (Photo by 
 Peter Yates for The New York Times
 ); NO. 3 PORTLAND, ORE. -- The city has lots of green mixed with its concrete. (Photo by 
 Lisa Bauso for The New York Times
 ); NO. 4 COLORADO SPRINGS -- Pikes Peak is the area's signature landmark. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times); MR. RANKING -- Bert Sperling in the office at his home in Portland. (Photo by Lisa Bauso for The New York Times)(pg. 12) Chart: ''The Current Crop of the Best Places for . . .'' Singles 1. New York 2. Los Angeles 3. Washington 4. Boston 5. San Francisco 6. Atlanta 7. Seattle 8. Chicago 9. Dallas 10. Philadelphia Young Couples 1. Portland, Ore. 2. Austin, Tex. 3. Boulder, Colo. 4. Seattle 5. San Diego 6. Minneapolis 7. Raleigh, N.C. 8. Denver 9. Madison, Wis. 10. Boise, Idaho Families With Children 1. Louisville, Colo. 2. Gaithersburg, Md. 3. Roswell, Ga. 4. Lakeville, Minn. 5. Flower Mound, Tex. 6. Fort Collins, Colo. 7. Cary, N.C. 8. Sugar Land, Tex. 9. Columbia, Md. 10. Noblesville, Ind. Empty Nesters 1. Bellingham, Wash. 2. Missoula, Mont. 3. Santa Fe, N.M. 4. Park City, Utah 5. Hood River, Ore. 6. Tucson 7. Oxford, Miss. 8. Lake Tahoe, Nev. 9. Nashua, N.H. 10. Berkeley, Calif. Retirees 1. Northampton, Mass. 2. St. George, Utah 3. Charlottesville, Va. 4. Fayetteville, Ark. 5. Gainesville, Fla. 6. Ashland, Ore. 7. Olympia, Wash. 8. Asheville, N.C. 9. Ithaca, N.Y. 10. Texas Hill Country (pg. 12) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: THIS YEAR'S NO. 1: GAINESVILLE, FLA. -- Sunset over Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park, about 10 miles south of Gainesville.
 NO. 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (90%); CITIES (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LITERATURE (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); ENGINEERING (69%); BOOKSTORES (68%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (64%); TAX LAW (64%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (50%) Urban Areas; Books and Literature; Ratings and Rating Systems

PERSON: Alina Tugend; Bert Sperling

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); ST GEORGE, UT, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Canada; New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



114 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front ; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: Not Hot Just Yet, But Newark Is Starting To Percolate

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 2 

 BODY:
You live where? 
 Such is the reaction that Ron Saleh and other new residents of this long-suffering city inevitably get when they tell friends they have moved here from New York, Hoboken or one of the region's manicured suburban bubbles.
But the question, frequently delivered with an expression that combines awe with disgust, is often followed by another: You pay how much?
 Mr. Saleh, 37, a public relations executive who most recently had addresses in Washington, Atlanta and Roosevelt Island, takes a certain pleasure in forcing Manhattan-centric friends to cross the Hudson, and watching their skepticism melt to envy as he shows off the smartly restored two-bedroom house he rents for $1,400 a month -- about $1,000 less than he would pay for a two-bedroom apartment in Manhattan.
 ''When they realize this is 20 minutes from Midtown and they see all the energy and all the hip people living here, they want to make the move, too,'' he said last Sunday as he mixed cocktails in his kitchen for a crowd of friends, most of them recent transplants like himself. ''It's not quite there yet, but Newark is about to get hot.'' 
 After four decades of economic stagnation and bad publicity, New Jersey's largest city -- stuck in the public imagination as a place of stolen cars, ailing public schools and a busy international airport -- is sprouting stylish new restaurants, art galleries and bars that dispense $10 cocktails. 
 A new indie music festival is expected to draw thousands to the heart of downtown next month, and city officials say that applications for 22 condominium projects have poured in since January, twice the number for all of 2006, with Shaquille O'Neal, Queen Latifah and Tiki Barber among those kicking around development proposals. 
 Though its struggle against blight and crime is hardly past, some residents say Newark is enjoying the kind of psychic rebirth that has helped transform scores of other downtrodden cities into nesting grounds for the young, the creative, and, with time, the well-heeled. Adjectives like bohemian and funky are increasingly tossed around, and even some skeptics are starting to believe in the moniker Newark adopted two decades ago: Renaissance City. 
 ''I think there's a growing sense that it's cool to live here,'' said Joseph Aratow, a real estate broker who has persuaded some of his deep-pocketed clients to give their vacant commercial property to gallery owners in the hope of encouraging more artists, and the people who love them, to migrate here. 
 Last month Mr. Aratow helped deliver -- rent free for at least a year -- a 30,000-square-foot furniture warehouse on Market Street to Rupert Ravens, a curator who will turn it into New Jersey's biggest gallery. Mr. Ravens, who helps coordinate the city's annual artist studio tour, dreams of a Newark Biennial to rival art extravaganzas in Berlin, Venice and Miami.
 ''This is the first time in my life I feel like I'm in the right place at the right time,'' he said. 
 To describe Newark as Chelsea-on-the-Passaic would, of course, be a bit hyperbolic; in many of the city's neighborhoods, ''funky'' is a generous euphemism for dandelion-choked lots, tumbledown houses and malodorous bodegas. Residents both new and old complain about shattered car windows, sparse population and the lack of decent shopping. 
 ''If you live downtown, you still have to drive to buy a banana,'' said Ade Sedita, who opened an arts supply store in the city in March. ''If you're comparing Newark to New York City, it's still a tough sell. That said, the opportunities here are endless for the right person.''
 After decades of depopulation since the 1967 riots, Newark has gained more than 10,000 residents in the past five years, including Jennifer Girardier, a Wall Street hedge fund broker, Rachel Robbins, an actress who moved here from California, and Ms. Robbins's husband, Michael Saltzman, an urban planner who is working on several local development projects. In a city whose residents are largely poor or working class and more than 70 percent minority, many of the new arrivals are white and upwardly mobile, though neither the Census Bureau nor city officials have demographics available on the newcomers. ''Sometimes I feel like I'm in a foreign country,'' said Ms. Robbins, a platinum blonde known for her impolitic humor. ''Let's just say we're pioneers on our block.''
 Last Sunday, Ms. Robbins and a racially diverse mix of two dozen newcomers and old-timers gathered in the courtyard of Mr. Saleh's home near Lincoln Park, sipping vodka tonics and dragging on Camel lights as a pair of Chihuahuas darted through their legs.
 Known as the Beach, Mr. Saleh's Cape Cod is the scene of frequent soirees that draw rehabilitated gang members, underemployed artists, investment bankers and members of Mayor Cory A. Booker's inner circle. 
 Many who were originally drawn here by the inexpensive housing say they have become gripped by a passion for the city's resurrection. ''I think all of us envision what Newark can be and we all feel we are the seeds of that change,'' said Mr. Saltzman, 36, who bought a three-family house near Lincoln Park five years ago that has since doubled in value. 
 A dozen blocks south of the park on Halsey Street, a low-rise neighborhood that once teemed with small shops now is largely forlorn after nightfall. But boosters have rechristened the area Halsey Village, and city planning officials say five new restaurants are on the way along with 650 condo and rental units. 
 Ms. Sedita, the owner of Newark Art Supply, imagines the area as New Jersey's version of the East Village, its raggedy brownstones full of artists, office workers and students from Rutgers, Seton Hall Law School and the New Jersey Institute of Technology. On June 9, the first annual Newark Arts and Music Festival will try its luck along Halsey Street.
 David Anstatt, one of the festival organizers, said he thought the time was right to capitalize on the emerging buzz about his new home. 
 ''I think people finally realize Newark is more than just about crime and drugs,'' said Mr. Anstatt, who is an owner of 27 Mix, one of the city's new high-end restaurants. ''Everyone here feels like the city is going to pop in five years.''
 That popping sound can already be heard around the corner at 1180 Raymond Boulevard, where Cogswell Realty is almost finished carving 317 rental units out of an Art Deco beauty that was once the city's most prominent office tower. Arthur Stern, Cogswell's chief executive, boasts that more than 80 percent of the tenants, most in their 20s and 30s, work in New York City, suggesting that Newark is drawing refugees priced out of Manhattan and Brooklyn. 
 Many people peg the city's nascent resurgence to the inauguration of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in 1997, followed by the opening of a baseball stadium for the Newark Bears, though the minor-league team has never drawn the crowds boosters hoped. While a drop in crime and New York's soaring real estate prices have helped polish the city's appeal, some say the spirit of change was enhanced by last year's election of Mr. Booker after two decades of rule by Sharpe James, who is under investigation by state and federal authorities. 
 Steve Iglesias, an entrepreneur born and raised here, says the overhaul at City Hall helped persuade him to turn his family's sporting goods store in the Ironbound section into a tapas lounge that has become a popular draw for locals who used to trek to Manhattan for designer meals and late-night revelry. 
 ''There's a feeling here of endless possibilities, and a lot of that has to do with Booker,'' he said one recent Saturday night, as a D. J. played a medley of music from the 1970s and 80s. ''At this point, if you build it, they will come.''
 The heavily Portuguese and Brazilian Ironbound, with its low crime rate, teeming commercial corridor and proximity to New York-bound trains, has become relatively expensive, and that has been a boon to nearby Lincoln Park on the other side of the tracks. 
 The young and the intrepid have been filling up a smattering of renovated buildings near the 19th century greensward named for President Lincoln, which was once known for its constellation of jazz clubs but is now dominated by a string of drug-treatment facilities. 
 The city's oldest gallery, City Without Walls, forms the nucleus of the enclave, which includes apartments inside a former carriage factory and a graphic design studio, Tritonic, whose three young partners are the toast of Newark's corporate and political set. Although the neighborhood is decidedly edgy -- balloons tied to a stretch of fencing mark the most recent homicide -- three dozen ''green'' lofts and town houses are just coming on the market. The Lincoln Park Coast Cultural District, as its promoters call it, will ultimately be anchored by a Smithsonian-affiliated Museum of African-American Music. 
 ''The amazing thing is that we never have to advertise our apartments; they just rent by word of mouth,'' said Tony Gibbons, a real estate developer who, along with two partners, is turning the former McCarter mansion that faces the park into a lavishly appointed home for foundations and nonprofit groups. 
 For now, Mr. Saleh's house is the most happening spot in town. 
 A White House aide during the Clinton Administration who learned the art of hospitality working for Club Med, Mr. Saleh's gatherings are part salon, part bacchanal, with revelers, goblets in hand, vying for seats last Sunday on the oversized lifeguard chair that dominates his tiny backyard. 
 As guests nibbled Gouda and tossed around a giant rubber ball, the sinking sun cast a pinkish glow on the Colleoni, a stately apartment building facing Lincoln Park that is being turned into luxury rentals. In the foreground, a pack of stray cats roughhoused in the debris of a vacant lot, and a few paces away, recently paroled felons did pull-ups in the yard of their halfway house. At one point, Mayor Booker's father sauntered through as hip-hop music blared from living room. 
 Day turned to night, someone called out for another cocktail, and nobody seemed to notice as a hungry cat howled and the halfway house residents, perhaps stirred up by the party on the other side of the fence, shouted at one another, their voices filled with joy. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: From top: a party at Ron Saleh's home near Lincoln Park
Rupert Ravens, left, a curator, with Joseph Aratow, a real estate broker, at 85 Market Street, once a furniture store, and soon to be an art gallery. At left, more high-end restaurants like 27 Mix on Halsey Street are coming to Newark. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 37)
An art gallery will soon fill this space at 85 Market Street in Newark. The city has gained more than 10,000 residents in the past five years.
 Customers at 27 Mix on a recent Friday night. David Anstatt, a 27 Mix owner, says, ''Everyone here feels like the city is going to pop in five years.'' (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 40) Map of Newark highlighting planned renovations and buildings currently under construction. (pg. 40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); FESTIVALS (66%); TRENDS (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); AIRPORTS (50%); MUSIC (50%) Restoration and Rehabilitation; Area Planning and Renewal; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (50%) Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



115 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2193 words

HEADLINE: Where Are All The Black Swans?

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

 BODY:
IN 1933 Lincoln Kirstein wrote a passionate 16-page letter to his friend A. Everett Austin Jr., the director of the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, introducing a man named George Balanchine and a dream: to remake ballet for America. The plan, as Kirstein wrote, was to have ''four white girls and four white boys, about 16 years old, and eight of the same, negros.'' 
 What resulted from that letter -- the School of American Ballet and New York City Ballet, both founded by Kirstein and Balanchine -- have endured as major cultural institutions. But Kirstein's plan for student diversity was never realized, and while other minorities have made inroads in classical ballet, the complicated reality of racial inequality persists, especially for black women.
Because male dancers have always been in short supply, black men have attained some success, the most famous being Arthur Mitchell, who was a principal dancer at New York City Ballet before founding Dance Theater of Harlem in 1969 with Karel Shook. But there has never been a black female principal in the ranks of American Ballet Theater or City Ballet. 
 Currently Ballet Theater has one black female dancer, Misty Copeland, a member of the corps de ballet. Since the departure of Aesha Ash in 2003, City Ballet has had none. Last week Ms. Ash, a member of Alonzo King's San Francisco company Lines Ballet, returned to New York to perform at the Joyce Theater in an engagement that ends on Sunday.
 The first -- and until recently, only -- black woman promoted to the rank of principal at a major American company was Lauren Anderson of Houston Ballet, then directed by Ben Stevenson. ''It seems like what matters is if you have a director or a choreographer who has the guts to do it,'' Ms. Anderson, who retired in 2006, said by phone from Houston, where she is now an outreach associate in the company's education department. ''But why should it take guts? It's art, it's ballet, it's dance and it's for everyone.''
 It was devastating when Mr. Mitchell's Dance Theater of Harlem went on hiatus in 2004 because of financial problems, but at least it looked as if some of his female dancers would be given an opportunity to join major classical companies. That seemed particularly true of Alicia J. Graf, but she was hired by Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater in late 2005 after being turned down by City Ballet and Ballet Theater.
 Tai Jimenez was the only Dance Theater member to make a successful transition to a prominent ballet company. After freelancing and being turned down by both major New York companies, she joined Boston Ballet, led by Mikko Nissinen, as a principal, though chronic injuries have forced her to step down.
 ''I got only about a year and a half out of her, but she went out in an amazing way, dancing the lead in Balanchine's 'Midsummer Night's Dream,' '' Mr. Nissinen said. ''As an artistic director you seldom bring somebody in who is 35, but my reasoning was that she represented what a mature ballerina is with a really ideal work ethic. I have an up-and-coming generation of very talented ladies, and I wanted them to have an example of what it means to be professional.''
 Ms. Jimenez credits Mr. Nissinen with being a director who aspires to have a diverse company. But while many company leaders express that desire, few have acted on it, partly because there is a shallow pool from which to choose. In response to interview requests American Ballet Theater, led by Kevin McKenzie, said in a statement: ''Overall, more than 40 percent of A.B.T.'s roster has been trained outside the U.S. We think these numbers speak to the larger issue of access to quality ballet training in the U.S., regardless of racial background.''
 Certainly it is impossible to speak of the makeup of companies without looking at the schools that feed them. A Ballet Theater spokeswoman, Kelly Ryan, said there were ''long-range plans in development for training students at all levels'' at the company's new Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School, but she declined to elaborate. There are two black students at the school, one male and one female.
 At the School of American Ballet, where this year the age of potential students has been lowered to 6 from 8 in an effort to attract a broader applicant pool, Annette Burgess, director of projects, said there had been an increase in minority students since the school started holding community auditions in 1998. The next round will take place on May 17 (in Chinatown), May 19 (in Brooklyn and Queens) and May 20 (in the Bronx and Harlem). Unlike auditions at the school, to be held during the next three weeks for children 6 to 10 who pay a $25 fee, community auditions are free. 
 Since the 1998-99 season minority enrollment in the children's division of the school has risen to 22 percent, from 13 percent. (The school's figures don't differentiate among minority groups.) But in the advanced division there is just one black female student. Marjorie Van Dercook, the school's executive director, said: ''That gets to the City Ballet issue. We're their academy, so what you see on the stage is reflected by what you see in the school.''
 Nearly 70 percent of the dancers who join City Ballet come from the school's highly competitive summer program for 12-to-18-year-olds, which mainly attracts dancers from outside New York. Here the number of minority candidates drops considerably from that 22 percent in the children's division. Ms. Burgess said there weren't many minority applicants at School of American Ballet auditions around the country, even in Chicago and Detroit. 
 The reason there are few black students to choose from is complex. For Virginia Johnson, a former star of Dance Theater of Harlem and the editor of Pointe magazine, the disparity stems from three issues: artistic vision, economics -- ballet is expensive and competitive among women no matter their skin color -- and culture.
 ''It's hard to be the only black dancer,'' she said. ''You feel separate, and you feel negated in a certain sense, and it's not that people are trying to make you feel bad, but it's just obviously around you. Everyone else can bond by similarity, and you have to make an effort, and making an effort makes you wonder, 'Am I not being true to myself?' It's hard to be strong enough to be in that environment and to not feel wrong.''
 That sense of alienation contributed to Ms. Ash's decision to leave City Ballet after seven years. ''It was very difficult,'' she said. ''I fought my way through the school, and I felt like I continued fighting through the company -- fighting with the image that I had of myself.''
 Ms. Ash, an enormously gifted dancer who performed many prominent parts, never progressed past the corps de ballet. After her father died, she said, she asked Peter Martins, the company's ballet master in chief, for a short leave of absence. ''He actually encouraged me to leave the company, because, in so many words, he told me that he didn't see me really doing any more than what I was doing at City Ballet, period,'' she said. ''Had I not been dealing with all the personal things in my life, I would have just been like: 'Oh yeah? Watch.' But at that time I was so dead.''
 Ken Tabachnick, City Ballet's general manager, speaking for Mr. Martins, responded in an e-mail message, ''In terms of Aesha Ash, Peter feels that his discussions with dancers are confidential, and he would prefer to not betray that confidence by commenting.'' He added, ''Ms. Ash's career was a typical one for an N.Y.C.B. dancer, the majority of whom spend most of their careers here in the corps de ballet.''
 But Ms. Ash made more of an impact than most. During her final season she ran into a young, black female student on the plaza of Lincoln Center. The student said, ''I admire you so much, and I'm so happy you're out there,'' Ms. Ash recalled, ''and I said, 'I'm actually leaving the company.' She started crying. But then she said: 'It's O.K. You can be satisfied with what you've done. And you can leave.' That was huge.''
 Ms. Graf, in her quest for a job, took an open class at Ballet Theater (she said she was told that at 5 feet 10 inches she was too tall) and sent a package of photographs and reviews to City Ballet. ''I got a response saying that there weren't any open positions,'' she said of City Ballet. Then she auditioned for Ailey. ''It wasn't all that devastating,'' she said. ''I wanted to work with one of the top companies, and Ailey worked out. That was the best thing that could have ever happened to me.'' 
 To Ms. Johnson of Pointe magazine Ms. Graf's inability to secure a job with either New York City Ballet or American Ballet Theater was disappointing. ''Alicia would be amazing at either one of those companies.''
 Ms. Johnson said the reluctance of ballet companies to recruit black ballerinas of Ms. Graf's caliber had more to do with vision than with talent. ''On one side of the marketing issue it's tremendously fantastic what they could do with having Alicia as a ballerina,'' she said. ''But on another side, the side that they're much more afraid of, is their whole subscriber base and their whole history of being a ballet company the way you thought ballet was. It means that you have to create a kind of trust, and they've never challenged their audiences to move forward.''
 In Ms. Graf's case, ''the timing wasn't right for them to say, 'Here's our chance,' '' she continued. ''Of course I regret that they didn't. She's fabulous at Ailey, but she's also wasted at Ailey. She's bigger than Ailey.''
 Without principal dancers at major American companies, Ms. Johnson and others maintain, young black students have no role models. Dancers of an older generation, like Delores Browne, who trained with Marion Cuyjet in Philadelphia and performed with the New York Negro Ballet in the 1950s, see a lack of patience among young dancers.
 ''We thought that our struggle would encourage the next generation coming along, but what it did was discourage them,'' Ms. Browne said. ''The people who admired us and thought we were gifted looked at themselves and said: 'I can go to Broadway. I can go to a modern-dance company. I can go to Europe. I'm not going to bother.' I actually had a young woman say that to me, and I was heartbroken.''
 On a deeper level many black dancers suggest that a primary obstacle is stereotyping. Black women are perceived as being forceful, which doesn't square with the ethereal image of a ballerina. Raven Wilkinson, who joined the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in the mid-1950s, encountered devastating racism while on tour with the company in the Deep South, including incidents with the Ku Klux Klan. 
 ''I have wondered if women have a harder time because ballet, as Balanchine said, is woman,'' Ms. Wilkinson said. ''That purity, that sense of leaving the earth and the romantic sense of being on point is the idea of the woman on the pedestal. Whereas the black woman is seen as more earthy and as dancing solidly.'' 
 This seems to be of little consequence in Europe, where black ballet dancers have found more success, including Ms. Wilkinson. When she couldn't find work in America, she joined the Dutch National Ballet in the Netherlands.
 In an article, ''Glorifying the American Woman: Josephine Baker and George Balanchine,'' Beth Genne, an associate professor of dance studies at the University of Michigan, makes a strong case that Ms. Baker was Balanchine's first American muse. Ms. Genne writes, ''It could very well be that Baker's long legs and lithe body not only fit Balanchine's ideal but also helped to create it.'' 
 What's confusing about the rejection of Ms. Graf by City Ballet is that she is a Balanchine archetype: long legs, with a silky, harmonious line and plasticity. Ms. Graf views the question ''Why don't companies hire black dancers?'' as outdated. ''We have to change the paradigm now,'' she said, ''and I think that in order to do that we have to challenge companies to make it a priority to diversify their roster, and not just to do an outreach or bus in some kids and expose them to dance. The companies, as a business tool, have to go into communities where dance is not present to expose and train dancers.''
 That's what Mr. Mitchell set out to do when he formed Dance Theater of Harlem. While the company remains on hiatus (performances continue through the organization's Dancing Through Barriers Ensemble), the school still functions, directed by Endalyn Taylor, a former Dance Theater member. But without a company to aspire to, Ms. Taylor said, the situation ''is really challenging and really sad.''
 ''My mind always goes back to the days when there was a company.'' she added. ''I remember the students looking in the doorway, watching us. Being the role models for them made it a lot easier.''
 In the end Ms. Taylor is hopeful that aspiring black ballerinas will realize that the fight is worth it. ''I think our job as instructors and motivators and role models is to let dancers know that it's still possible,'' she said. ''It may not be the easiest road, but if you love to do it, you have to go for it.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a picture on the cover of Arts & Leisure today of the dancer Aesha Ash, with an article about the small number of black ballerinas in classical troupes, appears in mirror image.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aesha Ash, right, is a member of Alonzo King's Lines Ballet, a San Francisco company. She was in the corps of New York City Ballet but left in 2003
since then the company has had no black women. (Photo by Marty Sohl)(pg. 1)
Tai Jimenez, left, was the only Dance Theater of Harlem alumna to find a job in a major classical company, Boston Ballet, where she danced until injuries forced her to step down. Far left, Raven Wilkinson, was a member of Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in the 1950s.
Misty Copeland and Herman Cornejo of American Ballet Theater in ''Glow-Stop.'' Ms. Copeland, a member of the corps de ballet, is the only black woman in the company.
Lauren Anderson in Houston Ballet's production of ''Don Quixote,'' choreographed by Ben Stevenson. Ms. Anderson was the first black woman to be a principal dancer in a major American company. (Photo by Maurice Seymour)
(Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
(Photo by Gene Schiavone)
 (Photo by Jim Caldwell)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (93%); DANCERS (91%); DANCE EDUCATION (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE (90%); MEN (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); WOMEN (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%) Dancing; Blacks; Minorities (US)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (90%) School of American Ballet

PERSON: Gia Kourlas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



116 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Sifting Through the Ruins of Infidelity

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
THE client said all he got was a massage, the kind that comes from an escort service and costs about $300.
 The owner of the escort service maintains all she offered was sexual fantasy, the kind that prompts a federal prosecution for running a prostitution ring.
 In the latest sex scandal from the nation's capital, the efforts to gloss over a sexual encounter failed to spare one of the first exposed: Randall L. Tobias, 65, who is married. Mr. Tobias, a top foreign aid adviser in the State Department, was listed on the phone records of Deborah Jeane Palfrey's ''high-end erotic fantasy service.'' He denied he had sex with prostitutes, and then he quit his job, which entailed requiring foreign recipients of AIDS funds to condemn prostitution.
 As more names in Ms. Palfrey's circle begin to trickle out (she says she needs her powerful clients to prove she did nothing illegal), she may cause more shame and may ruin more careers. But outside the public glare, what about all the wives and girlfriends of those receiving massages? In that case, is an erotic massage, or sex with a prostitute, as much of a threat to a marriage or relationship? 
 ''What I coach my clients to consider is, what is cheating and what is the ranking order of the violation to their agreement as a couple?'' said Patti Britton, president of the American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists. ''They may consider it cheating or not.''
 She added: ''Is an erotic massage sex? What is sex? The Bill Clinton question of all time.''
 Many of those who have been cheated on say there's no such thing as ranking when it comes to infidelity. Having sex with a prostitute. Sleeping with the nanny, a co-worker or a neighbor. Getting a massage from a naked masseuse. Touching the naked masseuse. 
 Those nuances seem to escape users of survivinginfidelity.com, a site for the betrayed that recently featured a posting by a woman who wrote that her boyfriend had just being arrested at a massage parlor with a prostitute.
 ''I slapped him several times,'' the woman wrote. ''Then I kicked him out.''
 Another user replied: ''My opinion is to keep him kicked out and thank your lucky stars'' you are not married to him.
 At the heart of the matter, those commiserating with the woman said, were the lying, the betrayal of trust and even the risk of getting a sexually transmitted disease. But couples' therapists and other experts say many mates make allowances when it comes to impersonal, anonymous, businesslike sex (or almost sex). A tryst for pay, for example, may be more forgivable than a long affair or emotional infidelity, such as the kind carried on by e-mail and instant messaging.
 ''It's the idea of having an emotional or intellectual mind meld over the long term that's hardest to recover from,'' said Carrie Sloan, the editor in chief of Tango, a magazine on relationships. 
 A woman, 55, who is a loan officer in Kansas forgave her husband of 18 years after an affair of three months with a woman in her town, but said that she would have much preferred that he had hired a sex worker. It took her almost two years, she said, to believe him when he said that he wasn't in love with the other woman.
 ''With a prostitute I wouldn't have to get over that,'' said the woman, who was not identified to protect personal details of her marriage. ''I'd ask him what more would he desire sexually as opposed to 'Are you in love?' ''
 Another woman, 40, who is a secretary in Detroit, said her two-year marriage broke up largely over her husband's affairs with co-workers and women he met at business conventions. She agreed that a single night with a prostitute would have been easier to accept. At least that, she said, could be chalked up to ''a momentary lapse.''
 ''An affair involves more lying and more manipulation,'' said the woman, who was not identified to protect her privacy.
 But the secretary said that now, six years after her divorce, she would not tolerate any cheating. ''Now I'm like, 'If you really want to go out and cheat, let's end it,' '' she said. 
 Pamela Druckerman, the author of ''Lust in Translation,'' about the global rules of infidelity, said that men cheat more than women worldwide. But while Japanese men who pay for sex may consider the practice purely recreational -- rather than a firing offense -- Americans try to find acceptable excuses for the cheating. 
 ''He could blame sexual addiction, that you can't control yourself,'' Ms. Druckerman said.
 Men know they are cheating when they pay for sex, but ''there's a lot of rationalization that goes on,'' said Russell J. Stambaugh, a clinical psychologist in Ann Arbor, Mich., who has helped patients deal with the issue. Some men believe they are entitled to sex with many women because of biological needs or because their partner doesn't satisfy them in bed, Dr. Stambaugh said. 
 Marie H. Browne, a marriage therapist in Westfield, N.J., who treats couples struggling with infidelity, said that in cases where men engage prostitutes while out of town, ''they often feel it's very private. It's not hurting anyone.''
 But there are consequences. Once caught, therapists say, men can succeed in saving their relationships only if they are penitent.
 ''It's harder to forgive if he says, 'You've gained 50 pounds, what do you expect?' '' said Dr. Browne,who was an author for the book ''You Can't Have Him, He's Mine: A Woman's Guide to Affair-Proofing Her Relationship.''
 Public humiliation can hamper healing, and it is not only high-powered men in Washington who risk widespread exposure. To deter the use of prostitutes, so-called ''johns laws'' nationwide resort to arrests and public shame, including posting pictures on local government sites.
 Some places have gone the way of San Francisco, which offers a rehabilitation program to first offenders to reduce recidivism. Replicated in more than two dozen locations, the ''john school'' confronts participants with the effects of their actions, including testimony from ex-prostitutes and information about venereal disease. 
 Norma Hotaling, a former prostitute, runs the Standing Against Global Exploitation Project, which helps prostitutes, and helped found the First Offender Prostitution Program with the San Francisco Police Department and the district attorney's office. She said most participants are younger than 35, married and have a degree.
 ''They have a very healthy sense of denial,'' she said. ''They blame the people they're in relationships with. 'My girlfriend won't do this. My wife is a bitch.' '' 
 As Ms. Palfrey exposes her clients -- according to ABC News, the list has thousands of phone numbers, including those of a Bush administration economics official and assorted lobbyists -- advocates like Ms. Hotaling say the names should be released. Protecting patrons only leads to more sexual exploitation, she said.
 ''Prostitution is about lying,'' Ms. Hotaling said. ''It's not about people liking each other. It's living a double life.''
 ''They go home and have dinner with their families and everything is normalized,'' she said of prostitution clients. ''Let's put it all out there.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: NAMES AND FACES -- Deborah Jeane Palfrey, who ran an escort service in Washington, outside a federal courthouse. (Photo by Paul Hubble/Polaris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (92%); MASSAGE SERVICES (89%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (78%); SEX EDUCATION (77%); SEX SCANDALS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); AIDS & HIV (75%); MARRIAGE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); COUPLE COUNSELING (75%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); ARRESTS (50%) Prostitution; Law and Legislation; Escort Services

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%) Mireya Navarro; Deborah Jeane Palfrey

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



117 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths ADAMS, REVEREND DR. ANN BAMFORD

 BODY:
 ADAMS--Reverend Dr. Ann Bamford, longtime Associate Minister at the Wellesley Hills Congregational Church, in Wellesley Massachusetts, died early Thursday morning at the age of 52. She had battled bravely against cancer for two and a half years. Dr. 
Adams served her community both in her pastoral role at the Hills Church, and also, with great advocacy and conviction, served on the board of the Wellesley Housing Authority, connecting deeply with tenants of Wellesley's public housing. She was still active on the Housing Authority at the time of her death. She was active in numerous church and civic organizations, including the Boston City Mission Society and as a Director of the Massachusetts Conference of the United Church of Christ. Known for the freshness, candor, and great faith of her original prayers, Adams reached out well beyond the Wellesley community through her website Prayerswork.com which offered a daily prayer, and a blog which chronicled her life with cancer with a humor and endurance that encouraged many cancer patients across the country and the world. Many of these prayers have been collected in her book Prayer At Work (Chapel Place Press). Adams leaves her son, Thomas Craig Bailey Adams, and her husband, Reverend Craig B. Adams, of Otisfield, Maine. The Rev. Mr. Adams, is Minister Emeritus of the Wellesley Hills Congregational Church. In addition to her son, Adams is survived by her father, Richard Bamford and stepmother Dee Bamford of Connecticut. Adams mother, Mary, predeceased her daughter. Adams is also survived by a brother, Benjamin Bamford, and sister, Jane Bamford Kennedy, her aunt Cynthia Adams Johnson, and stepdaughter Catherine Jordan and her family, and stepson Martin Adams and his family. Adams was born on October 11, 1954 and moved many times as a child, graduating from E.O. Smith High School in Storrs, Connecticut in 1972. Adams graduated from Wellesley College with the class of 1976, Phi Beta Kappa, with a degree in Economics. She continued her education at Yale, graduating in the first class of Yale's School of Management in 1978. Adams was working in the investment community in New York City when she felt called to ministry. She earned her M. Div and D. Min. at Andover Newton Theological School and served at the Wellesley Hills Church in Wellesley, Massachusetts, for over 19 years. Additionally, Adams served as Interim Associate Minister at Hancock United Church of Christ, in Lexington, and at Babson College, in Wellesley, where she was Protestant Chaplain. Despite her grave illness, Adams delivered the eulogy for legendary economist Carolyn Shaw Bell, who was memorialized at Wellesley College, this past January. Bell had been Adams' advisor while studying at the College. In lieu of flowers, gifts may be made to the ''Ann Adams Revocable Trust'' and sent to Miriam T. Dever, Trustee, 11 Class Street, West Roxbury, MA 02132. A memorial service will take place at the Wellesley Hills Congregational Church in Wellesley at 1 pm on Monday, May 7th, following a private committal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CANCER (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); STEPPARENTS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (66%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (62%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



118 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; SCHOOL FINANCING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
DESPITE record increases in state aid for next school year, most districts on Long Island and in other New York City suburbs have also proposed property tax increases well over the inflation rate. District officials say they are handcuffed by big annual increases in teachers' salaries and the rising costs of pensions and health insurance, as well as higher energy prices.
 Nassau and Suffolk Counties are to get a total of $220 million more in state aid from Gov. Eliot Spitzer's 2007-8 budget, which was passed by the Legislature on April 1, an increase of 10.1 percent. Westchester will get $49 million more, a 9.4 percent increase. 
But the districts say that is nowhere near enough: On Long Island, officials have asked for $300 million more in additional property tax levies to meet their costs, a 4.7 percent tax increase over 2006-7. In Westchester, the districts have proposed 5.6 percent increases on average, for another $104 million.
 Residents will vote on the proposed budgets on May 15, and school officials expressed confidence that most would pass. Last year, when the average increase was higher, more than 80 percent were approved.
 The burden of additional taxes will fall much harder on some taxpayers than others: A few districts in the region that received especially large grants of state aid are proposing little or no increase in taxes. The Sachem Central School District in Suffolk County, which proposed an 18 percent increase two years ago, only to see its budget rejected twice, has proposed a budget that would result in a drop in tax levies.
 ''Whatever monies we got from the state we applied to tax relief,'' said Bruce H. Singer, Sachem's assistant superintendent for business.
 In the Uniondale School District, which received more than $6 million in new money, district officials said they could have spent some of it without raising complaints but decided to dedicate it all to tax relief. The district proposed no increase in taxes.
 ''We decided to be prudent, to have a strong educational commitment without an adverse impact on the taxes the community pays,'' said Kenneth W. Rodgers, the assistant superintendent for business. ''We could have added two or three million to the budget and people wouldn't have noticed.''
 Many districts said they applied at least some of their new state aid to tax reduction. But most said they did not get enough from the state to make much of a dent in their fast-rising costs.
 In the Patchogue-Medford School District, the school board has proposed a 13 percent tax increase to help pay off a deficit from the last several years that was the focus of a scathing report by the state comptroller last month.
 ''We had to borrow $6 million this year to pay off the deficit,'' said Gene W. Levenstien, the interim assistant superintendent for business in Patchogue-Medford. 
 The district also took $2 million from a bond issue for operating expenses last year, Mr. Levenstien said. Even with $4.7 million in new aid, the district has proposed raising the tax levy by $10 million.
 ''It's catch-up,'' he said. ''Starting next year we will not be having this conversation, I hope.''
 In all, 132 of the 156 districts on Long Island and in Westchester that reported tax levy proposals to the state last month are asking for increases greater than 3 percent. Inflation over the last year has been about 3.25 percent, and the state budget projects inflation over the next year to be 2.2 percent.
 Tax activists, however, complained that the school districts should have shown more discipline.
 ''For the last 27 years, enrollment hasn't grown, but on average the tax increase has been 70 percent more than inflation,'' said Frank Russo of the Port Washington Educational Assembly. ''It's not a question of whether it comes from state aid or property taxes, it's the spending that's out of control.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: MONEY TALKS -- Gov. Eliot Spitzer, his budget director, Paul E. Francis, by his side, speaking in Albany in late March. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX INCREASES (91%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); TAX LAW (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%) Education and Schools; Taxation; Property Taxes; Finances; Wages and Salaries; Teachers and School Employees; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%) Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



119 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; AROUND WESTCHESTER: SCHOOL FINANCING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
IN spite of record increases in state aid for next school year, most districts in Westchester and other New York City suburbs have proposed property tax increases well above the rate of inflation. District officials say they are handcuffed by big annual increases in teachers' salaries and the rising cost of pensions, health insurance and energy.
 Westchester is to get $49 million more in state aid -- an increase of 9.4 percent -- in Gov. Eliot Spitzer's 2007-8 budget, which was passed by the State Legislature on April 1. Nassau and Suffolk Counties will get $220 million more in state aid, an increase of 10.1 percent. 
But the districts say that is nowhere near enough: In Westchester, officials have asked for $122 million more in property taxes to meet their costs, an increase of 5.6 percent. On Long Island, the districts have proposed another $300 million in property taxes, a 4.7 percent increase over 2006-7.
 Residents will vote on the proposed budgets on May 15, and school officials expressed confidence that most would pass. Last year, when the average increase was higher, more than 80 percent in the region were approved.
 The burden of additional taxes will fall much harder on some taxpayers than others: A few districts in the region that received especially large grants of state aid are proposing little or no increase in taxes. The Sachem Central School District on Long Island, which proposed an 18 percent increase two years ago, only to see its budget rejected twice, has proposed a budget that would result in a drop in taxes.
 ''Whatever monies we got from the state, we applied to tax relief,'' said Bruce H. Singer, Sachem's assistant superintendent for business.
 In North Salem, the interim superintendent, Sidney A. Freund, applied a budget surplus from last year to bring the tax increase in the district to 1.3 percent, the lowest in Westchester. The district also used a small increase in state aid to reduce taxes. 
 ''I didn't go back to my board and say let's spend it,'' Dr. Freund said. ''It's being used to provide tax relief.''
 In Mamaroneck, the school district received only a small increase in state money under the formula for next year. The board has proposed a 6.7 percent tax increase.
 ''A lot of the increase is in mandated costs, contractual salary increases, special education,'' said Joan Rosen, the district's public information director.
 In all, 132 of the 156 districts in Westchester and on Long Island that have reported tax proposals to the state are asking for increases of more than 3 percent. Inflation over the last year has been about 3.25 percent, and the state budget projects inflation over the next year to be 2.2 percent.
 In Eastchester, where state aid rose more than $500,000, the school board put the additional money into a rainy day fund instead of reducing the tax bill. The superintendent, Robert C. Siebert, has proposed raising taxes by $2.8 million.
 ''The board decided, on my recommendation, to reserve the additional money for next year to hold down next year's tax levy,'' he said.
 But many districts said they had applied at least some of their state aid to tax reduction, although in Westchester, that did not make much of a dent in fast-rising costs.
 Some superintendents said they see little or no possibility that tax increases will fall within the rate of inflation any time soon, even with increasing state aid.
 ''We can't cut back on a lot of things unless people are prepared to accept a lower standard,'' said Howard W. Smith, the superintendent of the Tarrytowns school district, where the budget calls for a 6.4 percent increase in the tax levy. ''If you want teachers with talent and ambition and drive, you have to give them an opportunity to make more money every year.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: MONEY TALK -- Gov. Eliot Spitzer speaking in March in Albany. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Wages and Salaries; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Teachers and School Employees

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



120 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Blair, Whose Tenure Began in a Blaze of Glory, Prepares for a More Subdued Exit

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON, May 5 

 BODY:
It began with an effusive exuberance as Britain's Labor party came in from 18 years of opposition in 1997 in a landslide won by a bright and young politician called Tony Blair. Nothing seemed impossible. He spoke of a new dawn. The party's campaign song declared, ''Things can only get better.''
 Now, a decade later, as Mr. Blair prepares to leave office burdened by an unpopular war and down in the ratings, the song seems off key. In the eyes of some of his critics, things have not gotten better. And they might be about to get worse.
Mr. Blair's departure -- he is expected to announce the schedule for his last weeks in office on Thursday -- has been undermined by a seismic shift in British politics. The separatist Scottish National Party defeated Labor, emerging as Scotland's biggest party in regional elections on May 3 and ending a half-century of Labor's dominance there. In Wales, Labor fell back, too, while in England, the opposition Conservatives claimed major inroads in running the local councils that provide the foot soldiers in the battle for national office. 
 In the United States, Mr. Blair is remembered as the ally who rallied to America's side after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks only to sacrifice popularity at home in favor of a messianic brand of conviction politics in close alignment with President Bush's.
 ''The kaleidoscope has been shaken,'' Mr. Blair declared at a conference of the Labor Party in October 2001. ''The pieces are in flux. Soon they will settle again. Before they do, let us re-order the world.''
 One result of that pledge is on display in Iraq and Afghanistan, where British troops are deployed, and in Britain. The war in Iraq is cited almost universally by Mr. Blair's critics as their reason to wish him ill as he leaves office, and they have been punishing his party in the local and regional elections.
 But, in the eyes of many Britons, Mr. Blair's legacy is far more nuanced, dragged down further by his stumbling efforts to upgrade public education and health care, but elevated by his success in redefining Britain's political center of gravity.
 Mr. Blair has let it be known that he will set his departure as head of the Labor Party and thus as prime minister for, roughly, the end of June. His resignation will close an era in which Britain has fought a string of wars, enjoyed relative prosperity, remained aloof from Europe and aligned its destiny with that of the United States far more than at any time since the Second World War.
 It is an era in which Mr. Blair can claim credit for cementing peace in Northern Ireland and shifting the national political debate away from the rugged individualism of Thatcherism and toward more social democratic acceptance of the virtues of public spending on schools and hospitals. (His critics argue that he did not go far enough, cleaving to a reverence for the free market, thereby cementing the Thatcher legacy in place as much as his own.) 
 He has, some argued, achieved the highest political accolade, converting not just his followers but also his opponents to the notion of a caring society: even Britain's opposition Conservatives now strive to present themselves as a party of compassion. Moreover, he overcame the long-standing criticism and self-doubt of Labor that it could not be trusted to run a government or an economy.
 ''For the best part of a decade, he made Labor the natural party of government,'' said Dean Godson, research director of the Policy Exchange, a research organization. 
 But, by most accounts, Mr. Blair's legacy is deeply flawed. While he once seemed destined to take his place among Britain's greatest prime ministers, he is now widely regarded as having fallen to a secondary tier after such figures as Winston Churchill, Clement Attlee and Margaret Thatcher.
 ''In broad-brush terms, he is clearly far and away the most successful leader'' in Labor Party history, the only Labor leader to win three straight election victories, said Sunder Katwala, general secretary of the left-wing Fabian Society. ''The question then becomes: What did he do with it?''
 For many, there is only one word to sum up the Blair legacy: Iraq. Mr. Blair ''convinced himself that his power was greater if he became a player in the American debate,'' Mr. Katwala said. Even as disdainful Britons called him Bush's poodle, he became America's biggest ally in the 2003 invasion. 
 He did so ''against the manifest will of the British people,'' David Marquand, an author and academic, wrote in the left-wing weekly The New Statesman. Mr. Blair stood accused of taking Britain to war under false pretenses, compounding his government's reputation for ''spin'' in its self-depiction and forfeiting the trust of many of those who had voted him into power so overwhelmingly in 1997. 
 ''I think there's a really strong sense now that you can't believe a word of what you are told,'' said Robert Harris, a political commentator and best-selling novelist, in a telephone interview. The Iraq war ''is the huge thing that overshadows Blair's time as prime minister,'' he said. ''Iraq and the blind trust he has shown to George Bush have completely eroded his political position.''
 Indeed, there are some who argue that Mr. Blair's departure will benefit his party in the future as much as his electoral victories did in the past. 
 ''He has certainly damaged trust in himself and the party,'' said Glenda Jackson, a Labor legislator and former actor critical of Mr. Blair's record in Iraq. ''Once he has gone the party will be able to revive itself. A huge burden will be lifted.''
 Nonetheless, Mr. Blair's era has been drawn on a wide and dramatic canvas.
 On his watch, Britain has weathered terrorist attacks and alleged conspiracies. The onetime threat from the Irish Republican Army has been replaced by a newer and more deadly challenge from homegrown Islamic militancy that seized on Mr. Blair's policies in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 In response, he has presided over a tightening of counterterrorism laws in a manner that has been criticized by civil rights groups as draconian. His own administration, which came to office promising to be ''purer than pure,'' is ending under a dark cloud of allegations that it traded high honors for campaign financing loans. 
 Mr. Blair sought to build his record around achievements in public services but they were challenged, too, on Friday by a survey among fee-paying private schools showing that their student numbers had risen to 509,093 in 2007 from 505,450 last year, a perceived snub to Mr. Blair's efforts to improve the state education system. 
 Strolling past Westminster Abbey in central London, Margaret Vincent, 69, who said she had worked in a school before she retired, recalled ''some slight improvements'' in education but ''nothing to write home about.'' 
 ''He started off in a blaze of glory,'' said Rohan Goonewardene, who praised the outline of Mr. Blair's proposals for a more efficient public health service. ''His policies have been sound. But management and implementation is ineffective.''
 Not everyone was so critical. Alex Holden, a 28-year-old consultant suggested that the political gap between Labor and Conservative had narrowed and Mr. Blair had created a new consensus. ''I think he's been a great prime minister, but not a great socialist prime minister,'' she said. ''In many ways the difference between Labor and Conservative is actually quite small.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top left, Prime Minister Tony Blair in 1997, shortly after his Labor Party took power. His skills were once compared to Margaret Thatcher's, but he has come under fire for sending troops to Iraq, which he visited on Christmas 2006, and for his friendship with President Bush. (Photo by Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images)
(Photo by Agence France-Presse)
(Photo by Andrew Parsons/European Pressphoto Agency)
 (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); CHRISTMAS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%) Politics and Government; Public Opinion

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (93%) Alan Cowell; Tony (Prime Min) Blair

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); WALES (79%) Great Britain; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



121 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Plan B? Let's Give Plan A Some Time First

BYLINE: By Frederick W. Kagan. 
Frederick W. Kagan is a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a former professor of military history at the United States Military Academy.

DATELINE: Kuwait 

 BODY:
ONE of the most common criticisms of the current ''surge'' in Iraq is that its proponents have not developed a Plan B in case it fails. The skeptics liken this lack of a backup strategy to the Bush administration's failure to plan for various contingencies after the initial invasion in 2003; they see a continuity of errors between previous strategies in Iraq and the new one. 
 In fact, the debate shows only how little the critics of the war understand about military operations. As one of the initial proponents of the surge, I argue that there is no Plan B because there cannot be one. The idea that there can be a single alternative strategy, developed now, just at the beginning of the surge, is antithetical to the dynamic nature of war. At this early stage, there are only possible general responses to various contingencies, which will become more focused as operations move forward. 
The strategy now under way in Iraq -- we are providing an increased number of American forces, working closely with Iraqi troops, to establish and maintain security in Baghdad as a precondition for political, economic and social progress -- will change the situation in Iraq significantly, whether or not it succeeds in its aims. 
 In fact, it has already done so, and for the better: the rebel Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr has apparently fled to Iran; American and Iraqi forces have killed or captured more than 700 key leaders and allies of his Mahdi Army, causing the movement to fragment; sectarian killings in Baghdad in April were about one-third of the level in December.
 There have been gains outside the capital as well. Nearly all of the two dozen or so major tribal leaders in Anbar Province have joined the new Anbar Salvation Council, which is committed to fighting Al Qaeda and other foreign terrorists; Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, along with his defense and interior ministers and national security adviser, met with these sheiks and the provincial council in Anbar's capital, Ramadi, in March to discuss reconstruction; reports in the American press suggest that even some Sunni Baathist insurgents formerly allied with Al Qaeda are now fighting the foreign terrorists in Anbar and elsewhere.
 On the political front, the tenor of the Iraqi government's pronouncements has changed. Prime Minister Maliki and the commander of the Iraqi forces in the surge, Lt. Gen. Aboud Qanbar, have repeatedly declared a new commitment to establish security in a nonsectarian manner; in a 180-degree turnaround, Mr. Maliki has now permitted repeated strikes against senior Shiite militia leaders and sweeps of Shiite neighborhoods; and the government has publicly vowed to expel Shiite squatters from the houses of displaced Sunnis.
 At the regional level, discussions have begun between Iraq and its neighbors, including the international conference held in Baghdad in March and last week's regional conference at Sharm-el-Sheik in Egypt. Saudi Arabia pledged last week to forgive 80 percent of its loans to Iraq.
 Some of these promising developments may yield permanent gains; others may offer false hope. But the thing to keep in mind -- and the thing those calling for a Plan B seem to forget -- is that they will proceed in unpredictable ways. 
 In mid-2006, for instance, the Marine commanders in Anbar had nearly given up hope for restoring peace to the province. Now the Anbari sheiks are sending their sons to join the local police forces and take on Al Qaeda. In fact, so many young men have joined that the police forces in Ramadi and Fallujah are considered to be at ''overstrength.'' Many applicants in Anbar had to be turned away because they could not read or write, so the local government has set up literacy programs to prepare them to reapply. 
 This spring, 500 locally recruited policemen conducted a large-scale sweep through Ramadi, without direct American support. While a number of officers have been killed at their checkpoints by Al Qaeda's suicide bombers, their efforts are having an effect: attacks in Ramadi are reported to have dropped to fewer than five a day on average, down from last year's average of more than 20. 
 The point is that it is impossible to say with any confidence what Iraq will look like in the fall. Yes, many things might happen to derail the current plan. But each eventuality would require a different response. 
 Of late, the American military command in Iraq has been remarkably adaptive to the changing situation, responding to both good and bad events they occur. For example, the Qaeda forces driven from Anbar by the increasing animosity of the local leaders have sought new havens in places like Diyala Province. The two top American generals, David Petraeus and Ray Odierno, responded by quickly sending reinforcements to Diyala to prevent the terrorists from establishing new bases. 
 When Moktada al-Sadr called for fellow Shiites to demonstrate against the American surge last month, General Petraeus wrote an open letter to the Iraqi people pointing out that such demonstrations would not have been permitted under Saddam Hussein, and asking the demonstrators to avoid violence. In the end, the demonstrations were limited in scale and peaceful, and fears that Sunni terrorists would set off a wave of attacks on the protesters proved unfounded. 
 As we look ahead, two things are very clear. First, there can be no ''do-over'' -- the various plans proposed in late 2006 as alternatives to the current strategy are extremely unlikely to be relevant in 2007. Any idea of reverting to the Iraq Study Group plan -- which focused on pushing more Americans into training teams and pulling them out of the neighborhoods -- will probably not make sense in August. 
 Second, it is very premature to evaluate the success or failure of the surge, since the third of five additional brigades has just begun operations and the other two will not be in place for weeks. The major clear-and-hold operations that are the centerpiece of the strategy have not yet begun in most parts of Baghdad. Military and political plans of this magnitude take months to work, and General Petraeus is right to say that we will not know if this one is working until the fall at the earliest. As the facts on the ground change, our military leaders and policy makers will consider new strategies to deal with them. This is the nature of war. 
 This is not the time to be rehashing strategies developed six months ago under very different conditions, or to be planning for the collapse of a strategy that has just begun. It is time, however, to consider the possibility that any Plan B in Iraq will focus on exploiting the success of the current surge rather than on mitigating a failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (87%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); ARMIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); AL-QAEDA (67%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) Frederick W Kagan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



122 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: New Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-25 A Trail of Toxic Medicine Government officials in Panama unwittingly mixed a poison, diethylene glycol, into 260,000 bottles of cold medicine, resulting in at least 100 deaths. Records and interviews link this and three such mass poisonings around the world to Chinese companies that exported the poison as glycerin. 1 U.S. Damage Control in Iraq Unclassified documents suggest that senior American officers viewed the killings of Iraqi civilians in Haditha in 2005 as a potential public relations problem that required an immediate, if misleading, response. 
 1 A Subdued Exit for Blair Tony Blair of Britain, who is expected to announce the schedule for his last weeks as prime minister on Thursday, prepares to leave office burdened by an unpopular war and down in the ratings. 8 Last Jabs in French Race Segolene Royal and Nicolas Sarkozy ended their campaigns for the French presidency with biting personal attacks on each other. 4 Attacks Across Afghanistan A wave of suicide attacks in four provinces of Afghanistan killed two police officers and wounded a NATO soldier and two other Afghan policemen, officials said. 14 Hidden Exiles in Lebanon At least 3,000 of the 400,000 Palestinian refugee families living in Lebanon failed to get refugee status, without which they cannot get identification cards, graduate from school, legally marry, hold a job, or set foot outside of their rundown camps. 12 Hamas Assails U.S. Plan Hamas, which leads the government of the Palestinian Authority and dominates its legislature, poured scorn on American proposals to increase Palestinian movement and Israeli security. 12 NATIONAL 26-35 Antiwar Groups Affect Debate The Iraq deliberations in Congress have lurched from a symbolic resolution rebuking the president's strategy to timetables for the withdrawal of American troops. Behind the scenes, an elaborate political operation organized by a coalition of antiwar groups and fine-tuned to wrestle members of Congress into place one by one has helped nudge the debate forward. 1 Gun Rights Consensus Ends In March, for the first time in the nation's history, a federal appeals court struck down a gun control law on Second Amendment grounds. There used to be an almost complete scholarly and judicial consensus that the Second Amendment protects only the states' right to maintain militias. That consensus no longer exists. 1 Kansas Tornado Kills Nine A wave of tornadoes ripped through Oklahoma and southwest Kansas the day after a tornado tore through the town of Greensburg, Kan., killing at least nine people and leveling most of the city. 35 SPORTSSUNDAY 1-12 Street Sense Takes Derby Street Sense charged from 19th place to claim the Kentucky Derby. Street Sense, a 9-2 favorite, became the first Breeders' Cup Juvenile champion to win the Derby. SP1 NEW YORK/REGION 37-43 Newark On the Rise After four decades of economic stagnation and unbecoming publicity, Newark, New Jersey's largest city, is enjoying the kind of psychic rebirth that has helped transform other downtrodden cities into nesting grounds for the young, creative and well-heeled. 37 Chess 43 Weather 32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (88%); HAMAS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POISONINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); GUN CONTROL (76%); REFUGEES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HISTORY (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); MARRIAGE (66%); FIREARMS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (73%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (53%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (84%) KANSAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (84%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); LEBANON (91%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



123 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS: The In Crowd; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Playing 'Survivor' In Washington

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
IN recent weeks, Beltway wise guys have amused themselves with a distinctively local version of the TV show ''Survivor,'' pitting Attorney General Alberto Gonzales against Paul Wolfowitz, the World Bank chief. Who will be first banished from the swamp?
 Will it be Mr. Wolfowitz, the embattled former deputy defense secretary, over allegations of favored treatment to his girlfriend, a former World Bank official?
 Or Mr. Gonzales, the embattled attorney general who has been bludgeoned over his role in the dismissal of eight United States attorneys?
 Regardless, a pervasive belief has taken hold that both are, in the tender parlance of politics, road kill. ''By the way, Alberto Gonzales is still attorney general,'' was how NBC's online political tip sheet, First Read, began a Wednesday report on Mr. Gonzales. And you know you're on the outs when you're reduced to saying, as Mr. Wolfowitz did, ''I urge the committee to reject the allegation that I lack credibility.'' 
 We've seen this runup to the inevitable before, of course. It is the entrenched cycle of revelation, outcry, serial apology, and erosion of support that precedes the funeral. It may be just a matter of time before Mr. Wolfowitz and Mr. Gonzales recognize the ''distractions'' they have become and decide to spend more time with their families. 
 (Herein, the requisite disclaimer about how both Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Wolfowitz are, as of this writing Friday night, still employed. Each has defenders who say he is a victim of ''witch hunts,'' ''smear campaigns'' and ''rushes to judgment.'' Both have admitted to mistakes but believe they should keep their jobs and -- who knows? -- maybe they will. O.K., end of disclaimer, on with the death watch.)
 ''In the middle of all this, my wife sent Al's wife an e-mail,'' said Michael Brown, the chief of the Federal Emergency Management Agency during Hurricane Katrina and no stranger to Category 5 storms of public ridicule. The e-mail message reassured her, simply, that ''there's life after Washington.'' Mr. Brown, who calls Mr. Gonzales a ''true gentleman'' and a ''friend,'' nonetheless subscribes to the belief that Mr. Gonzales is going down.
 As Mr. Brown knows, the ritual of public sacrifice follows a familiar Washington kabuki with its own peculiar rhythms. Momentum builds, support erodes and perceptions calcify to an irreversible point.
 Les affaires Gonzales and Wolfowitz offer cases in point: Both featured vivid public humiliations last month -- Mr. Gonzales's widely ridiculed testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee; Mr. Wolfowitz's brutal meeting with World Bank employees at which he was heckled. Both men have been defiant in their refusals to quit, and both have retained the support of Mr. Bush. 
 To some degree, the Wolfowitz and Gonzales firestorms mimic other spectacular downfalls -- those of, say, the radio host Don Imus, Lawrence Summers at Harvard and Trent Lott as Republican leader of the Senate. But they also underscore how the basic ecology of the Washington downfall has changed in the Bush years. Several key officials in this administration have stayed in their jobs well beyond their perceived expiration dates: Donald Rumsfeld, the former defense secretary; George Tenet, the former chief of central intelligence; Andrew Card, the former chief of staff; and Harriet Miers, the former White House counsel. Few top officials in any administration have enjoyed more durable support from any president than his profoundly vilified vice president, Dick Cheney, and his political guru, Karl Rove. 
 Mr. Bush has a reputation for standing firm by his charges -- something his supporters laud as loyalty and critics decry as blindness and arrogance. The White House's support for the attorney general has achieved the dual effect of both bolstering and isolating Mr. Gonzales, says Mr. Brown of FEMA. ''I was struck by how long it took for anyone to say anything in support of him,'' he said.
 Not surprisingly, Mr. Brown believes that the White House's reputation for loyalty is overstated, and that Mr. Bush has been more than willing to discard deputies. (The litany includes, among others, Paul O'Neill as Treasury secretary; Richard Clarke as antiterrorism adviser; Lawrence B. Lindsey as director of the National Economic Council.) 
 For his part, Mr. Lott has said that he loyally served the White House as Senate Republican leader, only to have administration officials -- namely Mr. Rove -- undermine him as he fought to keep his job after making racially charged remarks in late 2002. While the White House stuck by Mr. Tenet despite repeated calls for his firing, he still felt sufficiently undermined to write a withering book attacking several members of the administration. Likewise, Mr. O'Neill collaborated on a grievance-filled book, ''The Price of Loyalty.''
 Still, Mr. Bush seems to take a certain delight in bucking calls for the heads of his deputies -- double bonus points if said top deputies have history with him (triple points for ties to Texas ). 
 ''Loyalty is a good thing in politics, and overall, it's been a net plus for this administration,'' said Ed Rogers, a Republican lobbyist and top aide in the administration of President George H. W. Bush. He said that this current White House has had relatively few people quit, and a lower-than-usual quotient of kiss-and-tell books.
 ''The line of loyalty in this White House is that some people are family, and some are not,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''That's the difference between a Larry Lindsey and an Alberto Gonzales.''
 For much of his presidency, Mr. Bush has enjoyed the political standing -- and the cover of a Republican-dominated Congress -- to be as loyal as he cared to be to longtime friends like Mr. Gonzales. This is no longer true, obviously. 
 ''There's an element these days that Democrats are finally able to get back at Bush,'' said Paul Light, an expert in the executive branch, who teaches at New York University's Wagner School of Public Service. In a sense, he says, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Wolfowitz are paying for the antagonism the administration has accumulated over six years. ''There's a sense of 'it's payback time' for the Bush people,'' Mr. Light said.
 Mr. Bush has also been prone to sticking by certain officials even as their positions are made more precarious by his aides. The classic instance involves John W. Snow, who was seemingly on the outs as Treasury secretary from the day he arrived in early 2003. In a coin-of-the-realm example of his shaky position, a White House official was quoted in 2004 in The Washington Post saying Mr. Snow could stay ''as long as he wants, provided it's not very long.''
 And yet, Mr. Snow remained at Treasury for another year and a half. 
 ''After a while, you just have to ask yourself, is it worth it?'' Mr. Brown said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Still Sitting -- Alberto Gonzales, left, and Paul Wolfowitz have the support of the administration, sort of. (Photo by Gerard Cerles/Agence France-Presse)
 (Photo by Dennis Cook/Associated Press)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HURRICANES (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALBERTO GONZALES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



124 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2A; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; SUMMER MOVIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: Giving the Last Laugh to Life's Losers

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
schlub U.S. slang. A worthless person, a ''jerk,'' an oaf. -- Oxford English Dictionary 
 IN the world of ''Knocked Up,'' the latest big-ticket comedy to take on American mating rituals, the formula is basically thus: Girl meets schlub. Schlub nails girl. Girl hangs around to discover schlub's inner mensch.
 However unlikely a premise, this territory has already been staked out and explored, with considerable success, in television shows like ''According to Jim'' and movies like ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin,'' the runaway hit of two summers ago, with a virgin nerd (Steve Carell) in place of the schlub. But ''Knocked Up,'' whose main promotional image is a close-up of Seth Rogen as the pudgy, pot-smoking, porn-addled, job-free hero of the tale, Ben, may well take its celebration of American schlubitude (loserdom? schlemieliness?) to a new level. 
 In the film he wins the carnal attentions, then seeks the romantic ones, of Alison (Katherine Heigl), a statuesque, blond-haired, career-oriented entertainment journalist who is carrying the fruit of their drunken one-night stand. 
 And Ben's not the only schlub in the picture, which opens on June 1. He lives in an apartment surrounded by fellow losers who spend their days in pajamas trolling movies for the dirty parts, which they tabulate for an eventual Web site. Their world -- a stark women-are-from-Venus, geeks-are-from-Mars zone -- has precious few women in it, and almost none who could qualify as friends with whom they might, say, share conversation, or even a video game.
 The film is the product of a dedicated core of comedy geeks, led by the writer and director Judd Apatow and including Mr. Rogen and Paul Rudd, propelled by social sensibilities that all of them acknowledge are lodged firmly in high school. Their high schools.
 ''I always thought of myself as a nerdy guy,'' said Mr. Apatow, in a trailer during a break in the filming of yet another satire from the ever-growing Apatow comedy oeuvre: ''Walk Hard,'' a comedy he wrote starring John C. Reilly as a faded rock star. ''I was a kid at home watching 'The Dinah Shore Show.' I relate to underdogs. It may be my way of saying to every girl who ever broke up with me, 'Why did you do it?' ''
 The feeling has apparently never gone away, despite the fact that Mr. Apatow, 39, is now married to an attractive actress, who is in his film, with whom he has two daughters, who are also in his film. ''We've been married for 10 years in June, and he's still really uncomfortable with me sometimes,'' said Leslie Mann, Mr. Apatow's real-life wife, who plays Debbie, Alison's unhappily married sister. ''He still spills things before giving me a kiss. He'll knock a glass over and get flustered by it. Sometimes it feels like we're on a first date. He didn't outgrow the geeky boy he was. It's still there in him.''
 But what is most amazing about Mr. Apatow's sensibility is just how deeply it resonates with an entire generation of young American men, and perhaps of women too. Not only was ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'' a blockbuster hit, but raucous audience reactions to ''Knocked Up'' in test screenings held in numerous cities by Universal, which is releasing it, suggest that it too may hit a nerve. Mr. Apatow said a common response after screenings was from young husbands, who said they felt guilty that they weren't at home more with their families. 
 What is it about these American men? The reactions to Mr. Apatow's work suggest something close to catharsis in the depiction of hapless losers as heroes, a notion that, in movie terms, probably starts with Dustin Hoffman in ''The Graduate.'' But Mr. Apatow turns out mainstream comedies, not cutting-edge fare, and unlike Benjamin in that 1967 film, the men in these contemporary comedies often consider women as scary (like the self-pleasuring vixen in ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'') as they are unattainable (Alison in ''Knocked Up''). Perhaps there is something in the culture, a generational cue that may come from the rise of women's economic and sexual independence or from the arrival of a recognizable geeky archetype, that makes this paradigm comforting for audiences.
 Call it the revenge of the nerds, and there are plenty of those in Hollywood. ''The culture in the last 5, 10 years is one of shame and humiliation, and Judd gets that,'' said Jon Kasdan, a writer-director who worked for Mr. Apatow on the short-lived television cult hit ''Freaks and Geeks'' and recently released his first film, ''In the Land of Women.'' He continued: ''Part of the experience of being a man in this postmodern life is humiliation, and wearing it as something to be proud of. This is a true frustration that Judd is expressing in his work, almost a romanticized version of being a schlub.'' 
 In that same vein, immaturity in the pursuit of women is, if not a virtue, then at least a hallmark of this genre, a reinforcement of the American man's reluctance to give up childish things and face adulthood. In the film Mr. Rudd plays Pete, Debbie's husband, whom she suspects of cheating, though he is actually sneaking out to be with his buddies. And as Alison grapples with the stark choices of an unwanted pregnancy, Ben's friends shudder at the thought of what one will refer to only as a ''shmashmortion.''
 This reflects a view thoroughly shared among those who made the movie. ''Guys who behave like our characters and the guys in '40-Year-Old Virgin' are the gross majority, if anything,'' said Mr. Rogen, who called from the set of his next movie, ''Pineapple Express,'' based on a story by Mr. Apatow about two pot-smoking buddies being chased by drug dealers. ''I look at the people I meet. No one's dying to have a lot of responsibility in their lives. Very few people are looking at life and thinking, 'Gee, I wish there was another thing to occupy my time and energy.' Our characters are definitely trying to avoid that type of thing.''
 Mr. Rudd, who contributed to the ''Knocked Up'' script, said: ''We were all pretty nerdy dudes. I had horrible skin. I was Jewish, living in the Midwest. And I don't think we're alone. I think there's an army of young dudes out there who are really into comedy. They're not on the first string of anything. They're varsity nothing. That's just us, and we're older now, with the studio giving us a little bit of money.'' 
 As for the dreaded pursuit of the female species, no confidence is the norm. ''So much of your psyche growing up is 'How am I going to obtain a woman?' '' Mr. Rogen said. ''Most people who are married are half convinced their wife might dump them at any second and they'll be thrust into the world of finding a mate.'' 
 Mr. Rogen has been dating the same woman for two years. ''I had a dream last night that she broke up with me,'' he said. ''I woke up in a terrible mood, feeling terribly betrayed. Deep down inside we all feel like 40-year-old virgins. It's lame, but true. Everyone, no matter how many times they've had sex, is still afraid he might be bad at it.'' 
 In Hollywood, humor tends to go in cycles, with the late '80s and early to mid-'90s heavy on romantic comedies (''Pretty Woman,'' ''When Harry Met Sally ,'' ''Sleepless in Seattle,'') and I'm-with-stupid-style movies (''Dumb & Dumber,'' ''Kingpin,'' ''Ace Ventura: Pet Detective''). The latter part of the 1990s was thick with gross-outcomedies like ''There's Something About Mary'' and ''American Pie.'' 
 This decade seems to be the province of Mr. Apatow and his broader group of comedy buddies -- Mr. Carell, Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn among them. But not everyone thinks this vein of humor is entirely worthy. Mike White, who worked with Mr. Apatow on ''Freaks and Geeks'' and recently directed his first film, ''Year of the Dog,'' wonders if his friend has wandered away from championing the underdog to validating the underdog's flaws. 
 Mr. White is particularly bothered by jokes in both ''Knocked Up'' and ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'' that skewer gay men and dismiss women. ''To me, I definitely stand in the corner of wanting to give voice to the bullied, and not the bully. Here's where comedy is catharsis for people who are picked on,'' he said.
 ''There's a strain in 'Knocked Up' where you sort of feel like something's changed a little bit,'' he continued. ''My sense of it is that because those guys are idiosyncratic-looking, their perception is that they're still the underdogs. But there is something about the spirit of the thing, that comes under the guise of comedy, where -- it's weird. At some point it starts feeling like comedy of the bullies, rather than the bullied.''
 Mr. Apatow continued to chew over the subject after an initial interview in which he said he believed ''Knocked Up'' was about taking responsibility, rather than the reverse. 
 He sent a series of e-mail messages and finally concluded: ''I think there is a nerd's fantasy involved in many of these films. We all wish that somebody would take the time to get to know us, and love us, warts and all.''
 He added: ''I always wanted to be given a shot. And the sick part is this: No matter how many shots I get, I never completely lose the feeling of inadequacy that makes me wish I would get a chance to prove myself.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Katherine Heigl and Seth Rogen, center, in ''Knocked Up,'' the new film from the director Judd Apatow, left. ''I relate to underdogs,'' Mr. Apatow said. ''It may be my way of saying to every girl who ever broke up with me, 'Why did you do it?' '' (Photographs by Suzanne Hanover/Universal Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); WRITERS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); MOVIE FILMING (56%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: KATHERINE HEIGL (72%); STEVE CARELL (57%) Sharon Waxman; Judd Apatow; Seth Rogen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



125 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2A; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; SUMMER MOVIES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 9065 words

HEADLINE: Old Friends? New Foes? Your Choice

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR; Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O'Connor.

 BODY:
 All dates are subject to change. May Opened Missing Victor Pellerin The title of Sophie Deraspe's documentary refers to a Montreal artist who disappeared in the early '90s after burning his work. Waitress Adrienne Shelly, who was murdered last November, directed, wrote and stars in this comedy about a small-town waitress (Keri Russell) who bakes pies flavored to match her many moods, moods that take a downturn when she finds that she's pregnant by her lout of a husband (Jeremy Sisto), although she becomes seriously enamored of her obstetrician (Nathan Fillion). With Cheryl Hines. [Article, Page 11.] Away from Her The Canadian actress Sarah Polley directs her first feature film, an adaptation of an Alice Munro story about a couple (Julie Christie and Gordon Pinsent) whose marriage of almost 50 years is threatened by Alzheimer's. Civic Duty An unemployed accountant (Peter Krause) suspects the Muslim graduate student next door (Khaled Abol Naga) of being a terrorist. When the F.B.I. won't listen, he takes matters into his own trembling hands. 
Jeff Renfroe directs. The Flying Scotsman Jonny Lee Miller stars as Graeme Obree, a champion bicycle racer who built his mount out of washing-machine spare parts but later suffered some biopic-friendly mental health problems. Douglas Mackinnon directs; with Laura Fraser, Billy Boyd and Brian Cox. L'Iceberg A studied, Tati-like comedy from the team of Dominique Abel, Fiona Gordon and Bruno Romy, about a middle-class wife and mother (Ms. Gordon) whose priorities are drastically altered after she survives a night locked in the cold storage room of the fast-food restaurant she manages. The Last Time A cynical salesman (Michael Keaton) finds himself falling for the gorgeous wife (Amber Valletta) of his new partner (Brendan Fraser). A comedy-drama-thriller, directed and written by Michael Caleo. Lucky You Making its third and final appearance on this list, Curtis Hanson's romantic drama, originally scheduled for release in March 2006, concerns an aspiring singer (Drew Barrymore) who meets a professional poker player (Eric Bana) in Las Vegas. Robert Duvall co-stars. Paris Je T'Aime Twenty short films by 20 filmmakers celebrating the 20 arrondissements of Paris. Among the talents involved: Olivier Assayas, Gurinder Chadha, Alfonso Cuaron, Alexander Payne, Gerard Depardieu, Joel and Ethan Coen and Wes Craven. September Dawn The deadly 1857 confrontation of a Mormon militia and a wagon train of Arkansas settlers near Mountain Meadows in southwestern Utah, recounted in a film directed by Christopher Cain and starring Terence Stamp, Jon Voight and Dean Cain (the director's son). Spider-Man 3 Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire) discovers his dark side when his Spider-Man suit turns black and his sunny personality takes a turn into surliness. His girlfriend, Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst) is devastated, but the local supervillains (Thomas Haden Church as Sandman, Topher Grace as Venom) see an opportunity to get back in the game. Sam Raimi directs; with James Franco, Bryce Dallas Howard, James Cromwell, Rosemary Harris and Theresa Russell. [Article, Page 4.] The Treatment Chris Eigeman stars as a New York City prep school teacher with a controlling psychoanalyst (Ian Holm) and a wealthy, young, widowed lover (Famke Janssen) in Oren Rudavsky's adaptation of Daniel Menaker's 1998 novel. With Blair Brown, Roger Rees and Harris Yulin. Wednesday Allegro From Denmark, the tale of a concert pianist (Ulrich Thomsen) who finds that fame has not brought him happiness. Christoffer Boe directs. Brand Upon the Brain! The director Guy Maddin takes his acclaimed performance piece -- a pseudo-autobiographical fantasy that requires a live narrator and a pair of sound effects artists -- on the road, beginning in New York, where the guest narrators will include Isabella Rossellini and Suzanne Vega. Day Night Day Night After making the world film festival tour, Julia Loktev's New York indie returns to the city of its conception for a commercial release. Luisa Williams plays the enigmatic lead character, identified only as ''She,'' who is preparing an earth-shaking act of terrorism. I Don't Want to Sleep Alone Tsai Ming-liang, the minimalist filmmaker who has shot most of his work (''The Wayward Cloud,'' ''Goodbye Dragon Inn'') in Taiwan, returns to his native Malaysia for his most recent study in stalled desire. Mr. Tsai's eternal leading man, Lee Kang-sheng, plays someone who is badly beaten when a con game goes wrong; he has two competing caregivers, a shy young worker (Norman Atun) and a brassy waitress (Chen Shiang-chyi). Looking for an Icon A documentary by Hans Pool and Maaik Krijgsman that looks at the history behind four famous photographs that became political symbols, including Eddie Adams's unforgettable 1968 image of the point-blank shooting of a Viet Cong prisoner. Friday Casting About The agony of the audition, as depicted in a documentary featuring footage of 180 actresses competing for three roles in a movie. Barry J. Hershey directs. Delta Farce Dan Whitney, known professionally as Larry the Cable Guy, joins D J Qualls and Bill Engvall as National Guardsmen who think they're heading to Iraq but accidentally get dropped off in Mexico. Hilarity ensues under the direction of C. B. Harding (''Blue Collar Comedy Tour: The Movie''). The EX One little mistake, and Zach Braff finds himself married to his pregnant girlfriend (Amanda Peet), living in Ohio and working for her father's advertising agency. Jesse Peretz directs this instructional comedy; with Charles Grodin and Mia Farrow. Georgia Rule Your chance to compare two generations of major movie stars as Jane Fonda, playing a flinty Idaho farmer, takes over the care of her spoiled, unruly grandchild, played in a major stretch of her acting talent by Lindsay Lohan. With Felicity Huffman, Dermot Mulroney and Garrett Hedlund; the direction is in the practiced hands of Garry Marshall. The Hip Hop Project A profile of Chris Rolle, also known as Kharma Kazi, who runs a program for aspiring young rappers in New York City. The Other Conquest Released in Mexico in 2000, Salvador Carrasco's epic film recounts the Spanish invasion of the Aztec empire. With Damian Delgado, Jose Carlos Rodriguez and Elpidia Carrillo. Provoked The Bollywood superstar Aishwarya Rai stars in the true story of an abused wife who set her husband on fire. Jag Mundhra directed a cast including Naveen Andrews, Miranda Richardson, Rebecca Pidgeon and Robbie Coltrane. The Salon Vivica A. Fox fights City Hall to keep her neighborhood beauty salon open when the Department of Water and Power threatens to seize her land for a development project. Mark Brown, who wrote and produced ''Barbershop,'' directs as well this time. With Terrence Howard and Monica Calhoun. ShowBusiness: The Road to Broadway Dori Berinstein's documentary follows four shows through the course of the 2003-4 Broadway season -- ''Wicked,'' ''Taboo,'' ''Caroline, or Change'' and ''Avenue Q'' -- building up to the big moment when all four are nominated for Tony Awards. 28 Weeks Later Juan Carlos Fresnadillo (''Intacto'') directed this sequel to Danny Boyle's zombie hit of 2000, ''28 Days Later.'' A decent interval has passed, and the United States Army is helping the beleaguered British set up a safe ''Green Zone'' in central London. Do we smell allegory here? With Robert Carlyle, Rose Byrne, Jeremy Renner and Catherine McCormack. May 16 The Changeling The director Jay Stern has designed his indie adaptation of the Jacobean revenge play by Thomas Middleton and William Rowley as ''period-piece pulp fiction.'' May 18 Brooklyn Rules Three friends with different priorities (going to law school, joining the mob, loafing around) grow up in Brooklyn in the '80s. Michael Corrente directs from a script by Terence Winter; with Freddie Prinze Jr., Scott Caan and Jerry Ferrara. Captivity Already notorious for its grisly bondage billboards in Los Angeles, this is a ''Saw''-like story of a man and a woman who wake up to find themselves being held prisoner in a dark, dank cellar, with no idea what they're doing there. The audience, however, has its suspicions. The unlikely director is Roland Joffe, who seems to have lowered his sights since ''The Killing Fields.'' Even Money The veteran director Mark Rydell (''The Rose,'' ''On Golden Pond'') climbs back into the saddle for a story of gambling addiction and how it destroys the lives of three people. The name-heavy cast includes Kim Basinger, Forest Whitaker, Danny DeVito and Kelsey Grammer. Fay Grim Hal Hartley, the cinematic poet laureate of Long Island (''Trust,'' ''Simple Men'') now living in Berlin, offers a sequel to his whimsical-paranoid ''Henry Fool'' of 1997. Parker Posey returns as the friend and lover of Henry, the mysterious literary genius, left on her own with his son when he disappeared. She gets word that the Parisian police have recovered portions of the manuscript of Henry's lost masterpiece, and flies off to investigate as a C.I.A. operative (Jeff Goldblum) stays on her tail. With James Urbaniak and Saffron Burrows. Flanders Set in the blood-soaked fields of World War I, Bruno Dumont's film is a contemporary story about a peasant farmer (played by a nonprofessional actor, Samuel Boidin) who returns from a distant, inhumane war. Will his love for his childhood sweetheart (Adelaide Leroux) prove to be enough to have saved him from savagery? Mr. Dumont's stark, brutalist, sometimes comically literal work puts off many viewers, but he's one of the few French filmmakers of his generation with a point of view. Once The critical hit at this year's Sundance festival is an Irish film, directed and written by John Carney, about a Dublin street musician (Glen Hansard of the Frames) who teams up with a Czech immigrant (Marketa Irglova) with musical ambitions of her own. Private Property Tension mounts between a middle-aged woman (Isabelle Huppert) and her adult twin sons (the brothers Jeremie and Yannick Renier) when they refuse to move out and allow her to lead a life of her own. Joachim Lafosse directed this French-language family drama. Severance ''The Office'' meets ''Hostel'' in a British splatter comedy about a bunch of office drones forced to attend a weekend retreat at a hunting lodge in the Carpathians. But the woods are full of dead-eyed Serbian guerillas, and soon both the blood and the smug wisecracks are flying. Christopher Smith directs; with Toby Stephens and Laura Harris. Shortcut to Happiness Stephen Vincent Benet's story ''The Devil and Daniel Webster'' gets another film treatment. Alec Baldwin is the uncredited director and also plays a leading role, though the star is Anthony Hopkins, as a writer who sells his soul to a more alluring Devil than usual, played by Jennifer Love Hewitt. With Dan Aykroyd, Kim Cattrall and John Savage. Shrek the Third The lovable animated ogre with the voice of Mike Myers is back and in a moral bind. Forced to take over the throne when his royal father-in-law falls ill, he can't imagine ever leaving his precious bog. But duty calls, in the zaftig form of Princess Fiona (Cameron Diaz). With the voices of Eddie Murphy, Antonio Banderas, Rupert Everett, Julie Andrews, and Justin Timberlake. Chris Miller is the director, with Raman Hui. The Wendell Baker Story The Wilson brothers team up, with Luke Wilson as the title character, an ex-con who gets a job at a nursing home where the adorable oldsters (Seymour Cassel, Harry Dean Stanton and Kris Kristofferson) advise him on how to win back the girlfriend (Eva Mendes) he lost during his prison term. Andrew Wilson and Luke Wilson are the directors; another brother, Owen Wilson, turns up as the home's evil head nurse. May 23 The Boss of It All Lars von Trier takes a vacation from the moral excoriation of the ''Dogville'' trilogy to create a funny, tiny, but no less thought-provoking comedy about an actor (Jens Albinus, the cult leader in ''The Idiots'') who is hired to impersonate a fictive corporate head: an imaginary ''no man'' invented by the actual boss of the company (Peter Gantzler) to take the heat for unpopular decisions. With the radiant Iben Hjejle, not much seen in the United States since her turn in ''High Fidelity.'' I Have Never Forgotten You: The Life and Legacy of Simon Wiesenthal A profile of the Mauthausen concentration camp survivor and Nazi hunter, who helped build cases against 1,100 people, including Adolf Eichmann and Josef Mengele. Directed by Richard Trank; narrated by Nicole Kidman. 9 Star Hotel The Israeli filmmaker Ido Haar documents the Palestinian workers who cross illegally into Israel for work, often risking their lives. Orange Winter The scandal-plagued Ukrainian presidential election of 2004 and its aftermath of unrest and repression, as documented by the Ukrainian-American filmmaker Andrei Zagdansky. May 25 Amu A young woman of Indian descent is torn between her loyalty to her adoptive parents in Canada and the powerful sense of homecoming she feels when she visits Delhi. Shonali Bose's film was censored in India for daring to refer to the riots in Delhi that followed the assassination of Indira Gandhi in 1984. Angel-A The French director Luc Besson (''La Femme Nikita'') once promised that he'd quit after 10 features; this is the 10th. It's a duet starring the lovable French-Algerian comedian Jamel Debbouze as a Parisian deeply in debt to gangsters; he prevents Angela, a tall, blond Dane (Rie Rasmussen) from killing herself, and earns himself a new protector. There is a plot twist, subtly tipped by the title. In glorious black-and-white, photographed by Thierry Arbogast. Bug Tracy Letts's 2004 Off Broadway play, set largely in a sordid Western hotel where a returning soldier (Michael Shannon) manages to convince his bartending neighbor (Ashley Judd) that his body is being devastated by a ''bug'' he caught in the Middle East. William Friedkin (''The Exorcist'') directed. [Article, Page 31.] The Golden Door The immigrant experience of the early 1900s as scrupulously and poetically recreated by the Italian filmmaker Emanuele Crialese (''Respiro''). Vincenzo Amato plays the poor Sicilian farmer who packs up his family and sets sail for America. With Charlotte Gainsbourg, who seems on board mainly to justify the French co-production money. Hollywood Dreams The indie stalwart Henry Jaglom (''Always'') presents his new discovery, Tanna Frederick, as a small-town girl from Iowa who goes to Los Angeles in search of the usual fame and fortune. With Justin Kirk, Karen Black and Melissa Leo. Paprika From one of Japan's masters of anime, Satoshi Kon, comes a many-layered science fiction tale, built around a headphonelike device that allows scientists to tap into and influence people's dreams. The title character is a pert redhead who appears when dreamers need guidance, which is pretty often, given the scary dream, a sort of mad parade of imaginary characters, in which they've been trapped. Pirates of the Caribbean: At the End of the World Widely expected to be The Big One this summer, Gore Verbinski's film will be the final chapter in the ''Pirates'' franchise. Chow Yun-Fat joins the cast (Keira Knightley, Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush) as a Chinese pirate who takes the side of Captain Jack (Johnny Depp) against an ever more demented Davy Jones (Bill Nighy). And even Keith Richards puts in an appearance. June June 1 And Then Came Love When her little boy pleads for a daddy, a single mother (Vanessa Williams) decides to track down the anonymous sperm donor who made him possible. Kevin Daniels, Eartha Kitt, Stephen Spinella and Ben Vereen co-star in this romantic comedy directed by Richard Schenkman. Crazy Love Dan Klores's documentary recounts a famously bizarre tabloid romance of the 1950s, featuring a married lawyer whose love for a Bronx beauty led to some hideous and improbable consequences. Day Watch The Russian director Timur Bekmambetov follows his creative contemporary vampire story, ''Night Watch,'' with a livelier sequel. Who will acquire the all-powerful ''Chalk of Fate'': the good spirits on the day watch or the evil entities who rule at night? Four Lane Highway The life of a college town layabout (Fred Weller) takes a radical turn when he decides to drive to New York to attend the gallery opening of an ex-girlfriend (Greer Goodman). With Elizabeth Rodriguez and Reg Rogers; written and directed by Dylan McCormick. Gracie An inspirational story inspired by the Shue family and set in the antediluvian '70s, where a plucky 16-year-old named Gracie leads the national campaign to make high school soccer available to girls. Directed by Davis Guggenheim, whose last film was the documentary ''An Inconvenient Truth.'' With Elisabeth Shue, the director's wife, and her brother Andrew; both are among the film's producers. Knocked Up The director Judd Apatow tries to top his ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'' with a comedy about a young and ambitious entertainment journalist, played by Katherine Heigl, who faces some tough decisions when she becomes pregnant after a one-night stand with a likable loser (Seth Rogen). Paul Rudd co-stars. [Article, Page 4.] Mr. Brooks Kevin Costner struggles to remain relevant, starring as a beloved small-town businessman who harbors a secret identity (played by William Hurt) as a serial killer. Bruce A. Evans directs; with Demi Moore and Dane Cook. [Article, Page 11.] Pierrepoint The sly British actor Timothy Spall stars as Britain's most celebrated executioner in the 1950s, a family man whose day job is delivering groceries. Adrian Shergold directed from Jeff Pope's script; with Juliet Stevenson and Eddie Marsan. Ten Canoes Rolf de Heer, one of Australia's most original filmmakers (''Dance Me to My Song''), worked with the Ramingining Aboriginal people to create this imaginative collage of folk tales and tribal history. June 6 12:08 East of Bucharest From Romania, the country that gave us ''The Death of Mr. Lazarescu,'' another mordant comedy. The scene is a television studio, where a variety of guests, all with different recollections, share their memories of the downfall of Nicolai Ceausescu in 1989. Corneliu Porumboiu directs. June 8 BELLE TOUJOURS The veteran Portuguese filmmaker Manoel de Oliveira dares to imagine a sequel to Luis Bunuel's 1967 classic ''Belle de Jour.'' Forty years later two of the protagonists in that film, the bourgeois housewife turned happy hooker (Bulle Ogier, stepping in for Catherine Deneuve) and her husband's discreet best friend (Michel Piccoli, returning to the role he created), meet for dinner in a private room at a traditional Paris restaurant. They alternately reminisce and bicker, as the candles lighting their encounter burn to nubbins. Hostel: Part II This time it's three female American exchange students who are lured into a Slovakian den of torture. The director, again, is the uninhibited Eli Roth, who, in a Tarantino-like move, has invited two cult actors from the violent Italian ''gialli'' thrillers of the 1970s to join the cast: Luc Merenda and Edwige Fenech. And in-joke tops in-joke, with a cameo by the director Ruggero Deodato (''Cannibal Holocaust'') as a character named Fulci, a nod to the cult director Lucio Fulci. La Vie en Rose Marion Cotillard plays France's most famous torch singer, Edith Piaf, in a biography directed by Olivier Dahan (''La Vie Promise''). A solid supporting cast includes Sylvie Testud, Pascal Greggory, Emmanuelle Seigner and Gerard Depardieu. [Article, Page 11.] LET'S GET LOST A revival of Bruce Weber's 1988 documentary, about the ravishing youth and frightening old age of the jazz trumpeter and vocalist Chet Baker. Ocean's Thirteen Time for Steven Soderbergh to repay Warner Brothers for letting him make ''The Good German'' in black and white. The third, and as of now final installment in this franchise about frisky crooks led by George Clooney, introduces a slimy casino owner played by Al Pacino. With Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Ellen Barkin, Bernie Mac, Casey Affleck, Scott Caan, Elliott Gould and Don Cheadle. Surf's Up If its summertime, it's penguin time. In this 3-D animation from Sony, Shia LaBeouf lends his voice to a little penguin with big dreams of winning the annual Penguin World Surfing Championship. Ash Brannon and Chris Buck directed; additional voices include Jon Heder, Zooey Deschanel, Jeff Bridges, James Woods and Mario Cantone. You're Gonna Miss Me Keven McAlester's documentary follows the early success and sad decline (into drugs and mental illness) of a pioneering acid rock musician, Roger Kynard Erickson, also known as Roky, of the 13th Floor Elevators, who is playing music again. June 13 Lights in the Dusk Finland's master of deadpan comedy, Aki Kaurismaki, directs the story of a shy night watchman (Janne Hyytiainen) who is drafted as the fall guy in a robbery attempt. June 15 CHALK Troy Schremmer plays a high school history teacher struggling to survive his first semester at a rough and tough high school in Austin, Tex. Mike Akel directed in the ''mockumentary'' style of Christopher Guest's films. Eagle vs. Shark A pair of lovable losers get together in a New Zealand comedy, with a trailer that suggests ''Napoleon Dynamite'' did good business down under. Taika Waititi is the director. Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer Still as fantastic as ever in their second feature, the four superheroes (Ioan Gruffudd, Jessica Alba, Chris Evans and Michael Chiklis) confront a new nemesis in the form of the Silver Surfer (Doug Jones, best known as Guillermo del Toro's favorite stunt player). Tim Story directs. Fido ''Zombie Comedy,'' having apparently become a genre unto itself, gets another iteration in this Canadian movie, set in an alternate 1950s where the zombie population has been drafted as domestic help. Carrie-Anne Moss is a housewife who develops a dangerous affection for her major-domo, Fido, played by Billy Connolly. Andrew Currie directs. GYPSY CARAVAN From the writer, producer and director Jasmine Dellal, a look at the Gypsy Caravan concert tour, following Roma musicians from Spain, Macedonia, Romania and India as they come together for a North American tour. Photographed by the indefatigable Albert Maysles (''Grey Gardens''). JHOOM BARABAR JHOOM The red-hot Bollywood star Abhishek Bachchan (the husband of even red-hotter Bollywood star Aishwarya Rai), stars as a soccer fan with terminal cancer who decides to visit England for one final season and meets a female soccer fan with terminal cancer. Only in Bollywood. With Mr. Bachchan's imposing father, the veteran Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan. Shaad Ali directs. MACBETH The Australian filmmaker Geoffrey Wright earned some international notoriety while giving the young Russell Crowe's career a boost with the skinhead drama ''Romper Stomper'' in 1992; he's back with a Shakespearean adaptation set among the gangs of Melbourne. (Not so original: Ken Hughes did it with ''Joe Macbeth'' in 1955 and William Reilly with ''Men of Respect'' in 1991.) Nancy Drew Emma Roberts (daughter of Eric, niece of Julia) plays the teenage sleuth as Warner Brothers attempts to reconfigure the ancient franchise for contemporary tweeners. The setting is Los Angeles as Nancy investigates a spooky old house where a movie star was murdered. The trailer suggests that lots of shopping is also involved. With Tate Donovan; directed by Andrew Fleming (who made the pretty terrific ''Dick'' in 1999).[Article, Page 10.] RAISING FLAGG Alan Arkin as a cantankerous farmer, engaged in an endless dispute with his neighbor (Austin Pendleton), who convinces himself that he's dying as a result of the conflict and summons his family to his bedside. With Barbara Dana, Lauren Holly and Glenne Headly; Neal Miller directs. June 20 MANUFACTURED LANDSCAPES The winner for best documentary in the 2007 Canadian film awards, Jennifer Baichwal's film follows the photographer Edward Burtynsky to China, where he plans to capture the environmental consequences of China's economic explosion. WHITE PALMS Szabolcs Hajdu's film brings back memories of the vital, politically charged Hungarian cinema of the '70s and '80s. Mr. Hajdu's brother, the professional gymnast Miklos Zoltan Hajdu, stars as a promising young athlete whose life is taken over by the pre-Glasnost Hungarian government. Raised like a precious farm animal, he has nowhere to turn when the system of state subsidies collapses, except to a teaching gig in Canada. Excellently shot by Andras Nagy, the film courageously resists the standard sports movie cliches of triumph and redemption. June 22 Black Sheep Zombie sheep, it seems, in a splatter comedy from New Zealand. Jonathan King directs. BROKEN ENGLISH Single and 30-ish, Nora Wilder (Parker Posey) is starting to panic. But then she meets an enchanting Frenchman (Melvil Poupaud) who promises to introduce her to a new world of culture and romance. Zoe R. Cassavetes directs; with Drea de Matteo, Griffin Dunne, Josh Hamilton and Justin Theroux. [Article, Page 3.] DOA: Dead or Alive All evidence to the contrary, somebody still seems to think that basing movies on video games is a good idea. This one is about four female martial artists invited to participate in a no-holds-barred tournament on a tiny Pacific island. Jaime Pressly is in it, with Eric Roberts. Corey Yuen, the veteran Hong Kong action director, is at the helm. Evan Almighty Hilarity ensues when God (Morgan Freeman) commands a newly elected congressman (Steve Carell) to start building an ark in his Virginia backyard. Universal has a lot riding on this big-budget (reportedly $175 million) sequel to the 2003 ''Bruce Almighty.'' Directed by Tom Shadyac, with John Goodman, Lauren Graham and Wanda Sykes. Klimt A biographical pageant staged around the diffident figure of the Austrian artist Gustav Klimt (John Malkovich) by the director Raoul Ruiz. Saffron Burrows plays Klimt's muse, Lea de Castro; Nikolai Kinski is Egon Schiele. LADY CHATTERLEY Pascale Ferran, a French filmmaker who made an impressive debut with ''Coming to Terms With the Dead'' in 1994, returns from a 12-year absence with an adaptation of the second draft of D. H. Lawrence's novel (it was the third draft that became the much censored classic). Marina Hands is the aristocratic Englishwoman who discovers the natural world through the ministrations of her gamekeeper (Jean-Louis Colloc'h). A big critical favorite in France, it won five Cesars (the French Oscars). A MIGHTY HEART Angelina Jolie plays Mariane Pearl, the wife of Daniel Pearl, the Wall Street Journal reporter who was kidnapped and killed while investigating terrorism in Pakistan. The prolific Michael Winterbottom directs. NOW AND LATER A fugitive financier (Keller Wortham) meets a sympathetic Latina (Shari Solanis) who, through a series of philosophical discussions, introduces him to the notion that money might not be everything. Philippe Diaz, a transplanted Frenchman, directs. THE REAL DIRT ON FARMER JOHN The odyssey of John Peterson, an Illinois ''farmer, artist and revolutionary thinker'' who turned his father's farm into a hippie haven in the 1960s, only to be driven into bankruptcy by the farm debt crisis of the '80s. Vilified by the locals, he leaves home and wanders through Central America, eventually returning to his homeland and creating another, more sophisticated commune on the same property. Taggart Siegel directs this documentary. You Kill Me The appealingly low-key suspense craftsman John Dahl (''The Last Seduction'') returns with the tale of a professional hitman (a bald-headed Ben Kingsley) who becomes a mortuary assistant in a misguided attempt to go straight. With Luke Wilson and Tea Leoni. June 27 Ghosts of Cite Soleil Asger Leth's documentary about the gangs that run the slums of Port au Prince, Haiti, begins as a sociological study but takes on an unexpected dramatic element, when two brothers, both gang leaders, begin to compete for the affections of a French social worker. Live Free or Die Hard Bruce Willis, 52, hobbles back into action more than a decade after ''Die Hard: With a Vengeance'' as John McClane, the New York cop who always seems to find himself at the center of terrorist attacks. This time the threat is on the Internet in the form of a monster virus that threatens to shut down the country's entire infrastructure. Leaving no cliche unturned, McClane's sidekick is a young Asian-American computer hacker (Justin Long). Len Wiseman, of the ''Underworld'' films, directs. June 29 Death at a Funeral Frank Oz directed this comedy of errors set at and around a funeral in Britain. Peter Dinklage plays a mysterious stranger, who appears amid the family bickering and threatens to reveal a devastating secret. With Matthew Macfadyen and Rupert Graves. Dr. Bronner's Magic Soapbox Sara Lamm's documentary tells the story of an extravagant eccentric, Dr. Emanuel Bronner, who introduced Dr. Bronner's Magic Soap, the favorite shampoo of the flower people and still a big seller. Evening Susan Minot's novel ''Evening,'' as adapted by Ms. Minot and Michael Cunningham (''The Hours'') and directed by the Hungarian director and cinematographer Lajos Koltai (''Fateless''). Vanessa Redgrave is the dying matriarch, trying to make sense of her life as her family gathers around her. With Claire Danes, Toni Collette, Patrick Wilson, Hugh Dancy, Meryl Streep and Glenn Close. ONE TO ANOTHER The actor-turned-director Jean-Marc Barr and his co-director, Pascal Arnold, filmed this French feature about provincial youths and the complicated sexual situations they find themselves in. With Lizzie Brochere and Arthur Dupont. Ratatouille A French rat dreams of becoming a French chef, in an animated film directed by Brad Bird, who was responsible for ''The Incredibles.'' Among the voices: Janeane Garofalo, Ian Holm, Peter O'Toole and Brian Dennehy. Vitus Tired of the attention he's getting, a 12-year-old prodigy (Teo Gheorghiu) stages a fall and pretends his special abilities have left him. With Bruno Ganz as the foxy grandpa; Fredi M. Murer directs this Swiss feature. July July 4 FLYING: CONFESSIONS OF A FREE WOMAN Jennifer Fox, a New York documentary filmmaker, turns her camera on herself and her love affairs with two men, one in Switzerland and one in South Africa. And to put things in context (the film runs six hours), she talks to women from other countries who lead lives far more circumscribed than hers. License to Wed In order to get married in the church of their choice Mandy Moore and John Krasinski have to survive a grueling marriage preparation course given by the church's autocratic pastor (Robin Williams). Let's hope it's worth it. Ken Kwapis directs. Rescue Dawn The director Werner Herzog expands his documentary short ''Little Dieter Needs to Fly'' into a fictionalized feature. Christian Bale stars as Dieter Dengler, an American pilot who was shot down over Vietnam and managed to escape from a Vietcong prison camp. With Jeremy Davies and Steve Zahn. Transformers Delaying that Proust adaptation his public has been clamoring for, the director Michael Bay (''Armageddon'') draws his source material this time from a line of toys. Shia LaBeouf plays the requisite human figure, a wily teenager who takes on an army of invading robots from outer space. Tyrese Gibson and Megan Fox lend support. July 6 The Gronholm Method Seven businessmen applying for work at a mysterious corporation discover they must survive a series of strange tests, known as the ''Gronholm Method.'' An Argentine film directed by Marcelo Pineyro that sounds like it's in the same enigmatic vein as Fabian Bielinsky's ''Aura'' and ''Nine Queens.'' Introducing the Dwights A shy 21-year-old is at the center of a battle between the sweet young woman who loves him and the mother, a professional comedian, who dominates him. With Brenda Blethyn, Khan Chittenden and Emma Booth; Cherie Nowlan directs this Australian comedy. Joshua A preternaturally intelligent child (Jacob Kogan) may or may not be behind the series of tragic accidents that strike his prosperous New York family, starting when Mom and Dad (Vera Farmiga and Sam Rockwell) bring home a new baby sister. George Ratliff (''Hell House'') directs. July 13 Drama/Mex From Mexico, three interlocking stories of love and jealousy set in the decaying resort town of Acapulco. Gerardo Naranjo directs; with Fernando Becerril and Diana Garcia. 1408 From a Stephen King story of the same, uh, number, the hair-raising tale of a supernatural researcher (John Cusack) resolved to spend the night in a haunted hotel room. Samuel L. Jackson and Mary McCormack co-star; the director is the Swedish Mikael Hafstrom (''Derailed''). Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix It's Harry's fifth year at Hogwarts (already!) and the princeling wizard must confront both a renewed threat from the evil Lord Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes) and an outbreak of academic rivalry among the staff. The motto of the series continues to be ''let no British actor remain unemployed'': Helena Bonham Carter, Robbie Coltrane, Michael Gambon, Brendan Gleeson, Richard Griffiths,Jason Isaacs, Gary Oldman, Alan Rickman, Fiona Shaw, Maggie Smith, Imelda Staunton, David Thewlis, Emma Thompson and Julie Walters are among the cast. Interview Steve Buscemi directs and stars in an adaptation of a 2003 feature by the assassinated Dutch filmmaker Theo van Gogh. Mr. Buscemi plays a veteran political reporter who feels humiliated when an editor assigns him to write a profile of a soap opera star (Sienna Miller). Laura Smiles A suburban housewife (Petra Wright) deals with the repressed trauma of her lover's death almost a decade ago by throwing herself into a series of degrading affairs. Jason Ruscio directs; with Kip Pardue and Jonathan Silverman. My Best Friend A work-obsessed art dealer (Daniel Auteuil) has 10 days to prove to his business partner that he has at least one close friend, so he hires an amicable taxi driver (Dany Boon) to teach him how to make friends. With Julie Gayet; directed by Patrice Leconte (''The Hairdresser's Husband''). Talk to Me Don Cheadle stars in the true story of Ralph Waldo (Petey) Greene Jr., a Washington D.J. who became a voice for African-Americans in the city. Kasi Lemmons directs; with Chiwetel Ejiofor, Mike Epps and Martin Sheen. The Strangers Scott Speedman and Liv Tyler settle into their new vacation home but are interrupted by three masked intruders who proceed to do horror movie things to them. With Kip Weeks as ''Masked Stranger''; Bryan Bertino directs. Tekkonkinkreet The animated adventures of a pair of street kids, set in a Tokyo of the dystopian future called ''Treasure Town.'' Michael Arias directed -- reportedly, the first Westerner to direct a Japanese anime -- from the Japanese comic book by Taiyo Matsumoto. July 18 Live-In Maid The deteriorating relationship between a wealthy Buenos Aires woman (Norma Aleandro) and her servant of 30 years. (Does it mean something that the actress who plays her is named Norma Argentina?) Directed by Jorge Gaggero. July 20 Arctic Tale A walrus and a polar bear grow up in the vast northern wilderness, in this summer's cool-down documentary from the producers of ''March of the Penguins.'' Queen Latifah narrates. Fierce People Diane Lane as a drug-addicted, part-time masseuse who schemes to get herself and her teenage son out of the Lower East Side and into an exclusive gated community, where things don't look that much better. Dirk Wittenborn adapted his own novel; with Donald Sutherland, Kristen Stewart and Anton Yelchin. Directed by Griffin Dunne. Goya's Ghosts No one is expecting the Spanish Inquisition, least of all the beautiful Ines (Natalie Portman), the daughter of a prosperous merchant and the mistress of a haunted painter named Goya (Stellan Skarsgard). Milos Forman directs this period drama, starring Javier Bardem, Jose Luis Gomez, and Randy Quaid as King Carlos IV. Hairspray John Waters's 1988 camp comedy, about a Baltimore teenager who strikes a blow for civil rights, comes full circle -- now, it's a movie again, albeit one with a PG rating and a Broadway score. Mr. Waters of course has been kept far away from this potential cash cow, and the direction has been turned over to the former choreographer Adam Shankman. John Travolta, in Divine drag, stars as the teenager's concerned mom; with Michelle Pfeiffer, Queen Latifah, Christopher Walken, Amanda Bynes, and a newcomer, Nikki Blonsky, as Tracy Turnblad.[Article, Page 11.] I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry Adam Sandler and Kevin James as a pair of testosterone-oozing firemen who, for reasons having something to do with insurance (and a lot to do with getting the plot in motion) must pretend to be a happily domestic gay couple. You guessed it: hilarity ensues. Directed by Dennis Dugan from a script by Barry Fanaro and the team of Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor; with Jessica Biel, Steve Buscemi, Dan Aykroyd and Ving Rhames. Prisoner A self-reflexive splatter film? Julian McMahon of ''Nip/Tuck'' plays a Hollywood director who is scouting locations at an abandoned prison when he's abducted by a mysterious figure who calls himself the Jailer (Elias Koteas). Now he must answer for his sins, which might include making films like this one. Written and directed by David Alford and Robert Archer Lynn. The Camden 28 Anthony Giacchino's documentary revisits the case of the Camden 28, a group of antiwar Vietnam veterans arrested in 1971 for breaking into a draft board office. July 27 Adrenaline Robert Archer Lynn, the director of this thriller, claims to have brought off the longest continuous shot in American movie history, thanks to his handy JVC GY-HD100U camcorder: a single, 90-minute take that comprises this movie's entire running time. David Alford, who wrote the screenplay with Mr. Lynn, stars as the owner of a spanking new Jeep who must drive around town following the orders of a mysterious caller -- or the caller will kill his child. I Know Who Killed Me When the police rescue young Aubrey Fleming (Lindsay Lohan) from a brutal kidnapper, she comes home with a drastically different personality, so different that her parents (Julia Ormond and Neal McDonough) come to believe her claim that she is someone else entirely, and the real Aubrey remains in danger. Chris Sivertson directs. Moliere The hot young French actor Romain Duris plays the great playwright in a biographical fantasy from the director Laurent Tirard, who imagines Moliere involved in some ''Tartuffe''-like shenanigans in the home of a wealthy man (Fabrice Luchini) with a beautiful wife (Laura Morante). With Edouard Baer and Ludivine Sagnier. No End in Sight To explore the causes of the current situation in Iraq, Charles Ferguson's documentary draws on witnesses from inside the Bush administration, including the former deputy secretary of state Richard L. Armitage and Lawrence Wilkerson, once chief of staff to Colin L. Powell. No Reservations The Australian director Scott Hicks, still looking for another ''Shine,'' tells the story of a famous chef (Catherine Zeta-Jones) whose priorities change when she is put in charage of her young niece (Abigail Breslin). It's a remake of the 2001 German film ''Mostly Martha.'' With Aaron Eckhart, Bob Balaban and Patricia Clarkson. Skinwalkers Timothy (Matthew Knight) is about to turn 13, at which point his werewolf genes will kick in. Luckily he belongs to a clan of good werewolves (Barbara Gordon, Elias Koteas) who will do what they can to protect him from the bad sort (led by Jason Behr and Kim Coates). James Isaac directs. The Simpsons Movie Yes, a movie with the Simpsons in it. As usual Homer must save the world from a disaster of his own devising. And that's about all the studio is saying. David Silverman directs, with the usual voice cast: Dan Castellaneta, Julie Kavner, Nancy Cartwright, Yeardley Smith, Hank Azaria and Harry Shearer. [Article, Page 10.] This Is England The British director Shane Meadows (''Once Upon a Time in the Midlands'') relates a story from his 1980s childhood, in which he is befriended by a gang of skinheads. With Thomas Turgoose and Stephen Graham. THE WILLOW TREE Blind for 38 years, an Iranian man regains his eyesight after an operation in Paris. But can he ever really return to the country of his birth, now that he literally sees it in a different light? Majid Majidi, not the most challenging of the Iranian filmmakers (''Baran'') but certainly the most open to the West, is the director of this 2005 production. August Aug. 1 El Cantante Marc Anthony as the salsa musician Hector Lavoe, battling drug addiction with the help of his wife, Puchi (Jennifer Lopez). Leon Ichaso (''Pinero'') directs. Summer '04 A middle-aged woman finds herself competing with an adolescent girl for the attentions of the bachelor next door. From Germany; directed by Stefan Krohmer. Aug. 3 Becoming Jane Having run through the Jane Austen novels, the British cinema now turns to Jane herself, played by Anne Hathaway as a frisky young woman who has a romance with a visiting Irish lawyer (James McAvoy). The usual suspects appear in support: Julie Walters, James Cromwell, Maggie Smith, Ian Richardson. Directed by Julian Jarrold.[Article, Page 3.] The Bourne Ultimatum Matt Damon returns as the former C.I.A. officer in search of his own identity; this time he finds a journalist (Paddy Considine) who claims to know all about the shadowy branch of the agency that scrubbed his mind and turned him into a killer. With David Strathairn, Joan Allen and Julia Stiles; Paul Greengrass directs from a script by Tony Gilroy. Charlie Bartlett Anton Yelchin plays the title character, a rich kid who fancies himself the unofficial psychiatric counselor of his high school. Jon Poll, long an ace comedy editor, makes his directing debut. Hot Rod Andy Samberg becomes the latest ''Saturday Night Live'' cast member to land a movie; he plays a young man with stepfather issues and a fixation on jumping over 15 school buses with his motorcycle. Resurrecting the Champ A promising young sportswriter (Josh Hartnett) finds a former boxing champion (Samuel L. Jackson) living on the streets and tries to help him put his life back together. But because this is a movie, the writer discovers a lot more about himself and his own recent decision to leave his wife and young son. Rod Lurie directs. Summer Palace According to Variety, this is the first mainland Chinese film to feature full frontal nudity and to depict the Tiananmen Square demonstration, but the real reason that the director, Lou Ye (''Purple Butterfly''), got in trouble with the Chinese authorities is that he didn't ask permission before entering his feature in last year's Cannes festival. The Ten Ten, as in those pesky Commandments, all of which come in for some good-natured ribbing in this episodic comedy directed by David Wain. The all-cameo cast includes Jessica Alba, Famke Janssen, Gretchen Mol, Winona Ryder and Liev Schreiber. Underdog A merely mortal beagle acquires superpowers, as well as the voice of Jason Lee, when a mad scientist accidentally involves him in an experiment. The CGI effects are spookily realistic in the trailer. With Peter Dinklage, Patrick Warburton and James Belushi; directed by Frederik Du Chau (''Racing Stripes''). [Article, Page 1.] Aug. 10 Bratz The poofy-lipped, shopaholic dolls in their first movie, introducing youngsters all over the world to the importance of having a ''passion for fashion.'' Oddly this is not CGI; the characters are played by human beings: Malese Jow, Skyler Shaye, Janel Parrish and Nathalia Ramos. The tweener king Sean McNamara (''That's So Raven'') directed. Chak de India After the celebration of cricket in ''Lagaan'' here's a Bollywood movie about field hockey. Shahrukh Khan (''Devdas'') is the disgraced former player who finds a route to redemption by coaching a girls' team. Shimit Amin directs. Cronica de una fuga From Argentina a story from the dark days of the 1970s, involving the kidnapping of a soccer player. Directed by Israel Adrian Caetano. Daddy Day Camp Fred Savage, the former child star of ''The Wonder Years,'' all grown up and directing a sequel to Eddie Murphy's 2003 hit, ''Daddy Day Care.'' Eddie wasn't available this time, so the filmmakers got the next best thing: Cuba Gooding Jr. Hilarity, it goes without saying, ensues. Rocket Science Sounds like the indie distributors are still chasing the next ''Napoleon Dynamite.'' This one is about a shy teenager (Reece Daniel Thompson) with a stuttering problem who joins the debate team, hoping to win the respect of the girl of his dreams (Anna Kendrick). The fiction feature debut of the documentary maker Jeffrey Blitz (''Spellbound''). Rush Hour 3 The director Brett Ratner delivers up a second sequel to his 1998 buddy picture, about a straight-arrow Chinese cop (Jackie Chan) and a frisky New York City detective (Chris Tucker). This time they're in Paris, battling, it says here, the Chinese Triads. But it's the supporting cast that fascinates: Max von Sydow and Roman Polanski. The Signal A mysterious signal sent out over the television, radio and cellphone networks turns most Americans into crazed killers. (No, that signal is not titled ''The View.'') David Bruckner, Dan Bush and Jacob Gentry directed this three-part film. Stardust An adaptation of Neil Gaiman's fantasy novel, in which the heroic young Tristran (Charlie Cox) leaves his cozy English village in pursuit of a fallen star, discovers instead Claire Danes, a damsel in need of rescuing from the evil heirs of a dying king (Peter O'Toole). With Michelle Pfeiffer as a witch and Robert De Niro as the captain of a flying pirate ship. Matthew Vaughn (''Layer Cake'') directs. 2 Days in Paris The actress Julie Delpy is the director and co-writer of this bilingual comedy, in which a French woman (Ms. Delpy) takes her American boyfriend (Adam Goldberg) to meet her parents (played by Ms. Delpy's actual parents) in Paris. L'hilarite s'ensuit! Aug. 15 Love for Sale An attractive and unscrupulous young woman (Hermila Guedes) returns to her hometown in rural Brazil, where she creates a scandal among the tradition-bound residents. Directed by Karim Ainouz (''Madame Sata''). Aug. 17 Havoc Expecting to participate in a paint-ball tournament, five friends instead find themselves facing a psychotic killer in an abandoned prison. Next time, rent the GPS unit. With Jason Lewis; Robert Archer Lynn directs. The Invasion Yet another adaptation of Jack Finney's novel ''The Body Snatchers,'' about aliens who are able to turn themselves into perfect human replicas, minus all feelings of compassion. Appropriately the setting has been shifted to Washington, where a perceptive psychiatrist (Nicole Kidman) has begun to suspect that not all is well. Oliver Hirschbiegel, last seen on these shores with ''Downfall,'' his German-language Hitler film, directs. The King of Kong Last year, spelling bees. This year, video game championships. Seth Gordon's documentary follows the decades-long struggle for dominance among Donkey Kong players. Penelope Fresh from her whippin' in ''Black Snake Moan,'' here's Christina Ricci as a fairy tale princess with a (prosthetic) nose like a pig's. Richard E. Grant and Catherine O'Hara are her wealthy parents, auditioning suitors for the unfortunate young woman. Mark Palansky directs; with James McAvoy and a cameo by one of the film's producers, Reese Witherspoon. [Article, Page 3.] Superbad More than 10 years and an apprenticeship with Woody Allen separate Greg Mottola's promising first feature, ''The Daytrippers,'' from this, his second. Michael Cera and Jonah Hill are best friends, determined to spend at least one night on the wild side before college. Wedding Daze Formerly titled ''The Next Girl I See'' and ''The Pleasure of Your Company,'' Michael Ian Black's film is about a young man (Jason Biggs) who, after being dumped by his longtime girlfriend, impulsively proposes to a waitress (Isla Fisher). Aug. 22 Out of the Blue The true story of a lone gunman who terrorized a small town in New Zealand, leaving 13 dead after his rampage. Robert Sarkies directs; Matthew Sunderland plays the shooter. Aug. 24 The Comebacks The losingest college football coach in recorded history (David Koechner) assembles a new team of misfits and losers, hoping for the best. Tom Brady directs this comedy with Carl Weathers, Andy Dick and Dennis Rodman. Good Luck Chuck Noticing that every woman he sleeps with goes on to marry her next beau, the enterprising Stu (Dane Cook) starts renting himself out as a good luck charm, until Jessica Alba comes along. Directed by Mark Helfrich. [Article, Page 11.] The Hottest State Ethan Hawke directs this indie feature, based on his novel, about an aspiring actor (Mark Webber) who gets dumped by his girlfriend (Catalina Sandino Moreno), a hopeful singer-songwriter. With Laura Linney, Michelle Williams, Sonia Braga and Mr. Hawke. The Last Legion As the Roman Empire collapses, its last emperor, 12-year-old Romulus Augustus (Thomas Sangster), looks for a way of escaping to Britain, where the last loyal legion is said to be found. Doug Lefler directs; with Aishwarya Rai and one of those Briton-heavy supporting casts considered essential for tales of ancient Rome: Colin Firth, Ben Kingsley, Peter Mullan, John Hannah and Iain Glen. Aug. 29 The Monastery: Mr. Vig and the Nun An eccentric Dane donates his rundown chateau to the Russian Orthodox Church to use as a monastery. This documentary by Pernille Rose Gronkjaer follows the first year of transition, as the spectacularly bearded Mr. Vig faces off with the tiny Russian nun in charge of the project. Aug. 31 Bordertown The director Gregory Nava, who nudged Jennifer Lopez toward stardom with ''Selena,'' reunites with her for a fictionalized treatment of the plague of unsolved murders of women in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. Ms. Lopez plays a Chicago reporter looking into the killings, and somehow finds NAFTA implicated. With Antonio Banderas and Sonia Braga. The Brothers Solomon Bob Odenkirk (''Mr. Show'') tries again to translate his offbeat humor to the big screen; this one at least sounds funnier than ''Let's Go to Prison.'' A comedy about two nerdy brothers desperately searching for wives, in hopes of fulfilling their promise to their dying father that they will give him grandchildren. With Will Forte, Jenna Fischer, Will Arnett and Kristen Wiig. Death Sentence James Wan, the director of the moralizing torture tale ''Saw,'' returns with another story of righteous vengeance, as a father (Kevin Bacon) sets out to kill the gang members who attacked his family. Halloween The director and musician Rob Zombie offers a straight remake of a crucial bit of Americana, John Carpenter's 1978 ''Halloween.'' Scout Taylor-Compton steps into the (metaphorically) big shoes of Jamie Lee Curtis, as the plucky babysitter faced with an escaped homicidal maniac. The casting suggests a certain camp approach: Malcolm McDowell, Brad Dourif, William Forsythe, Udo Kier, Danny Trejo, Dee Wallace Stone and Adrienne Barbeau. Ladron que roba a ladron Joe Menendez directed this Spanish-language comedy about a pair of thieves who plan to rob the mansion of a television infomercial magnate. With Fernando Colunga and Miguel Varoni. Tre Daniel Cariaga plays the title character, a Santa Monica slacker whose casual seduction of a married woman (Alix Koromzay) leads to complications for everyone around them. Eric Byler, of the accomplished ''Charlotte Sometimes,'' directs this indie feature. The Wedding Director The endearingly rumpled Italian actor Sergio Castellitto plays a famous filmmaker who, thanks to a series of coincidences, ends up in Sicily videotaping the wedding of the wealthy young woman (Donatella Finocchiaro) with whom he's secretly in love. Marco Bellocchio directs. Wristcutters: A Love Story Sent to a bureaucratic purgatory for suicides, Patrick Fugit searches for the woman he once loved, helped by new friends Shea Whigham and Shannyn Sossamon. Goran Dukic directs. September Sept. 5 Addicted A thriller centered on a peculiar notion: A car accident leaves two brothers in a coma; when one of them wakes up, he believes he's the other guy -- the one married to Sarah Michelle Gellar. Joel Bergvall and Simon Sandquist directed this remake of the Korean film ''Jungdok.'' Salvador Allende Patricio Guzman, the Chilean filmmaker best known for his epic documentary ''The Battle of Chile,'' presents a profile of the doctor-turned-politician who became a perceived threat to the United States when elected president of Chile on a socialist platform. Sept. 7 The Bubble The ''bubble'' in Eytan Fox's film is the city of Tel Aviv, which he sees as isolated from the country's greater struggles. The bubble breaks when an Israeli soldier falls in love with a Palestinian man, and tries to find a way to keep him in Tel Aviv. Hatchet More stranded tourists, more backwoods butchery, this time in the Louisiana bayous. Adam Green directs. In the Shadow of the Moon Members of the Apollo mission teams tell their stories in a documentary by David Sington. The Nanny Diaries The roman a clef about a college student (Scarlett Johansson) who goes to work as a nanny for an Upper East Side couple identified as Mr. and Mrs. X (Paul Giamatti and Laura Linney). Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini direct. Shoot 'Em Up An unapologetic action film, starring Clive Owen as a mysterious gunman who manages to deliver Monica Bellucci's baby during a shoot-out, and then must protect her and the child from a demented master criminal, Paul Giamatti. Michael Davis directs. Trade A Texas policeman (Kevin Kline) teams up with a Mexican teenager (Cesar Ramos) to find the boy's younger sister, kidnapped by an international ring of human traffickers. With Alicja Bachleda-Curus. Marco Kreuzpaintner directs. [Article, Page 11.]

GRAPHIC: Photos: Back from the bog, the characters of ''Shrek the Third'': left to right, Donkey (with the voice Eddie Murphy), Puss in Boots (Antonio Banderas), Shrek (Mike Myers), Artie (Justin Timberlake) and Merlin (Eric Idle). (Photo by DreamWorks Animation)
Left, top to bottom, Geoffrey Rush and Johnny Depp in ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At the End of the World''
Samuel Boidin and Adelaide Leroux in ''Flanders''
Catherine McCormack screams from a window in ''28 Weeks Later''
and Vincenzo Amato (partly buried) and Aurora Quattrocchi in ''The Golden Door.'' (Photo by Disney Enterprises)
(Photo by International Film Circuit)
(Photo by Fox Atomic)
(Photo by Miramax Films)(pg. 18)
In Brad Bird's animated film ''Ratatouille,'' below, a French rat dares to dream the dream: he'd like to be a chef. (Photo by Pixar Animation Studios)
Hugh Dancy and Claire Danes in Lajos Koltai's ''Evening,'' based on Susan Minot's novel. (Photo by Gene Page/Focus Features)
''Ocean's Thirteen,'' right, from the director Steven Soderbergh, has a cast of not-quite-thousands, including, from left, George Clooney, Elliott Gould and Matt Damon. (Photo by Melinda Sue Gordon/Warner Brothers Pictures)
In ''A Mighty Heart,'' Angelina Jolie, right, plays Mariane Pearl, the wife of the Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, who was kidnapped and killed in Pakistan. (Photo by Peter Mountain/Paramount Vantage)
Jean-Louis Colloc'h and Marina Hands in Pascale Ferran's ''Lady Chatterley.'' (Photo by Kino International)(pg. 20)
Aaron Eckhart and Catherine Zeta-Jones in Scott Hicks's ''No Reservations.'' (Photo by David Lee/Warner Brothers Pictures and Village Roadshow Pictures)
Daniel Auteuil, left, and Dany Boon in ''My Best Friend,'' about a man looking for a pal. (Photo by IFC Films)
''Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix'' finds Harry (Daniel Radcliffe, above) in his fifth year at Hogwarts. The supporting cast includes Ralph Fiennes and Michael Gambon. (Photo by Murray Close/Warner Brothers Pictures)
A Bonecrusher, above, on a rampage in ''Transformers,'' the new film by Michael Bay (''Armageddon''), which is based on a line of toys. (Photo by DreamWorks LLC/Paramount)(pg. 22)
Matt Damon returns as a former C.I.A. officer in search of his own identity in Paul Greengrass's ''Bourne Ultimatum.'' (Photo by Jasin Boland/Universal Pictures)
A scene from ''Stardust,'' based on Neil Gaiman's fantasy novel, with damsels in distress, evil kings, witches and flying pirate ships. (Photo by David James/Paramount Pictures)
Julie Delpy and Adam Goldberg, above, in ''2 Days in Paris,'' a bilingual comedy directed by Ms. Delpy. (Photo by Samuel Goldwyn Films)
In the biopic ''El Cantante,'' Marc Anthony, right, plays the salsa musician Hector Lavoe. Directed by Leon Ichaso, the film also stars Jennifer Lopez. (Photo by Eric Liebowitz/Picturehouse)(pg. 24)
Bruce Willis, left, takes on the role of John McClane again in ''Live Free or Die Hard,'' also starring Justin Long, right. (Photo by Frank Masi/20th Century Fox)(pg. 28)
 A scene from ''Paprika,'' directed by Satoshi Kon, a master of anime. (Photo by Sony Pictures Classics)(pg. 28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); COMEDY FILMS (89%); DRAMA FILMS (89%); FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); MARRIAGE (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (70%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (68%); TERRORISM (67%); RELIGION (67%); CYCLING (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); POKER (50%) Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BAY (79%); DANIEL RADCLIFFE (76%); DANIEL AUTEUIL (73%); MATT DAMON (71%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (68%); DREW BARRYMORE (57%); EDDIE MURPHY (56%); JOHNNY DEPP (56%); ANGELINA JOLIE (56%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (54%); GEORGE CLOONEY (53%); BRUCE WILLIS (53%) Dave Kehr

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%) QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); UTAH, USA (51%) PAKISTAN (79%); CANADA (73%); FRANCE (66%); UNITED STATES (51%); BELGIUM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



126 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Forget Who'll Win in France. Change Is a Loser.

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
IN the months leading up to today's presidential voting in France, there was a lot of talk about breaking with the past. Don't bet it will happen. 
 The French are notoriously resistant to change, and any new president would be hard-pressed to deliver any dramatic departure from the way people here live and work and get along with each other (or don't).
It was the French, after all, who first observed, ''the more things change, the more they remain the same.'' 
 ''I have the impression that things will move, yes. But will France resemble Britain? No,'' said Michel Winock, a French historian, referring obliquely to Margaret Thatcher's 1980s showdown with British unions and the eventual economic boom her policies helped bring. ''We have traditions, attitudes, an attachment to social welfare and, even if change is desirable, we won't accept change overnight.''
 How can that be? The candidates, Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal, each promised to remake France, deploring the joblessness, the bloated bureaucracy, the lack of entrepreneurial spirit. Mr. Sarkozy has proposed something approaching the Thatcher revolution, while Ms. Royal even suggested scrapping the Fifth Republic. But all that talk ignored two realities:
 First, life in France is, on the whole, plenty comfortable. The French flirt with the idea of change, but few in the mainstream want to risk losing France's ''exceptionalism'' -- that warm bed of traditions and entitlements that lets so many enjoy the benefits of living here. 
 And the benefits are great. Listen to the conversation with the waiter at the table next to you in a Parisian restaurant at lunchtime and more often than not it will involve a nuanced discussion of what is best to eat and just which wine to drink. Later, the diners will often pay with meal vouchers from their employer.
 Cumbersome and costly as the system may be, it's not exactly broken. So why risk trouble? 
 Second, there is something about the French that resists a change, even in times of trouble. Historians famously trace it to the Enlightenment, when France developed a republican model based on the collective will. By contrast, republican models in Britain and America stressed the primacy of economics and individualism -- what the French still, with a shudder, call liberalism.
 ''French society remains attached to the idea of the collective,'' said Jean-Claude Mailly, national secretary of the Force Ouvriere union federation. ''A whole series of things are managed collectively.'' And that, by its nature, makes things move more slowly than Americans are accustomed to.
 Unions and business federations, as sectors of society, are expected to be consulted before legislation is put on the French agenda, for example -- a more deliberate, if more open, practice than interest-group lobbying as practiced in the United States. 
 Of course, France has problems, but a look at some of the most pressing ones shows plenty of room for people to feel smug. 
 Yes, the economy is sluggish: growth is slow and unemployment is high -- about 2.1 percent and 8.5 percent, respectively. But France continues to draw large amounts of foreign direct investment, and in 2005, economic output per hour worked was higher than in the United States. The World Health Organization rates the French health care system among the best in the world.
 Yes, young people are rebelling: second-generation immigrants took to the streets in 2005 to protest joblessness and discrimination, and college students did something similar last year to protest a law that would have made it easier to fire them from their first jobs.
 But as bad as the urban unrest was, it never reached the level of violence seen in periods of unrest in American cities. The more equitable social welfare system here, which is often blamed for some of France's economic problems, is one reason.
 Yes, life is expensive: a web of protectionist regulations has kept a lid on the ability to save money at discount stores and restaurant chains. But that has also kept neighborhood bistros and bakers and cheese shops and charcuteries in business far longer than in most other developed economies, creating a rich fabric of daily life that everyone loves. It is one reason France draws more tourists than any other country each year.
 All of this gives the French good reason to stick with their basic philosophy on dealing with troubled institutions: rather than chop them down and build something new, the French prefer to prune.
 Take the 35-hour workweek. Both candidates agreed that the law imposing it causes problems for businesses and needs to be amended, but neither proposed scrapping it. ''It is very difficult to reverse social benefits like this,'' Mr. Winock said.
 Still, the candidates had a wish list for changes. 
 Ms. Royal had a 100-point plan that included raising the minimum wage, making school compulsory from the age of 3 and regularizing illegal immigrants. Her biggest project: to create a Sixth Republic with a stronger, more representative Parliament. 
 But she insisted that she would not do anything dramatic without long discussions with her ''social partners'' -- French shorthand for unions and employers. That's a script for a slow-motion struggle toward change that is incremental, if it occurs at all.
 Luc Rouban, an expert on France's public sector, said, ''There is no tradition of cooperation, no common ground between the two main actors, unions and employers.''
 Mr. Sarkozy promised pension reforms and limits on unions' ability to strike. Already, the most critical union federations are warning him to expect people in the streets if he tries to push through either change. 
 ''Radical change in an authoritarian manner will lead to a situation of blockage,'' said Michel Grignard, national secretary of the French Democratic Confederation of Labor. French unions are strong in part because the right to strike is written into the Constitution. 
 And then there is the French love of their vacations. 
 Parliament usually is away from mid-July to October, but Mr. Sarkozy has suggested he would call a special session to push through legislation while most of the French are vacationing -- and when it would be hard for unions to mobilize them. 
 The unions warned against it. ''Whoever is elected president, if he or she thinks there are things that must be decided very fast, in a flash, and pass them in July, watch out,'' said Mr. Mailly of the Force Ouvriere federation. ''There'll eventually be a boomerang effect.''
 Which is to say, a pruning effect. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Any Old Time -- As even its presidential candidates must acknowledge, the more time passes in France, the more things stay the same. (This picture was taken almost 25 years ago). (Photo by John Vink/Magnum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); LIBERALISM (68%) Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: SEGOLENE ROYAL (88%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (88%) Craig S Smith; Nicolas Sarkozy; Segolene Royal

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



127 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Hail to the Analysand

BYLINE: By George Prochnik. 
George Prochnik is the author of ''Putnam Camp: Sigmund Freud, James Jackson Putnam and the Purpose of American Psychology.''

 BODY:
WHEN a pretension to free the world from evil ends only in a new proof of the danger of a fanatic to the commonweal, then it is not to be marveled at that a distrust is aroused in the observer which makes sympathy impossible.'' 
 This bit of mordant critique does not come from a spectator of the current quagmire in Iraq, but from the founder of psychoanalysis, reflecting on the negotiations that concluded World War I and helped lay the groundwork for World War II. Today, on the 151st anniversary of Freud's birthday -- and a little more than four years since President Bush delivered his ''Mission Accomplished'' speech -- we might do well to revisit an aspect of Freud's thought that has been obscured by the more strident arguments for and against his overarching theory of the mind. 
''Thomas Woodrow Wilson,'' a biography of America's 28th president that Freud wrote over the last decade of his life with a young diplomat named William C. Bullitt, is among the least-read volumes in the psychoanalytic canon. But in it Freud, the perennial foe of politics conducted under the mantle of divine inspiration, provided lessons even for those skeptical of Freud himself. 
 Bullitt had served under Wilson on the American Peace Commission in Paris in 1919, but resigned his post to protest the terms of the treaty, from its reparation clauses to its reapportionment of territory. He became acquainted with Freud in Berlin in the 1920s and mentioned to him that he'd decided to write about the negotiations. Before Bullitt broached the subject, Freud, already suffering from cancer of the jaw, had been lamenting that his own death would be insignificant since he had nothing more to say. But as Bullitt described his idea, in which studies of the principal actors at Versailles would elucidate the reasons behind the treaty's failure, ''Freud's eyes brightened,'' Bullitt recalled, ''and he became very much alive.'' Freud implored Bullitt to allow him to write the chapter on Wilson. 
 What stirred Freud to undertake this project at a moment of tremendous strain on his time and energies? In the book's introduction, Freud recounted an incident in which Wilson, as president-elect, deflected a colleague who had mentioned how he had contributed to the success of Wilson's campaign. ''God ordained that I should be the next president of the United States,'' Wilson retorted. ''Neither you nor any other mortal or mortals could have prevented it.'' 
 Freud remarked: ''I do not know how to avoid the conclusion that a man who is capable of taking the illusions of religion so literally and is so sure of a special personal intimacy with the Almighty is unfitted for relations with ordinary children of men. As everyone knows, the hostile camp during the war also sheltered a chosen darling of Providence: the German kaiser. It was most regrettable that later on the other side a second appeared. No one gained thereby: respect for God was not increased.'' 
 For Freud, Wilson demonstrated the irresponsibility of entering the fray of world politics with a conviction that one's position would triumph because it embodied divine will. In Freud and Bullitt's interpretation, Wilson appeared at the negotiating table with his Fourteen Points and his larger, God-sanctioned vision of global harmony; when this platform was not universally embraced he had no viable fallback position. Wilson realized that he could not impose his revelation of utopian democracy on Europe, and his entire negotiating position crumbled. He surrendered America's diplomatic authority to the machinations of Clemenceau and Lloyd George, who proceeded to impose the economically crippling terms on the Central Powers that helped shape the future political landscapes of Germany and Austria.
 Wilson, Freud wrote, ''repeatedly declared that mere facts had no significance for him.'' ''Noble intentions'' were what counted. Thus, while Wilson came to France intent on bringing a ''just and lasting peace'' to Europe, he ''put himself in the deplorable position of the benefactor who wishes to restore the eyesight of a patient but does not know the construction of the eye and has neglected to learn the necessary methods of operation.'' 
 The alternative for Freud was not neutrality. Given his overweening consciousness of the brutality lurking just beneath the surface of every human being, Freud could not, despite his distaste for Wilson's role at Versailles, defend political quiescence. But what Freud did believe was that governments -- like individuals -- must strive to examine and to acknowledge as clearly and unsentimentally as possible the motivations behind policy. If one acts on a delusional premise, one's actions will only coordinate with their real world object randomly, if at all. 
 Near the conclusion of ''Civilization and Its Discontents,'' Freud wrote, ''One thing only do I know for certain and that is that man's judgments of value follow directly his wishes for happiness -- that, accordingly, they are an attempt to support his illusions with arguments.'' Be afraid of the leader who refuses to look in the mirror, Freud argued -- or, he might have added, the one who says he won't ''go on the couch'' to reflect upon earlier policy decisions, as President Bush memorably declared in 2004. 
 The mission of self-scrutiny is never accomplished, but our worthwhile ideals will survive a vigorous skepticism, even if we lose a few illusions about the unique superiority of those ideals along the way. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Edel Rodriguez) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (76%); WORLD WAR I (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); RELIGION (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%); RESIGNATIONS (50%) United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US); United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) George Prochnik; Sigmund (1856-1939) Freud; Woodrow (1856-1924) Wilson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



128 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 784 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:
 EVERYMAN, by Philip Roth. (Vintage International, $13.) A nameless protagonist grapples with aging, physical decline and impending death in this slender, elegant novel. Roth begins with Everyman's end: the novel opens at his funeral, and goes back in time as he ponders his middle-class New Jersey boyhood, his successful advertising career on Madison Avenue, his three failed marriages and a series of increasingly frequent health crises. ''Everyman'' won the 2007 PEN/Faulkner award for fiction. 
''Roth takes the writer's free acknowledgment of many literary modes,'' Nadine Gordimer wrote in the Book Review, ''while unceasingly experimenting with his own.'' IRAN AWAKENING: One Woman's Journey to Reclaim Her Life and Country, by Shirin Ebadi with Azadeh Moaveni. (Random House, $14.95.) Ebadi, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003, was stripped of her judgeship when the Islamic revolution overthrew the shah in 1979. ''I was a woman, and this revolution's victory demanded my defeat,'' Ebadi writes in this memoir, which describes her tireless efforts as a lawyer and human rights activist. THE DOCTOR'S DAUGHTER, by Hilma Wolitzer. (Ballantine, $13.95.) After 12 years of silence, Wolitzer wrote this fast-paced family drama about Alice Brill, a 51-year-old wife, mother and frustrated writer. As her marriage languishes and her once-authoritative father sinks into dementia, Alice is forced to confront the illusions she has created about herself and her family. RESTLESS GIANT: The United States From Watergate to Bush v. Gore, by James T. Patterson. (Oxford University, $18.95.) This is an impressive history -- social, economic and political -- of late-20th-century America, from Richard Nixon's departure from the White House and America's departure from Vietnam to the bitter partisanship of Bill Clinton's impeachment and Bush v. Gore. Picking up where his previous volume, ''Grand Expectations: The United States, 1945-1974,'' left off, Patterson traces the collapse of the Soviet Union, the ''culture wars,'' the national debate over abortion and the Republican takeover of Washington. ''This is first-rate history by a first-rate historian,'' our reviewer, Charles Peters, wrote. A LAND OF GHOSTS: The Braided Lives of People and the Forest in Far Western Amazonia, by David G. Campbell. (Rutgers University, $18.95.) Over the last 30 years, Campbell has been conducting ecological studies in the Amazon, ''the last continent-sized stretch of untrammeled wilderness on earth.'' In ''A Land of Ghosts'' he takes readers on an odyssey upriver, mapping the plant species and exploring what he calls ''one of the great and enduring conundrums of nature'': how the Amazon's many species have evolved, and how they coexist. COME TOGETHER, FALL APART: A Novella and Stories, by Cristina HenrAquez. (Riverhead, $14.) HenrAquez's first collection provides intense close-ups of young Panamanians whose lives are in enormous flux. One story, ''Ashes,'' follows the unraveling effects of a mother's sudden death on her daughter. A DEATH IN BELMONT, by Sebastian Junger. (Harper Perennial, $14.95.) Junger, the author of ''The Perfect Storm,'' explores a brutal strangling that took place in his hometown, Belmont, Mass., in 1963, and asks whether the man convicted of the crime -- a black day laborer -- was, in fact, innocent and whether Albert DeSalvo, the self-confessed Boston Strangler, could have committed the crime instead. (DeSalvo worked for Junger's parents for several months during 1962 and 1963, and was at their home the day of the murder.) JOSEPH SMITH: Rough Stone Rolling, by Richard Lyman Bushman with the assistance of Jed Woodworth. (Vintage, $18.95.) In 1827 Joseph Smith, a barely literate 21-year-old, discovered a set of golden plates in rural upstate New York, whose unfamiliar characters he translated into the 584-page Book of Mormon. Bushman, an emeritus professor of history at Columbia and a practicing Mormon, carefully balances reverence and objectivity as he recounts how Smith went on to organize a church, found cities and attract thousands of followers before his assassination in 1844. ''Once the reader despairs of ever finding out whether Smith was God's own spokesman or the L. Ron Hubbard of his day, it's possible to enjoy a tale that's as colorful, suspenseful and unlikely as any in American history,'' Walter Kirn wrote here. WHITEMAN, by Tony D'Souza. (Harvest/Harcourt, $13.) In D'Souza's intensely observed first novel, Jack Diaz, a 20-something from Chicago, recalls his hapless years as a relief worker in coup-ridden Ivory Coast, where he discovered ways of coping with cultural dislocation and changed the world very little. Ihsan Taylor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); HISTORY (68%); JUDGES (67%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (63%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (60%); RELIGION (53%); LAWYERS (51%); ABORTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); RICHARD NIXON (53%); AL GORE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007



129 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: A Big Stretch

BYLINE: By Suketu Mehta. 
Suketu Mehta is the author of ''Maximum City: Bombay Lost and Found.''

 BODY:
I GREW up watching my father stand on his head every morning. He was doing sirsasana, a yoga pose that accounts for his youthful looks well into his 60s. Now he might have to pay a royalty to an American patent holder if he teaches the secrets of his good health to others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office has issued 150 yoga-related copyrights, 134 patents on yoga accessories and 2,315 yoga trademarks. There's big money in those pretzel twists and contortions -- $3 billion a year in America alone. 
 It's a mystery to most Indians that anybody can make that much money from the teaching of a knowledge that is not supposed to be bought or sold like sausages. Should an Indian, in retaliation, patent the Heimlich maneuver, so that he can collect every time a waiter saves a customer from choking on a fishbone? 
The Indian government is not laughing. It has set up a task force that is cataloging traditional knowledge, including ayurvedic remedies and hundreds of yoga poses, to protect them from being pirated and copyrighted by foreign hucksters. The data will be translated from ancient Sanskrit and Tamil texts, stored digitally and available in five international languages, so that patent offices in other countries can see that yoga didn't originate in a San Francisco commune. 
 It is worth noting that the people in the forefront of the patenting of traditional Indian wisdom are Indians, mostly overseas. We know a business opportunity when we see one and have exported generations of gurus skilled in peddling enlightenment for a buck. The two scientists in Mississippi who patented the medicinal use of turmeric, a traditional Indian spice, are Indians. So is the strapping Bikram Choudhury, founder of Bikram Yoga, who has copyrighted his method of teaching yoga -- a sequence of 26 poses in an overheated room -- and whose lawyers sent out threatening notices to small yoga studios that he claimed violated his copyright. 
 But as an Indian, he ought to know that the very idea of patenting knowledge is a gross violation of the tradition of yoga. In Sanskrit, ''yoga'' means ''union.'' Indians believe in a universal mind -- brahman -- of which we are all a part, and which ponders eternally. Everyone has access to this knowledge. There is a line in the Hindu scriptures: ''Let good knowledge come to us from all sides.'' There is no follow-up that adds, ''And let us pay royalties for it.'' 
 Knowledge in ancient India was protected by caste lines, not legal or economic ones. The term ''intellectual property'' was an oxymoron: the intellect could not be anybody's property. You did not pay your guru in coin; you herded his cows and married his daughter, and passed on the knowledge to others when you were sufficiently steeped in it. This tradition continues today, most notably in Indian classical music, none of whose melodies have been copyrighted. 
 Perhaps it is for this reason that Indians do not feel obligated to pay for knowledge. Pirated copies of my book are openly sold on the Bombay streets, for a fourth of its official price. Many of the plots and the music in Bollywood movies are lifted wholesale from Hollywood. I have sat in on Bollywood script meetings where we viewed American films and decided that replication was the sincerest form of flattery.
 Still, Indians get upset every time they hear reports -- often overblown -- of Westerners' stealing their age-old wisdom, through the mechanism of copyright law. They were outraged by a story last year of some Americans trying to copyright the sacred Hindu syllable ''om'' -- which would be like trade-marking ''amen.''
 The fears may be exaggerated, but they are widespread and reflect India's mixed experience with globalization. Western pharmaceutical companies make billions on drugs that are often first discovered in developing countries -- but herbal remedies like bitter gourd or turmeric, which are known to be effective against everything from diabetes to piles, earn nothing for the country whose sages first isolated their virtues. The Indian government estimates that worldwide, 2000 patents are issued a year based on traditional Indian medicines. 
 Drugs and hatha yoga have the same aim: to help us lead healthier lives. India has given the world yoga for free. No wonder so many in the country feel that the world should return the favor by making lifesaving drugs available at reduced prices, or at least letting Indian companies make cheap generics. If padmasana -- a k a the lotus position -- belongs to all mankind, so should the formula for Gleevec, the leukemia drug over whose patent a Swiss pharmaceuticals company is suing the Indian government. But the drug companies are playing rough. Abbott, based in Chicago, has decided to sell no new medicines in Thailand, in retaliation for that country's producing generic versions of three lifesaving drugs.
 For decades, Indian law allowed its pharmaceutical companies to replicate Western-patented drugs and sell them at a lower price to countries too poor to afford them otherwise. In this way, India supplied half of the drugs used by H.I.V.-positive people in the developing world. But in March 2005, the Indian Parliament, under pressure to bring the country into compliance with the World Trade Organization's regulations on intellectual property, passed a bill declaring it illegal to make generic copies of patented drugs. 
 This has put life-saving antiretroviral medications out of reach of many of the nearly 6 million Indians who have AIDS. And yet, the very international drug companies that so fiercely protect their patents oppose India's attempts to amend World Trade Organization rules to protect its traditional remedies.
 There's more at stake than just the money involved in the commercial exploitation of traditional knowledge. There is also the perception that the world trading system is unfair, that the deck is stacked against developing countries. Unless the World Trade Organization and developed countries correct this, the entire project of globalization is at risk. 
 If the copying of Western drugs is illegal, so should be the patenting of yoga. It is also intellectual piracy, stood on its head. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on May 7, about yoga patents, misstated the responsibilities of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. It does not register copyrights; that is the job of the United States Copyright Office.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gerard DuBois) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOGA (92%); PATENTS (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADEMARK LAW (90%); TRADEMARKS (89%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); COPYRIGHT (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (76%); COPYRIGHT LAW (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (68%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (66%); RELIGION (60%) Yoga; Inventions and Patents; Trademarks and Trade Names; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic and Brand Name Products; Yoga

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (57%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Suketu Mehta

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



130 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Counting Radio Listeners Stirs Controversy

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, Philadelphia became the first city in the United States to abandon the pen-and-ink diary system of collecting radio ratings data. Instead, Philadelphians who are being surveyed by Arbitron, the ratings measurement service, now wear pager-size devices that register hidden audio tones in nearby radio sound. Arbitron calls the devices Portable People Meters, or P.P.M.'s. 
 The release of the new data has affected rankings in Philadelphia's radio market. In particular, stations that cater to a mostly black audience have suffered relative to their competitors. For example, WDAS, an R&B and soul station, was Philadelphia's No. 2 station last fall, as ranked by its share of all listeners during the average quarter-hour. But in the most recent rankings, it came in at No. 7. WUSL, which plays hip-hop and R&B, went from No. 4 to No. 10.
That trend prompted a statement on April 30 from the National Association of Black Owned Broadcasters, which blamed ''deficiencies in the P.P.M. methodology.'' But Thom Mocarsky, a spokesman for Arbitron, said the changes reflected a refinement in the data. 
 A disproportionate number of the affected stations' listeners, he said, had been people who tended to claim daylong bouts of uninterrupted listening to a single station. But the P.P.M. data showed that such people often break up their listening, or switch between stations. ALEX MINDLIN

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart No. 2 Rank of WDAS-FM among Philadelphia radio stations, Fall 2006 No. 7 Rank in March 2007 after new measuring device was introduced) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); RANKINGS (90%); MARKET SHARE (78%); RAP MUSIC (70%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%) Radio; Ratings and Rating Systems; Blacks

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Arbitron Co; National Association of Black Owned Broadcasters

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: Alex Mindlin

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



131 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; YACHT RACING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Victory Challenge Still Has Chance at Semifinals

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

DATELINE: VALENCIA, Spain, May 6 

 BODY:
Eighteen months ago, the crew and support staff of Victory Challenge were on the verge of unemployment.
 They are back in the same position with the round-robin portion of the America's Cup challengers series coming to a boil. But this time, the mood is much less grim at Victory Challenge's base, where a large Swedish flag flaps in the suddenly reliable breeze and where the memory of its founder, Jan Stenbeck, looms larger.
For a one-boat program that once had serious financial problems, the Swedes and their hired international hands have fared well in the less-is-not-more world of Cup sailing. Although the odds are heavily against them with three races remaining, they still have a chance at the semifinals after Sunday's latest round of tacks and jibes. 
 ''At least it's very simple now,'' said Victory's grinder, Jens Dolmer. ''We have to win them all, and they have to lose them all.''
 They would be Spain's Desafio Espanol, the team Victory is scheduled to face in Monday's most meaningful encounter. The Spanish have been building momentum and are in prime position to claim a spot in the final four. BMW Oracle Racing, Luna Rossa Challenge and Emirates Team New Zealand are all certain to advance.
 Victories are worth 2 points; the Spanish have 29 points and Victory Challenge has 24. But Desafio does not have a soft opponent remaining, and Victory's employees have grown accustomed to living on the brink.
 But they are wary of favoritism. Michel Bonnefous, chief executive of America's Cup Management, or A.C.M., has already said that the popular success of the event was directly linked to the success of the Spanish team.
 ''Of course, we have some conspiracy theories that someone could throw a race to let the Spanish in,'' said Hugo Stenbeck, the 28-year-old head of the Swedish syndicate. ''It will be very, very advantageous for A.C.M. to have the Spanish for TV ratings, just for the over all, even for the spectators and public arriving to the port here.
 ''But if I smell something unsportsmanlike, we're going to crack down on them. We've already got a plan for it. If they have anything up their sleeve, we're watching. That's just not the way it should be.''
 Victory was uncertain about challenging for this Cup after taking a crash course the last time in Auckland, New Zealand, and finishing fifth. Its campaign was rocked when Stenbeck, a Swedish media mogul, died of a heart attack in Paris in May 2002, shortly before the racing began.
 But Stenbeck's American son Hugo, only 23 at the time, left his studies at New York University and took over the team. He then launched another campaign in 2005, convinced that the Cup returning to Europe for the first time in 156 years would be a guarantee of sponsorship interest.
 ''I would say I was a bit naive,'' said Hugo Stenbeck, who grew up on Long Island. His mother, Merrill MacLeod, who died last year, was American.
 By October 2005, with future funding in doubt, Stenbeck and the team's administrators called a meeting at the team's still-unfinished base in Valencia. He gave the staff three months' notice in compliance with Spanish law. Meanwhile, staff members were being reassured privately by the skipper Magnus Holmberg and others that the money would eventually come.
 ''We had our ups and downs, but I think that builds the character of the guys on the boat,'' Stenbeck said. ''Basically I think we had three questions in the meeting. Everybody else went straight back to work.''
 Although two sailors eventually jumped ship, including Sten Mohr, who is now BMW Oracle's backup helmsman, there were no other significant defections. 
 By March 2006, the financial outlook had brightened. The real reprieve came in June, when the energy drink manufacturer Red Bull signed on as primary sponsor. Since then, the team has had the means to follow the Cup defender Alinghi's lead and train in Dubai over the winter. But there was no longer enough time to build two new boats, which has become a prerequisite to Cup success.
 Of the top five teams in the standings here, Victory Challenge is the only one-boat program. Victory's crew did not get to sail in its only new boat until Feb. 10, little more than two months before the start of the challenger series, known as the Vuitton Cup.
 Launching that late was a big, if calculated, risk. But the team preferred to give its lead designer, Mani Frers, and the builders more time to get the one boat right than to have more time with a potentially flawed product. Frers, who designed two boats at Jan Stenbeck's request for the last Cup, used the existing boats cleverly this time to test new masts and sails while the hull of the new boat was still a work in progress. 
 Frers's boat is not the only yacht worthy of attention on Victory's base. Sophie is a polished, gorgeous 90-foot replica of the Cup-winning yacht Endeavor. It was one of Jan Stenbeck's prized possessions, and Hugo Stenbeck now watches the races from it in Valencia. ''I think he's with us,'' Hugo said of his father. ''I think maybe half the guys on the team knew him personally. He's a big part of their life, as with me. He's still present in a sense.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A sports article last Monday about Victory Challenge's performance in the America's Cup challengers series referred incorrectly to a past Cup competitor that was used as the model for a prized yacht of Jan Stenbeck, the founder of Victory Challenge. Endeavor, on which the prized yacht Sophie is based, challenged for -- but did not win -- the America's Cup in 1934.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT RACING (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SAILING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (75%); EXECUTIVES (63%); DEATHS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Boats and Boating; Louis Vuitton Cup

PERSON: Christopher Clarey

GEOGRAPHIC: AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); SPAIN (92%); SWEDEN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



132 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Panel to Find That Wolfowitz Broke Rules, Officials Say

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6 

 BODY:
The World Bank committee investigating misconduct charges against Paul D. Wolfowitz, the bank president, failed to complete its review on schedule this weekend, but bank officials said the panel would eventually find that he violated bank rules barring conflicts of interest.
 The committee, made up of 7 of the 24 members of the bank's board, indicated last week that it would reach a conclusion about Mr. Wolfowitz on Saturday and transmit its findings to him to allow him to prepare for a rebuttal this week. 
But no results were transmitted by early Sunday evening, though some officials said it was theoretically possible for the panel to finish later Sunday night.
 Bank officials said the committee was also preparing a recommendation on what the full board should do in light of its finding but would not be disclosing that to Mr. Wolfowitz. 
 The committee is considering whether to recommend an outright removal or some kind of no-confidence vote that may persuade him to resign. That part of the conclusion is not likely to become known until later, bank officials said. 
 The committee's delay in drafting its conclusions made it likely that deliberations over Mr. Wolfowitz would be delayed at least until the end of the week. Mr. Wolfowitz has rebuffed suggestions that he resign and has accused critics of waging a ''smear campaign'' to force him out. 
 At issue was the accusation that Mr. Wolfowitz violated bank rules and the terms of his own contract prohibiting conflicts of interest in 2005 when, as the new bank president, he directed that Shaha Ali Riza, his companion and a bank employee, be given a pay raise and a promotion for being detailed to the State Department.
 Mr. Wolfowitz has denied the charge of favoritism, saying that his arranging for Ms. Riza's raise and promotion was done at the behest of bank ethics officials and subsequently cleared by them. Three bank officials who were involved in the process have testified that he broke bank rules and went behind their backs to assemble the deal. 
 It was not clear why the committee missed its target, but bank officials said they understood it was because of difficulties in drafting the particulars against Mr. Wolfowitz, not because there were any negotiations to arrange for him to resign voluntarily before the draft was completed.
 Bank officials said that there were such discussions about a voluntary resignation three weeks ago, but that there was no evidence they were under way this weekend.
 It was at the annual spring meetings of world finance ministers in mid-April, those officials said, that top European finance and development officials spoke with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. about the possibility that Mr. Wolfowitz would resign in return for the Europeans' permitting the United States to pick his successor.
 But many bank officials said they doubted that such an arrangement would be acceptable now that Mr. Wolfowitz had fought back, accusing his accusers of acting in bad faith, of rushing to judgment, of falsely accusing him and of dereliction of their own duties to safeguard the bank against integrity lapses.
 Since the bank's founding after World War II, it has been customary that the United States, which has 16.4 percent of the votes at the bank, the largest share of any single country, pick the bank president. Under this arrangement, Europeans pick the chief of its sister agency, the International Monetary Fund. 
 But European countries together have more than twice the voting power of the United States, and most of those countries have signaled that they want Mr. Wolfowitz to resign, bank officials say.
 If the matter comes down to some form of a no-confidence vote, European countries, as well as most countries in Asia and Latin America, are likely to line up against Mr. Wolfowitz.
 African countries are known to be torn, with many of them favorable to Mr. Wolfowitz's emphasis on increasing assistance in the sub-Saharan region, but others worry that his continued presence may discourage European countries from financing programs for Africa through the bank.
 The only countries that bank officials say are lined up for Mr. Wolfowitz are the United States, Canada and Japan, about 28 percent of the total. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); ETHICS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%) Ethics

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (50%) Steven R Weisman; Paul D Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



133 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: A Boston Newspaper Prints What the Local Bloggers Write

BYLINE: By LUKE JEROD KUMMER

 BODY:
While most newspapers are trying to stake bigger claims online, one new publication is pulling material off the Internet to be printed in ink.
 John Wilpers, editor in chief of BostonNow, a free weekday daily introduced last month, said he wanted to fill the paper with items that local bloggers submitted to the BostonNow Web site.
Last week, editors began culling posts and running excerpts next to articles from reporters and newswires. The blog items, which appear in gray boxes, are still relatively few, but Mr. Wilpers said he thought the feature would grow. 
 Mr. Wilpers, who previously edited two other free commuter newspapers, Metro Boston and The Washington Examiner, said he wanted to address what he believed was the news industry's biggest problem: an inability to connect with the communities it covers.
 ''It doesn't take a whole lot of smarts to look out at the Internet and see thousands writing on their communities, whether they be geographic or thematic,'' Mr. Wilpers said. ''They're writing about Jamaica Plain or Dorchester or the Boston music scene or windsurfing on Massachusetts Bay.''
 BostonNow also hopes to help connect bloggers with fans. With a current circulation of about 85,000, BostonNow potentially offers a much larger readership than most local bloggers are used to. The greater exposure could translate into increased ad revenue for their own sites.
 ''I just saw it as another outlet, and I liked the concept,'' said Bruce Allen, whose sports blog appears at bostonsportsmedia.com, which averages about 160,000 visits a month. ''Having the opportunity to catch the eye of more people and possibly bring them to your site, there's definitely an appeal.''
 Also appealing to bloggers is that they retain ownership of their submissions even after printing. They have not, however, received money from the paper for their work.
 Last week, BostonNow ran a post and photograph by Steve Garfield, who has been blogging for a decade, now at stevegarfield.com. He said cash payments would be nice, but he planned to contribute even if that did not happen. ''The whole thing I do in blogging is to get seen, get visibility,'' he said.
 Lawrence Lessig, the founder of the Center for Internet and Society at the Stanford Law School, said that BostonNow's business model was not unique. 
 ''The traditional company is one that's just making money selling widgets or iTunes,'' he explained. ''The Internet exploded a sharing economy with things like Wikipedia where people are doing work that creates a lot of value, not for money but just because it's their hobby. We've seen a pattern of hybrid companies like this trying to figure out ways to leverage that for a profit.'' 
 Mr. Wilpers said he wanted to compensate bloggers but was still considering the best way to do so. For now, he has come up with rewards packages that include things like press credentials or consulting services to help bloggers make money from traffic on their sites.
 ''If you're writing about Boston sports, what's more valuable to you, $25 or a press pass to the Red Sox? Or a backstage pass as a music writer to interview the band you've always wanted to interview?'' he said. ''It's something they can't get but as a newspaper we could.'' 
 Might this kind of compensation lead to soft reporting by fans? Not necessarily, said David Weinberger, author of the book ''Everything Is Miscellaneous: The Power of the New Digital Disorder.'' 
 ''If all that happens is every review is a puff piece, then we know something's wrong with the system,'' Mr. Weinberger said. ''But if they're interesting dissections by people quite knowledgeable about the subject matter -- bloggers covering the Boston Ballet who like the Boston Ballet and say so -- then that wouldn't be so bad.''
 Mr. Wilpers said his editors would try to weed out posts written or influenced by publicists, and that he would work to avoid the kind of controversy that flared up after Microsoft distributed free laptops to technology bloggers in advance of releasing a new operating system and was accused of trying to bribe them to write positive reviews of the system.
 ''We'll be running the blogs through the same fairness and quality standards we run our own reporters through,'' said Mr. Wilpers. 
 He could not, however, positively identify a poster whose comments were printed even though he was listed on the Web site as ''joeybudafuco.'' The Web site, he explained, only verifies bloggers' e-mail addresses when they register.
 Devising a code of ethics for publishing online comments will be among BostonNow's challenges. 
 ''This is one innovation in newspapers out of many going on,'' said Jonathan Maslow, a full-time newspaper editor, author and co-founder of the Web site theenergyindependent.com who had an item printed in BostonNow. ''It's too early to know which will survive, but I think this has just as much chance as any.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Wilpers, center, editor in chief of the free paper, BostonNow. (Photo by Erik Jacobs for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (93%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); LAWYERS (75%); WATER SPORTS (66%); EXTREME SPORTS (66%); MUSIC (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



134 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; ADDENDA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Crispin Porter Acquires Radar Communications

 BODY:
Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami, part of MDC Partners, has acquired and absorbed Radar Communications in Boulder, Colo., a consulting company specializing in market research that seeks to better understand consumer behavior. Financial terms were not disclosed.
 John Winsor, who led Radar, and 12 Radar employees will join the Boulder office of Crispin Porter. Mr. Winsor will become the co-director of the cognitive and cultural studies department at the agency, which is being renamed the cultural radar department; Tom Birk, the previous director, will be the other co-director. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH (91%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (88%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (85%); DIVESTITURES (85%) Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Consultants

COMPANY: CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (93%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Crispin Porter & Bogusky; Radar Communications

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

PERSON: Louise Story

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



135 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Rattles Takeover Saber at Steel Company and Banks

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Jens Erik Gould contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, May 6 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez is deepening efforts to assert greater control over the economy by dictating changes to the operations of a large Argentine-controlled steel maker and threatening to nationalize banks controlled by financial institutions from the United States and Spain.
 Markets here are reacting with distress to his latest moves. The main index of the Caracas stock exchange fell 2.7 percent on Friday, while Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, also weakened about 3 percent, to 3,950 to the dollar in unregulated trading as rich Venezuelans rushed to take money out of the country. 
 The announcements by Mr. Chavez are part of a broader project to reconfigure Venezuela's economy to strengthen worker-led cooperatives and state enterprises. Mr. Chavez is also trying to build regional financing alternatives to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, to be financed largely by his government.
 Mr. Chavez dressed down the foreign owners of the steel maker Siderurgica del Orinoco over the weekend, asking them to halt exports and focus on meeting domestic demand. The company, also known as Sidor, is controlled by Techint Group of Argentina. Mr. Chavez said he had summoned Paolo Rocca, the company's chairman, to Caracas for talks.
 ''I'll grab your company,'' Mr. Chavez said in a taunt to Mr. Rocca on Saturday at an event celebrating the creation of a single Socialist party among his followers. 
 ''Give it to me, and I'll pay you what it's worth,'' the president said. ''I won't rob you.''
 Mr. Chavez had threatened on Thursday to nationalize Sidor, and to take over the banking system unless banks agreed to offer low-cost financing to domestic industry.
 Mr. Chavez made similar threats before nationalizing telephone and electricity companies. 
 Erratic policy shifts have led foreign direct investment to plunge in Venezuela, the only country in Latin America besides tiny Suriname to register an outflow of those investments last year, of $543 million.
 Comparable economies in the region enjoyed high levels of direct foreign investment, with Argentina receiving $4.8 billion and Colombia $6.3 billion, according to the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean.
 Cushioned by high oil prices and $25 billion in reserves, Venezuela is still distant from a painful crash of the type that plagued it in the wake of past oil booms, according to economists. But problems like a widening budget deficit are growing more acute as growth slows from last year's torrid 10.3 percent.
 ''There is fear that all of Chavez's different spending projects will lead to a depletion of funds,'' said Francisco Rodriguez, a former chief economist at Venezuela's national assembly who teaches at Wesleyan University. ''Chavez's threat to the banks may reflect increasing resistance in the sector to rolling over internal debt.''
 Indeed, both Mr. Chavez and Venezuela's banks face a dilemma as a surge in public spending widens the budget deficit this year to an estimated 4.9 percent of gross domestic product from 1.8 percent in 2006. The government can cover that shortfall by getting banks to buy its debt or by printing more money, a choice that could cause inflation to jump.
 The government is already trying to reduce inflation, the highest in Latin America at 19.4 percent a year. And officials are grappling with continuing scarcity of foods subject to price controls, like beef, eggs, sugar and milk. Producers say the controls have made it hard to meet demand while labor costs are soaring.
 Showing exasperation with these claims, senior officials are growing increasingly adversarial in their treatment of private industry. Elias Jaua, the agriculture minister, said last week that a ''destabilization campaign'' was to blame for the short supply of some food products.
 Beyond such talk is a redistribution of income under Mr. Chavez, making imports like cellphones and refrigerators and services like modest plastic surgery procedures more widely available. Monthly stipends to the poor or indirect subsidies to buy food and consumer goods, channeled through an array of social welfare programs, have also lifted corporate income.
 Profits for the banking sector climbed 33 percent in 2006, led by a more than 100 percent jump in credit card loans and a 143 percent increase in automobile credit, according to Softline Consulting, a financial analysis firm here.
 Blessed with such profits, few bankers are explicitly critical of Mr. Chavez. In fact some express admiration.
 ''President Chavez is saying it's the job of all of us for Venezuela to press ahead,'' Francisco Aristeguieta, president of Citibank Venezuela and director of the Venezuelan Banking Association, told the government's official news agency.
 Still, economists fear a bill is coming due for the spending spree and the nationalizations. They point to the costs of reimbursing foreign owners for seized assets and meeting their debt obligations, which could be more than $10 billion for oil projects the government is taking over from American and European companies.
 Unregulated trading in the bolivar has become the most visible indicator of eroding confidence.
 Meanwhile, despite Mr. Chavez's excellent record of meeting foreign debt obligations, investors have begun selling Venezuelan bonds amid confusion over his announcement that the country would exit the International Monetary Fund. Investors could demand quick payment of billions of dollars of the bonds if Mr. Chavez goes through with leaving the fund, setting off a possible default. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela is increasing efforts to reconfigure the country's economy. (Photo by Edwin Montilva/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); BONDS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) Nationalization of Industry; Currency; Government Bonds; Foreign Investments; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Credit

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%) Simon Romero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SURINAME (79%); COLOMBIA (79%) Venezuela; Spain; Argentina; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



136 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-16 Sarkozy Wins as French Remain With the Right Nicholas Sarkozy was elected president in France, trouncing his Socialist opponent and ensuring that the French right stays in power for another five years. Mr. Sarkozy promised a break with the past, a new style of leadership and a renewal of relations with the United States and the rest of Europe. A1 Candidate Withdraws in Turkey A Turkish presidential candidate with a background in Islamic politics withdrew his candidacy, ending a struggle that has sharply divided Turkish society and reshaped the political landscape. 
A12 Throngs Cheer Pakistani Judge The chief justice of Pakistan's supreme court, suspended by the government after he investigated some of its practices, received an emotional welcome from thousands of supporters. A3 Clash Near U.N. School in Gaza A clash outside a United Nations-run school in Gaza left one Palestinian dead and six wounded, witnesses and Palestinian security officials said. The chief of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency in Gaza said two of those wounded were schoolchildren, ages 14 and 9. A6 World Bank Inquest Unfinished The World Bank committee investigating misconduct charges against Paul D. Wolfowitz, the bank president, failed to complete its review on schedule, but bank officials said the panel would eventually find that he violated bank rules barring conflicts of interest. A16 NATIONAL A17-19 Whistleblower's Warnings About Loans Were Ignored Early warnings made by a Department of Education researcher to stop the hemorrhage of taxpayers' money to student lending companies were rebuked, records show. The researcher's story opened a window onto how the Bush administration repeatedly resisted calls to improve oversight of the $85 billion student loan industry. A1 Tactics of Insurers Are Faulted Insurance companies have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans, known as Medicare Advantage plans, that cost the government far more than the traditional Medicare program, federal and state officials and consumer advocates say.A1 California's Sway in Primaries In the months since California and about 20 other states changed the dates of their primaries, major presidential campaigns have sought to measure how the early nominating contests will shape their tactical calculations. But California is likely to wield additional clout this time around, altering the dialogue of the contest to issues that have historically drawn little attention. A19 Tornado's Toll in Kansas In the wake of the tornado, over a mile wide, that devastated Greensburg, Kan., are eight confirmed deaths, many injuries and 80 square blocks of rubble. The scope of destruction has also shocked the remaining population and emergency officials. A17 NEW YORK/REGION B1-5 Officers' Digital Cameras Strengthen Abuse Cases Providing digital cameras to police officers is revolutionizing the prosecution of domestic violence in New York City, according to district attorneys, advocates and forensic technicians. B1 Learning the Parent's Language Many immigrants who came to the United States as children or who were born here to immigrant parents are taking foreign languages in increasing numbers in a quest to become fully literate in their mother tongue. B1 SPORTSMONDAY D1-8 Clemens Returns to Yankees Roger Clemens, the 44-year-old right-hander who pitched for the Yankees from 1999 to 2003, returns to the team in a deal that was informally announced during a Yankees/Seattle Mariners match up. A1 BUSINESS DAY C1-12 Investors Aid the Pentagon The Defense Department is using some of the nation's top technology investors to help it find innovations from tiny start-up companies.The Defense Venture Catalyst Initiative, or DeVenCi for short, consists of meetings where venture capitalists suggest solutions culled from technology start-ups. C1 Business Digest C2 OBITUARIES B6 Alvin Batiste A clarinetist who toured wih Ray Charles and recorded with Branford Marsalis, he was 74. B6 EDITORIAL A20-21 Editorials: The soft bigotry of Iraq; after the pet food contamination; still best in show; Lawrence Downes on New Orleans. Column: Nicholas D. Kristof. Bridge E7 Crossword E2 Metro Diary B2 TV Listings E9 Weather B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MISCONDUCT (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CHILDREN (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); INSURANCE (72%); RELIGION (72%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (60%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%) TURKEY (94%); FRANCE (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



137 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: As California Moves Up Its Primary, Its Issues Gain New Prominence

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Ben Werschkul contributed reporting from Stanford, Calif., and Jennifer Steinhauer and Ana F. Contreras from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 4 

 BODY:
When Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, finished a speech on foreign policy recently in Northern California, he was surrounded by reporters who wanted to ask about another topic: global warming and how it was contributing to the state's water shortage.
 ''There is an across-the-board effort that's going to have to be made in the face of climate change, which is real,'' Mr. McCain said.
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, spoke about Iraq and health care in a speech to a huge audience of Democrats last Saturday in San Diego. But she received some of her biggest applause when she paid tribute to -- and endorsed -- the tough fuel efficiency measures California had embraced to cut the nation's dependency on oil from the Middle East. Mrs. Clinton boasted that she held up the measures as a model of energy policy in her campaign trips from Iowa to New Hampshire.
 And Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, speaking from the pulpit at a church in South Los Angeles on the 15th anniversary of the riots here, talked about job creation, race relations and his commitment to balance environmental concerns against the need for economic development -- crucial issues, he said, in a community identified with urban poverty and strife. 
 In the months since California moved its presidential primary to Feb. 5 from June, the major presidential campaigns have sought to measure how the early nominating contests being held here and in about 20 other states that day will shape their tactical calculations: where to travel, whom to hire, how to spend money. 
 The primary calendar -- and, potentially, the relative influence of the states -- is still very much in flux. Just this week, Florida voted to move its primary up to Jan. 29 in an effort to ensure that it would play a vital role in the nominating process and that the candidates would pay attention to the issues its residents deem important. Other states with important early roles, like Nevada and South Carolina, are also hoping to draw attention to issues rooted in their regions or in the makeup of their populations.
 But its sheer size, its concentrations of both liberals and conservatives, its status as a money tree for candidates and its role as fertile ground for policy innovation make California especially likely to wield additional clout this time around. The result is not just a change in tactics; it is altering the dialogue of the presidential contest in substantive ways. It is forcing candidates to turn their attention to issues, debates and controversies that have historically drawn little attention on the early playing fields of Iowa and New Hampshire.
 The most striking example is global warming, an issue that was rarely raised in the past two presidential campaigns. Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, was reminded of this on Thursday night when he was asked on national television at the first Republican presidential candidates' debate, in Simi Valley, if he thought global warming existed. (Yes, Mr. Huckabee said, though he skirted the issue of whether humans were primarily responsible for it.)
 That is hardly the only issue California is putting on the table, as became clear as the presidential candidates from both parties campaigned through the state this week. In their travels they heard about, and talked about, issues that are dominating the politics of this polyglot state: immigration, stem-cell research, protecting public lands and -- reflecting the acute concern of the influential Silicon Valley software industry -- the so-called Net neutrality debate over the allocation of Internet bandwidth.
 Analysts from both parties said that given the political tides here, and what appeared most likely to surface in California's public and political dialogue by Feb. 5, the candidates should be prepared to offer opinions about whether illegal immigrants should be eligible for drivers' licenses or health care coverage; whether Congressional redistricting should be stripped from political leaders and put in the control of judges; and whether they supported another effort by the California Legislature to legalize same-sex marriage in a state with a large and influential gay population.
 To some extent, this surfeit of issues reflects what has always been California's reputation as being slightly ahead of the curve -- some might argue off the curve -- on all kinds of social and domestic issues. It also reflects the influence of this state's sizable community of active Democrats, many of them more liberal than their counterparts in places like Iowa, and also its often-outspoken conservatives, especially in the southern part of the state.
 But it is just as much testimony to the energetic efforts by its governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican who has broken with the national party on a series of issues, to shape the discussion of the presidential campaign. In an interview, Mr. Schwarzenegger said he intended to use the platform of this primary to affect the course of his party's presidential debate by pressing candidates to talk in detail about how, for example, to curb reliance on ''fossil fuel and Middle East fuel'' and how to respond to the flood of illegal immigrants, an issue that has confounded Republican politicians here for nearly a decade.
 ''They've got to tell people what they would do,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said, smoking a cigar in his sprawling private office in Santa Monica, which is bigger than most Manhattan apartments. ''I'm interested in solving this immigration problem. Environmental issues. I will be relentless in the next year, almost two years, talking about these issues.'' 
 ''I am only interested in one thing,'' he continued, ''That we do everything that we can do here to use that opportunity that came of us having moved the primary date to our advantage. How can we make this work really well for California.''
 Mr. Schwarzenegger could well complicate life for Republicans seeking the presidential nomination, which he is constitutionally barred from seeking. Mr. Schwarzenegger is pushing, for example, to provide health care benefits to illegal immigrants, an idea that probably does not have much political currency in places like South Carolina or Iowa, whose nominating contests precede California's. And Mr. Schwarzenegger challenged the notion of turning to ethanol to wean the nation off Middle Eastern fossil fuels, a declaration that a candidate for president from either party would be unlikely to make to, say, an audience of farmers in Iowa.
 ''It's a mistake to promote just ethanol,'' he said. ''Maybe the future is in hydrogen? Is it biofuel?'' 
 On the other side of the ledger, the issue of same-sex marriage might complicate life for Democrats: the Legislature is likely to renew efforts to enact legislation allowing it, which will mean the Democratic candidates will no doubt be asked to weigh in on it. Similarly, there is talk here of putting on the ballot an initiative calling for an immediate withdrawal of troops from Iraq, which could put Democrats more squarely on the spot over how the United States should end the war.
 Immigration is a particularly tough issue here for both parties, in a state that has been transformed by an influx of Hispanic voters. It has created political cross-pressures on Republicans, who are trying to deal with voters who see the influx of immigrants as a threat to their safety, cultural identity and economic well-being; and Democrats, who have benefited in the past decade from the perception among many legal immigrants that Republicans are anti-immigration. The latest debate here is whether illegal immigrants should be granted drivers' licenses.
 The issue most likely to shape the presidential contest here, though, is the environment. ''Top of the list: global warming,'' said Garry South, a longtime Democratic strategist in California. ''I don't know how that plays in Iowa or how that plays in New Hampshire, but it is hot here. The governor has made it the centerpiece of his whole administration.''
 Last September, California enacted a law calling for reducing heat-trapping emissions by 25 percent. Nearly every Democrat who spoke at the party's convention here last weekend referred to it as a crucial issue. 
 In the past, candidates for president have been wary of explicitly calling for tougher fuel conservation measures, afraid of drawing the ire of auto-worker unions and inviting criticism that such measures would raise the cost of automobiles and cost American jobs. But Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat running for president, drew cheers from California Democrats when he called for the establishment of a 50-mile-per-gallon fuel standard for cars, by 2017.
 ''We all understand how important these issues are,'' Mr. Dodd said, ''and no one understands that more than the people in this state.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California watching the Republican presidential debate last week with Nancy Reagan in Simi Valley, Calif. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (57%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (51%); RACE & RACISM (51%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues ; Primaries and Caucuses; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) Adam Nagourney

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) California

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



138 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: The Warhol of Japan Pours Ritual Tea in a Zen Moment

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The unmistakable aroma of incense wafted through the Gagosian Gallery on Madison Avenue one afternoon last week. It wasn't the only hint that business was not as usual. Instead of chicly dressed gallery assistants, demure Japanese ladies in colorful kimonos greeted visitors. 
 In the central gallery stood the Japanese artist Takashi Murakami. In place of his usual garb -- baggy cargo pants, T-shirt and sneakers -- he was done up in a traditional hakama, his hair pulled back in a neat bun, with his signature round glasses and wispy goatee. ''Welcome to this very special tea ceremony,'' he said.
The guests -- Nancy Spector, the chief curator of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum; Vincent Fremont, a sales agent for the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts; his wife, Shelly Dunn Fremont, an art director; and Kazuhito Yoshii, owner of the Yoshii Gallery in Manhattan -- were the first to participate in a three-day series of tea ceremonies. Sitting around the low L-shaped wooden table, they listened intently as So-oku Sen, a tea master from a 400-year-old school in Kyoto, explained the ritual with the help of Linda Hoaglund, a translator. 
 Popularly known as the Warhol of Japan, Mr. Murakami, 45, merges fine art with popular Japanese anime films and manga cartoons. He has invented characters including DOB and Mr. Pointy, which he has used as the subjects of paintings, sculptures and giant balloons, and is also known for his smiley-faced flowers and colorful mushrooms. His work has adorned New York City landmarks like Grand Central Terminal and Rockefeller Center. 
 These days Mr. Murakami's tentacles reach far and wide. In Japan he is busy producing feature-length animated films, and he is already considered a media king there, with a television and a radio show on which he interviews everyone from world-famous economists to novelists. A marketing impresario, he teamed up with the fashion house Louis Vuitton in 2003 to create brightly colored versions of the classic LV monogram on Vuitton handbags. They flew off the shelves, generating millions of dollars. 
 Now Mr. Murakami is looking back in history. His inaugural exhibition at Gagosian, ''Tranquillity of the Heart, Torment of the Flesh: Open Wide the Eye of the Heart and Nothing Is Invisible,'' is the first public showing of his new series of monumental paintings of Daruma, the sage, grand patriarch of Zen art and founder of Zen Buddhism. In certain Japanese Zen monasteries, Mr. Murakami said, the tea ceremony is still carried out in its original form to honor Daruma. 
 At Gagosian the ceremony began with a serving of neon-green spongecakes, in the center of which were two tiny egg yolks: something sweet for the palate, said Mr. Sen, 31, a descendant of the 16th-century tea master Sen no Rikyu. Then there was the elaborate preparation of the green tea, using a 400-year-old bamboo spoon to scoop the tea leaves out of an ancient wooden container. An antique iron kettle held the boiling water, while a modern bowl filled with boiling water was used to rinse out each of the 17th-century ceramic serving bowls that Mr. Murakami had brought from his home in Tokyo for the occasion.
 ''I wanted to bring something spiritually and culturally Japanese to a wider audience,'' Mr. Murakami said as a Japanese television crew filmed his every move. ''This is only the second time in my whole life I've dressed up like this,'' he added. ''The first time was when I was at the tea master's house.'' 
 Among the works in his exhibition are several three-panel paintings, nearly 8 feet wide and 9 feet tall, of a fierce-looking Daruma, each signed in the traditional Japanese manner, in Japanese characters down one side, and each with a different background, ranging from platinum and gold leaf to black glitter. 
 ''The theme of Mr. Murakami's exhibition is to take something very classical and render it very contemporary,'' Ms. Hoaglund explained. 
 The paintings are not the only new direction Mr. Murakami has recently taken in his career; he has also changed dealers. In June he left Marianne Boesky's Chelsea gallery after about a decade for Gagosian, the international powerhouse, because, ''I am always looking for new ways of making art, and everyone knows Larry,'' he said at the time, referring to Larry Gagosian. ''When he asked me, it was good timing.'' 
 The new work was a total surprise for Mr. Gagosian. ''When I went to his studio, there was not a hint that these were the kind of paintings Takashi would produce,'' he said. ''His capacity to change the mood, direction and scale of his work is very exciting, and people went with it.'' Even before the show opened on Tuesday, all the work had been sold, Mr. Gagosian said. Prices ranged from about $100,000 for the smaller paintings to $1.6 million for the large ones. 
 While the ever tight-lipped Mr. Gagosian would not say who the buyers were, experts in the field said seasoned collectors like Francois Pinault, the luxury-good magnate who owns Christie's, and Steven A. Cohen, the hedge-fund manager, were among them. 
 The Daruma paintings are only part of the show, which runs through June 9. The floor below is filled with round canvases of smiling flowers, more in keeping with Mr. Murakami's old self. On one wall hang 50 of them, each 15 1/2 inches in diameter, with a group of larger variations filling the rest of the space. 
 ''There's always a shadow of Warhol,'' Mr. Murakami said. And in the grand tradition of Warhol's Factory, Mr. Murakami runs the Kaikai Kiki Company (named for two characters in his imaginary universe), which includes his own factorylike studios in Tokyo and Long Island City, Queens, where artists carry out his creations. In addition to Mr. Murakami's signature, the names of all the contributing artists from his studio are also on the back of each flower paintings they worked on. 
 When the Gagosian show ends, Mr. Murakami will be in Basel, Switzerland, at Volta, a spinoff of Art Basel, overseeing a booth there called Geisai, from the Japanese word for art festival. And twice a year Mr. Murakami and Kaikai Kiki run a one-day event in Tokyo to showcase young Japanese artists. Each year he invites several of them to exhibit in Basel. 
 Mr. Murakami is also preparing for a major traveling retrospective that is to open in October at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. Organized by Paul Schimmel, that museum's chief curator, it will include more than 90 works in various mediums, as well as an animated film by Mr. Murakami. A Louis Vuitton shop at the show will sell his creations. 
 ''This is a moment when he is working at an incredible pace,'' Mr. Schimmel said. ''Most people, when they go to a new gallery, see it as a consolidation of their past. Not Takashi. He is one of the most fearless and bold artists I know. And this latest show is a deliberate fusion of his two worlds.'' Takashi Murakami's show ''Tranquillity of the Heart, Torment of the Flesh: Open Wide the Eye of the Heart and Nothing Is Invisible'' is on view through June 9 at Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, (212) 744-2313, gagosian.com. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Takashi Murakami's show at Gagosian, ''Tranquillity of the Heart, Torment of the Flesh,'' includes new paintings of the founder of Zen Buddhism. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
''I wanted to bring something spiritually and culturally Japanese to a wider audience,'' said the artist Takashi Murakami, center, at a tea ceremony.
A ritual Japanese tea ceremony inaugurates Mr. Murakami's show at the Gagosian Gallery.
 Mr. Murakami, who merges fine art with popular culture, is well known for his smiley-faced flowers. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); RELIGION (91%); TEA (90%); PAINTING (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (83%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ANIMATION (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%); ANIMATED FILMS (70%); WRITERS (50%) Art; Buddhism

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (93%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (63%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (63%); LVMH (BIT) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (93%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (63%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (63%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (90%) Carol Vogel; Takashi Murakami; Daruma (Zen Buddhist)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



139 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: SARKOZY, ELECTED IN FRANCE, VOWS BREAK WITH PAST

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Ariane Bernard and Maia de la Baume contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS, May 6 

 BODY:
Nicolas Sarkozy, the passionate, pugnacious son of a Hungarian immigrant, was elected president of France on Sunday, promising a break with the past, a new style of leadership, and a renewal of relations with the United States and the rest of Europe.
 Mr. Sarkozy's triumph over Segolene Royal, the Socialist candidate, was a huge blow to her party and dashed her dream of becoming the country's first female president. But Ms. Royal tried to rally her supporters, telling them French politics had forever changed with her candidacy.
With the entire vote counted, Mr. Sarkozy had 53.1 percent and Ms. Royal 46.9 percent, according to official Interior Ministry figures. 
 Ms. Royal had repeatedly appealed to the women of France to vote for her in a show of female solidarity. But Mr. Sarkozy, a conservative who made his reputation as a hard-line minister of the interior, got the majority of the women's vote, according to Ipsos, an international polling company. 
 Its telephone poll showed that the youngest voters supported Ms. Royal, artisans, shopkeepers and rural voters preferred Mr. Sarkozy, and city dwellers were divided. Mr. Sarkozy's strongest support came from voters 60 years and older.
 His victory set off scattered anti-Sarkozy violence in Paris and some other cities, but for the most part France stayed calm.
 Turnout was exceptionally high. Eighty-four percent of France's 44.5 million registered voters cast ballots, about four percentage points higher than the level five years ago.
 In an emotional acceptance speech to thousands of cheering supporters in a rented concert hall in the chic Eighth Arrondissement, Mr. Sarkozy (pronounced SAR-ko-zee) renewed his campaign pledge to break what he called the old, outmoded habits of France.
 ''The French people have chosen change,'' Mr. Sarkozy declared. ''I will implement that change. Because that is the mandate I received and because France needs change.''
 He vowed to ''break with the ideas, the habits and the behavior of the past'' and to ''rehabilitate work, authority, morality, respect and merit.'' Mr. Sarkozy has pledged to remake France by, among other things, slashing unemployment, cutting taxes, keeping trains running during strikes, making people work harder and longer, shrinking the government bureaucracy, reforming pension rules and making it easier to create new businesses. 
 Widely criticized in France for his strong pro-American sentiments, Mr. Sarkozy sought in his acceptance speech to strike a balanced approach to the United States. 
 Addressing France's ''American friends,'' he said, ''I want to tell them that France will always be by their side when they need her, but that friendship is also accepting the fact that friends can think differently.'' .
 He specifically criticized the United States for obstructing the fight against global warming, which he said would be a high priority.
 President Bush telephoned Mr. Sarkozy to congratulate him, saying he ''looks forward to working with president-elect Sarkozy as we continue our strong alliance,'' Gordon D. Johndroe, a White House spokesman, said in a statement.
 Foreshadowing activism in the world, Mr. Sarkozy called for a new union of the Mediterranean region, vowed to fight poverty, tyranny and oppression, and forge a new role for the European Union, declaring, ''Tonight, France is back in Europe.'' 
 He also struck a conciliatory note, reaching out to the huge swath of French people who seem to fear him, especially in the country's ethnically and racially mixed suburbs, where he is accused of fueling tensions with his provocative language and an aggressive police presence. 
 ''To all those French who did not vote for me, I want to say, beyond political battles, beyond differences of opinion, for me there is only one France,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''I want to tell them that I will be president of all the French.'' 
 In conceding defeat at her campaign headquarters on the Left Bank, Ms. Royal acknowledged the sadness and pain of her supporters, whom she thanked for their efforts. 
 ''The voters have spoken,'' Ms. Royal said. ''I hope the next president will fulfill his mission in the service of all the French people.''
 But she also said the election campaign had changed the French left forever, hinting at disarray in her party and suggesting the Socialists may seek to form an alliance with the large following of Francois Bayrou, the centrist candidate. ''Something rose up that will not stop,'' she said, adding, ''You can count on me to deepen the renewal of the left.'' 
 She never mentioned Mr. Sarkozy by name.
 With his raw, often divisive rhetoric, Mr. Sarkozy will have to change course to neutralize deep-rooted hostility against him, particularly in the tough ethnic suburbs.
 About 2,000 people gathered at Place de la Bastille in central Paris to await the election results, with some burning an effigy of Mr. Sarkozy before tearing it apart. 
 But within two hours of the polls closing, the scene had degenerated into violent clashes between the police and several hundred people in the crowd who smashed windows and set one vehicle on fire. 
 By midnight, the square was shrouded in tear gas, with riot police officers cowering from paving stones pitched by young men. Bursts of police water cannons followed.
 ''Police everywhere, justice nowhere!'' some protesters shouted. Others yelled, ''Sarko, Fascist! The people will get you!'' The base of the Bastille column in the square was left scrawled with graffiti, including, ''Sarko 2007 = Hitler 1933.''
 Four policemen and one civilian were injured, the police said. 
 In Lyon, France's second-largest city, the police used tear gas on anti-Sarkozy protesters in the main square. There were other isolated episodes of protest in cities and towns across the country, including Grenoble, Rennes, Nantes, Bordeaux, Toulouse, Metz and Marseille. 
 Nonetheless, there was no repetition of the orgy of unrest that gripped the country's troubled multiracial and multiethnic suburbs in late 2005. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Sarkozy celebrated. After his acceptance speech, he blew kisses to the crowd before heading toward a restaurant on the Avenue des Champs-Elysees. 
 Mr. Sarkozy's wife, Cecilia, who has been notably absent during most of the campaign, was not with him throughout the day.
 He was accompanied to his acceptance speech by his two sons from a first marriage and his two adult stepdaughters. Mrs. Sarkozy joined her husband at the restaurant and accompanied him to an outdoor victory party at the Place de la Concorde. 
 There, 30,000 supporters filled the square where revolutionaries once guillotined monarchists, chanting, ''Nicolas! Nicolas! Nicolas!''
 Mr. Sarkozy gave another upbeat speech. He clapped as Faudel, a French singer of Algerian origin, performed. Everyone sang the Marseillaise. 
 ''I am very happy because he is the only one who can save France,'' said Michele Mault, who is 50 years old and unemployed. ''Sarkozy gives hope to someone like me who has no job, and especially to my children.''
 The election was a triumph of raw ambition, efficiency and political sleight-of-hand. The French president is an odd invention -- part monarch and part elected politician. There is no other elected political office in Europe that comes with as much power and grandeur. 
 Throughout the campaign, Mr. Sarkozy had portrayed himself as an outsider, an immigrant's son with a foreign-sounding name, a man who never went to one of France's elite universities. He is also the quintessential political insider, however, a longtime figure in party politics and a member of the cabinet of President Jacques Chirac for much of the past five years. But he succeeded in making himself look like a political outsider, distancing himself from Mr. Chirac, who was seen by the French as old, tired and powerless in the twilight of his 12-year presidency. 
 Mr. Sarkozy ran an extraordinarily disciplined campaign with a single message: change, but not too much to scare voters. 
 Ms. Royal's direct grass-roots appeal to the French people and her pledge to be their ''protector'' was revolutionary. But Ms. Royal, a former schools and environment minister, found herself in the odd position of being the candidate of her Socialist Party without enjoying the support of its elite. 
 Her campaign was fraught with mixed messages, defections and shifting strategies. She never seemed to convince voters that she had enough substance. 
 Twenty-two years younger than Mr. Chirac, Mr. Sarkozy also represents a generational change in French politics, in which World War II and the cold war are not determining factors. 
 Supporters of the centrist candidate, Mr. Bayrou, who came in third place in the first round with nearly seven million votes, split their vote almost evenly between Mr. Sarkozy, with 40 percent, and Ms. Royal, with 38 percent, according to Ipsos. 
 The data was taken from a poll carried out by phone on Sunday on a sample of 3,609 people, representative of French registered voters.
 Mr. Sarkozy officially will assume office ten days from now, a few hours before Mr. Chirac's mandate ends. In a formal meeting, Mr. Chirac will hand over the secret codes for France's nuclear weapons. 
 There will be a 21-gun salute; the Marseillaise will be played. 
 The President of the Constitutional Council will read the results of the election. The Grand Chancellor of the Legion of Honor will make Mr. Sarkozy Grand Master of the Order. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of Nicolas Sarkozy celebrated yesterday in the Place de la Concorde in Paris, after hearing the official announcement that Mr. Sarkozy had won the runoff election for the French presidency. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)
 Riot police officers fought with protesters in Paris after the election of Mr. Sarkozy. There was scattered violence by anti-Sarkozy demonstrators there and in some other cities, but most of France was calm. (Photo by Eric Gaillard/Reuters)(pg. A16) Chart/Map: ''How the French Voted'' Nicolas Sarkozy, the conservative candidate, beat his Socialist adversary in 16 of 22 regions. WINNER BY REGION: Nicolas Sarkozy NATIONAL TOTALS: 53% WINNER BY REGION: Segolene Royal NATIONAL TOTALS: 47% Map of France highlighting Paris, Lyon, and Marseille. (Source by Interior Ministry)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); WOMEN (76%); STATISTICS (75%); REFUGEES (73%); RIOTS (70%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Elections; Politics and Government; Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations; Immigration and Refugees; Women

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (94%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (92%) Elaine Sciolino; Nicolas Sarkozy; Segolene Royal

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); LYON, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (92%) France; France; France

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



140 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: Whistle-Blower On Student Aid Is Vindicated

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When Jon Oberg, a Department of Education researcher, warned in 2003 that student lending companies were improperly collecting hundreds of millions in federal subsidies and suggested how to correct the problem, his supervisor told him to work on something else.
 The department ''does not have an intramural program of research on postsecondary education finance,'' the supervisor, Grover Whitehurst, a political appointee, wrote in a November 2003 e-mail message to Mr. Oberg, a civil servant who was soon to retire. ''In the 18 months you have remaining, I will expect your time and talents to be directed primarily to our business of conceptualizing, competing and monitoring research grants.''
 For three more years, the vast overpayments continued. Education Secretary Rod Paige and his successor, Margaret Spellings, argued repeatedly that under existing law they were powerless to stop the payments and that it was Congress that needed to act. Then this past January, the department largely shut off the subsidies by sending a simple letter to lenders -- the very measure Mr. Oberg had urged in 2003. 
 The story of Mr. Oberg's effort to stop this hemorrhage of taxpayers' money opens a window, lawmakers say, onto how the Bush administration repeatedly resisted calls to improve oversight of the $85 billion student loan industry. The department failed to halt the payments to lenders who had exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans they issued. 
 Recent investigations by state attorneys general and Congress have highlighted how the department failed to clamp down on gifts and incentives that lenders offered to universities and their financial aid officers to get more student loans. Under this pressure, the department is now seeking to set new rules. 
 The subsidy payments that Mr. Oberg uncovered are another corner of the lending system on which the department long failed to act, critics say, letting millions of dollars flow from the public treasury to about a dozen lenders. 
 The department now says it did not fully understand the extent of the maneuvers the loan companies were making to get the subsidies until last September, when its inspector general investigated and issued a report detailing manipulations carried out by a Nebraska lender, Nelnet. The audit recommended that the department recover $278 million from the lender, but education officials instead reached a settlement allowing Nelnet to keep the money but cutting it off from further subsidies that it claimed it was eligible to receive. 
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate education committee, has asked Ms. Spellings to turn over documents related to the settlement decision. She is likely to come under questioning about the Nelnet settlement on May 10, at a hearing of the House education committee. 
 Mr. Oberg, now retired, has a master's degree from the University of Nebraska and a doctorate in political science from the Free University of Berlin. He is a former Navy officer, university professor, and aide to Senator J. James Exon, a Nebraska Democrat, from 1979 to 1984. He was an Education Department liaison to Congress under the Clinton administration.
 The subsidy payment issue that came to preoccupy Mr. Oberg grew out of decisions Congress made in the 1980s to ensure that low-cost student loans were available at a time when the economy was souring. Lawmakers guaranteed nonprofit lenders a rate of return of 9.5 percent on student loans that were financed by tax-exempt bonds to protect the companies from spiraling costs. 
 Congress eliminated much of the subsidy program in 1993 because interest rates had dropped, but at that time retained the 9.5 percent return for existing loans. By 2002, lenders had devised ways to inflate the volume of loans for which they received the 9.5 percent subsidies. Congress closed one loophole in 2004, but lenders found others. Congress further restricted the subsidies in 2006. 
 In 1997, the Clinton administration proposed legislation to eliminate all references to the subsidies from the Higher Education Act in an effort to rein them in. Mr. Oberg took the legislation to Sally Stroup, who was then serving as senior aide to the Republican chairman of the House education committee. 
 ''Sally told me there was no way that language was coming out,'' Mr. Oberg recalled. ''She didn't give a reason -- just forget it.'' Ms. Stroup, who went on to become an assistant secretary of education in the Bush administration, and who is now back as an aide on Capitol Hill, did not return several phone calls and messages left for comment.
 In 2000, Mr. Oberg transferred to the department's research operation, and two years into the Bush administration, began to review the government filings of Nelnet and other lenders. He found that not only were payments to lenders rising rapidly, but also that the base amounts of the loans lenders were claiming as eligible for the 9.5 percent subsidies were exploding. 
 ''Several big lending agencies were gaming the system,'' Mr. Oberg said in a recent interview at his home in Rockville, Md.
 He notified the Education Department's inspector general's office. He also told his superiors but felt they were brushing him off. So in November 2003, he wrote a memorandum for general distribution throughout the department warning that lender manipulations could cost the government billions unless stopped, and he recommended that the secretary could end the abuse with a letter to lenders clarifying government rules.
 That is when his supervisor, Mr. Whitehurst, director of the department's Institute for Education Sciences, stepped in. Mr. Whitehurst said that he had forwarded Mr. Oberg's memorandum to appropriate senior officials, whom he declined to identify, but acknowledged that he ''wasn't real happy'' because he considered Mr. Oberg's research to be outside his job description.
 ''Plus, I didn't understand the issues,'' Mr. Whitehurst said recently. ''In retrospect, it looks like he identified an important issue and came up with a reasonable solution. But it was Greek to me at the time -- preferential interest rates on bonds? I didn't know what he was doing, except that he wasn't supposed to be doing it.''
 He told Mr. Oberg to stop because he wanted him to be monitoring grants, not lending practices. Officials also rewrote Mr. Oberg's job description, documents show, barring him from further research into the subsidies. Although Mr. Oberg was a civil servant, the Bush administration may have seen him as a holdover from the Clinton administration.
 Mr. Oberg said he decided to continue his research in his free time because, ''If you tell some people they can't do something, they want to do it all the more.''
 But when he requested from his own department data on payments to lenders, known in the bureaucracy as the 9.5 percent Special Allowance Payments, Donald Conner, an analyst in the department's postsecondary division, e-mailed Mr. Oberg saying, "I'm not permitted to give any 9.5 percent SAP information."
 Mr. Whitehurst, in an interview, suggested that Mr. Oberg was viewed by some senior officials as an annoyance. ''I was told he was like a dog on a bone, agitating on this issue,'' Mr. Whitehurst said. Ms. Spellings did not reply to a memorandum Mr. Oberg sent her about waste in the loan program just before his 2005 retirement, Mr. Oberg said.
 But Mr. Oberg's warnings prompted a clamor in Congress and a string of reports by government investigators calling for a stop to the giveaways. Senior department officials disputed or declined to follow the recommendations of all of them.
 A 2004 report by the Government Accountability Office urged the department to rewrite its regulations to save billions of dollars in future loan subsidy payments. But Ms. Stroup, who had once worked for one of the lending companies that is now under investigation for the subsidies, argued in response that it would be simpler for Congress to clamp down with new legislation. Mr. Paige repeated that argument in a letter to Mr. Kennedy, who was pressing the department to curb the subsidies. 
 Then, in 2005, the Education Department's inspector general recommended that $36 million be recovered from a New Mexico lender. Ms. Spellings overruled the finding that the payments were improper and declined to recover the payments. And in January 2007, after the inspector general recommended that $278 million in overpayments be recovered from Nelnet, the department instead reached a settlement under which Nelnet could keep the money -- if it dropped plans to bill the department for another $800 million in subsidies. 
 Nelnet was the nation's most generous corporate donor to the National Republican Congressional Committee in 2006, and its top three executives were the largest individual donors to the committee as well, according to the nonprofit Center for Responsive Politics.
 Nelnet was also well connected at the department. Don Bouc, Nelnet's president through 2004 and president emeritus thereafter, sat on the department's Advisory Committee on Student Financial Assistance from 2001 through Feb. 1 of this year, even while the department was auditing the company's subsidies and negotiating the settlement. Mr. Bouc resigned from the committee 11 days after the department announced that it would not seek to recover the $278 million. 
 Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said Mr. Bouc's service for the committee was unrelated to the audit. 
 Robert Shireman, a researcher in Berkeley, Calif., who co-authored a private nonprofit group's 2004 report on the subsidies called ''Money for Nothing,'' said, ''There has been an outrageous lack of interest at the Education Department in doing anything to stop the bleeding.''
 Then this January, turning to a measure Mr. Oberg had recommended in 2003, the department issued a ''subregulatory guidance'' letter cutting off subsidy payments to all lenders except those who prove their eligibility with an audit.
 Kristin D. Conklin, a senior adviser at the department, said the department had been unaware, until its inspector general issued its Nelnet audit last September, that lenders were collecting subsidy payments on loans that were clearly ineligible.
 That audit documented how Nelnet had transferred loans repeatedly into and out of tax-exempt bonds issued before 1993 to expand the volume of loans eligible for the subsidies. The audit identified so-called first-generation loans, financed from the pre-1993 bonds, and second-generation loans, financed from the proceeds of the first-generation loans, as eligible for the government subsidies. It said later-generation loans were ineligible.
 ''It's not like we were sitting on this big problem and didn't address it,'' Ms. Conklin said. ''We didn't know the extent to which these third- and fourth-generation loans were being used. The full scope of this problem first became known to us in September, and we moved seriously to address it in the following months.''
 Ms. Conklin also said the department had previously lacked the power to cut off overpayments using a simple letter. Only intervening legislation passed by Congress made that possible, she said. Today, with Mr. Oberg's predictions proven accurate, he has become a bit of a celebrity. Mr. Kennedy arranged his testimony before the Senate in February. 
 ''Taxpayers owe a tip of the hat to former Nebraskan Jon Oberg, who blew the whistle on the scheme that allowed companies to grab hundreds of millions in subsidies,'' the Lincoln Journal Star wrote in October. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon Oberg, a former Department of Education researcher, warned that student loan companies were abusing a subsidy program and collecting millions in federal payments to which they were not entitled. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); AUDITS (60%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%) Colleges and Universities; Whistle-Blowers; Credit; Frauds and Swindling; Student Loans; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: NELNET INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Education Department

TICKER: NNI (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%)

PERSON: MARGARET SPELLINGS (79%); TED KENNEDY (56%) Sam Dillon; Jon Oberg; Rod Paige; Margaret (Sec) Spellings

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007



141 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: DEAL IS OFFERED FOR CHIEF'S EXIT AT WORLD BANK

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7 

 BODY:
Leading governments of Europe, mounting a new campaign to push Paul D. Wolfowitz from his job as World Bank president, signaled Monday that they were willing to let the United States choose the bank's next chief, but only if Mr. Wolfowitz stepped down soon, European officials said.
 European officials had previously indicated that they wanted to end the tradition of the United States picking the World Bank leader. But now the officials are hoping to enlist American help in persuading Mr. Wolfowitz to resign voluntarily, rather than be rebuked or ousted.
The goal, they said, is to avert a public rupture of the bank board over a vote, possibly later this week, to sanction Mr. Wolfowitz. Even if the vote is a reprimand, they said, it could effectively make it impossible for him to stay on.
 The Europeans worked to arrange a quick exit for Mr. Wolfowitz as a special bank committee concluded that he was guilty of breaking rules barring conflicts of interest in arranging for a pay raise and promotion for Shaha Ali Riza, his companion and a bank employee, in 2005. 
 The decision was sent to Mr. Wolfowitz on Sunday night after a month of turmoil over the situation. The panel's findings were not made public, but people familiar with the report said that it reviewed documents and testimony before concluding that Mr. Wolfowitz had breached his obligations in arranging for Ms. Riza's reassignment from the bank to the State Department.
 ''What I'm hearing from colleagues is, 'Let's not push the Americans too hard,' '' said a senior European official involved in policy on the bank. ''We want to avoid a split between the United States and its European allies. We're willing to say: 'O.K., you find a capable American to run this institution and we can live with that.' ''
 In another sign of Mr. Wolfowitz's difficulties, his top communications aide, Kevin Kellems, resigned Monday, saying that ''the current environment surrounding the leadership'' at the bank made it ''very difficult to be effective in helping to advance the mission of the institution.''
 Mr. Kellems said in a statement that he had ''tremendous respect and admiration'' for the bank's staff but made no mention of Mr. Wolfowitz, with whom he had a close association when the bank president was deputy secretary of defense.
 European officials did not disclose details of how they were communicating with the Bush administration, but they said the suggestion that Mr. Wolfowitz resign in return for having an American successor was first raised with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. in mid-April.
 Well before Mr. Wolfowitz took office in 2005, leading European countries had begun agitating to discard the custom that had existed since the 1940s of the United States choosing the bank president. The United States has that prerogative because it contributes the largest share of the bank's financing.
 Bush administration officials say that American leadership of the World Bank is essential to maintaining influence over its policies and priorities, including which bank programs and countries receive financing. The officials fear that if the bank is headed by someone lacking the confidence of Congress and Americans in general, it could lead to a breach similar to the one between the former United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, and critics on Capitol Hill.
 European countries customarily choose the chief of the bank's sister institution, the International Monetary Fund, though a European-American conflict has arisen there as well. Its focus is a drive supported by the Bush administration to reduce the European voting share in favor of China and other fast-growing countries.
 The United States has 16.4 percent of the voting share at the 24-member World Bank board that chooses the president. Europeans have twice that share if they stick together, which many bank officials say they have signaled they are willing to do to remove Mr. Wolfowitz.
 The senior European official said Mr. Wolfowitz's credibility was now ''beyond repair.''
 That view has echoed through the bank's ranks. Hundreds of bank employees assembled at an auditorium on Monday to hear Mark Malloch Brown, the former top aide to Mr. Annan at the United Nations, say that with Mr. Wolfowitz in charge, the bank's anti-poverty agenda was ''hugely at risk'' because Europeans were balking at the financing. 
 No bank president has ever resigned in a crisis atmosphere like the current situation, so there is no precedent for what would happen if he left.
 The committee's finding of guilt against Mr. Wolfowitz was tempered by a finding that the bank shared at least some blame for the failure of Mr. Wolfowitz to comply with its rules. According to people familiar with the report, it said the advice from ethics officials at the bank to Mr. Wolfowitz was less than clear and evidently subject to misinterpretation. Nevertheless, the report was clear in its conclusion that Mr. Wolfowitz breached his obligations.
 Mr. Wolfowitz's lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, said the bank was giving Mr. Wolfowitz too little time to rebut its conclusions before a board vote later this week.
 ''I don't feel it would be appropriate to share the report, but I am deeply troubled that they have only given us 48 hours to respond,'' he said in an interview. ''This is not fair to Mr. Wolfowitz.''
 The report, as transmitted to Mr. Wolfowitz, did not recommend any punishment for him. Bank officials, speaking anonymously because the proceedings are supposed to be confidential, said that the special committee was still working Monday on what to recommend.
 It was not clear whether the committee, consisting of 7 of the bank's 24 board members, would recommend removing him from office or, more likely, express a loss of confidence in his leadership in a manner intended to force his resignation. Bank officials say a majority of the bank board has determined that he should go.
 The Bush administration has repeatedly backed Mr. Wolfowitz, but President Bush and Mr. Paulson have also called for the completion of the bank's internal review process. Now that that is done, the administration is likely to face renewed pressure.
 European and American officials say that Mr. Paulson has said that the bank process must be respected before the United States is pushed into a position on Mr. Wolfowitz. Several European officials said they believed that Mr. Paulson was in favor of Mr. Wolfowitz leaving, but that Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney were insisting on standing up for him. 
 Mr. Wolfowitz's selection in 2005 drew enormous criticism in Europe, but France and Germany wanted to repair the wounds left from their opposition to the Iraq war and went along with him.
 That mood has changed, many European officials say. As expressed in editorials, political commentaries and even blogs, European sentiment is against Mr. Wolfowitz and in favor of more aid for poor countries. 
 Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany favors Mr. Wolfowitz's resignation, people familiar with her thinking say, but is also eager to avoid a confrontation with Mr. Bush. But as chief of the European Union, she is said to feel obliged to reflect European views, put forth in the European Parliament's call last month for Mr. Wolfowitz to resign.
 Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, due to step down as soon as this summer, has stood by Mr. Bush, but his presumed successor, Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, has tangled with Mr. Wolfowitz on some bank policies.
 European officials say that the Netherlands and the Nordic countries have been most critical of Mr. Wolfowitz.
 Bank officials say that, as of now, only the United States, Japan and Canada would vote in favor of Mr. Wolfowitz. They represent less than 30 percent of the voting shares. Most directors are said to be willing to vote against Mr. Wolfowitz, but some countries, mainly in Africa, are said to be wavering. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul D. Wolfowitz, president of the World Bank, at a news conference at European Council headquarters in Brussels last week. (Photo by Yves Logghe/Associated Press)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ETHICS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%) Ethics

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (50%) Steven R Weisman; Paul D Wolfowitz; George W (Pres) Bush; Shaha Ali Riza

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



142 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 918 words

BYLINE: By Henry Fountain

 BODY:
 It's Still Dark Out, So Why Are the Birds Singing Away? 
 Being the divas that they are, songbirds don't like noise. Urban birds have been known to alter their songs to be heard above the racket -- making them shorter, higher pitched or louder, or changing their patterns.
 But how about singing at night, when cities are quieter? Many birds that normally sing during the day have been observed singing at night. The culprit has usually been thought to be light, cities being so bright at night that the birds stop chirping later or start earlier. 
 Now a study of European robins in Sheffield, England, suggests that it is noise, not light, that drives these birds to sing at night.
 The study, by Richard A. Fuller and colleagues at the University of Sheffield, measured noise levels and singing at 67 sites around the city, where on average ambient noise was an order of magnitude lower at night than during the day. They found that birds sang only during the day at 49 of the sites, and both day and night at 18. Daytime noise levels at these 18 sites were significantly higher than those at the others.
 The researchers, whose study is published in Biology Letters, also measured nighttime light levels and found that increased light was only a weak predictor of nocturnal singing. Noise was by far the dominant effect. On a Martian Plateau, Signs of an Ancient Volcanic Explosion 
 In exploring another world, whether with people or machines, loose rocks are one thing, but bedrock is another.
 ''The problem with loose rocks lying on the ground is you don't know their pedigree,'' said Steven W. Squyres, a Cornell astronomer and principal scientific investigator for the Mars Rover program. Loose rocks could come from anywhere, but ''bedrock is geologic truth,'' he said.
 That's what attracted the Rover program to a Martian feature called Home Plate, a roughly five-sided plateau, 300 feet across, in the planet's southern hemisphere. ''Even from orbit it appeared to be a big exposure of layered bedrock,'' Dr. Squyres said.
 The rover Spirit, one of two craft currently on Mars, checked the site out with its cameras about a year ago, and Dr. Squyres and his team have now interpreted what it saw, in a report in Science. They say the site is probably the weathered remnant of what was a large sheet of material deposited in a volcanic explosion that most likely occurred when basaltic lava hit water.
 In Home Plate's layers the researchers found evidence of coarser rocks on the bottom and finer grains on top, which would be expected if an explosion threw large quantities of material into the air -- the finer grains would take longer to settle out. They also found rounded granules that are probably accretionary lapilli -- volcanic hailstones, formed as material gathers in the air.
 Among the most significant findings is evidence of what is called ''bomb sag'' -- layered sediments that deformed when a flying rock, or ''bomb,'' landed in them. ''That says to us with a high degree of confidence that rock fell from the sky,'' Dr. Squyres said. ''That was an eye-opener.'' A Study That Looks At the Roads Not Built 
 Your average two-lane road is a two-edged sword. While roads do plenty of good -- how would societies and economies function without them? -- from an ecological and environmental perspective they also do plenty of bad. They destroy and fragment habitat, affect watersheds, allow the spread of invasive species, and add noise and pollution wherever they go.
 That's why land-use planners, environmentalists and others study the impact of roads. And why Raymond D. Watts and colleagues at the United States Geological Survey have developed an exhaustive analysis of roadless areas in the lower 48 states.
 Any map can show where roads are not, but Dr. Watts said his study was intended to quantify an elusive characteristic, roadlessness. ''It seems to us that an acre of land that is 10 miles from a road has more value than one that is a mile from a road,'' he said. 
 The study had its origins in an earlier one that Dr. Watts assisted with, on grizzly bears in Yellowstone. The bears avoid roads, so Dr. Watts analyzed road distribution in the Yellowstone area. ''We played visualization games with the data,'' he said, building an artificial topography to show the distribution pattern. The results were stunning. ''It was one of those moments when you say, 'Oh my gosh, look at that,' '' he said.
 For the current study, which is published in Science, he expanded the concept to the 48 states, using a data set of roads and plotting how far each point on a grid is from the nearest one. That generated a ''roadless volume'' -- the farther from a road, the greater the volume -- for each point. Those volumes create an artificial topography (which has no relationship to existing topography like mountains and lakes) that can at a glance give an idea of how roadless an area is. (A movie showing the change over 60 years in part of Colorado is at nytimes.com/science.)
 The team made some interesting findings. Brooklyn, for instance, is the county with the least amount of roadlessness per capita. The most roadless county per capita is Hinsdale, in southern Colorado. And certain areas like coastal Louisiana and the lake regions of northern Minnesota turn out to be highly roadless.
 But if you want to really get away from it all, Dr. Watts recommends a place where in certain spots you can be 20 miles from the nearest road. ''Welcome to Yellowstone,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A panoramic edge-on view of Home Plate, a Martian plateau, shows layering and other features indicative of a volcanic explosion. (Photo by JPL/NASA)
 Roadless space as elevation along Colorado's Front Range in 1937, left, and 1997. (Photographs by the United States Geological Survey) Drawings 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); BIRDS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (86%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (63%) Birds; Research; Noise; Roads and Traffic; Birds; Land Use Policies; Space; Spirit (Mars Rover); Mars (Planet); Explosions; Volcanoes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%) University of Sheffield; Biology Letters (Journal); United States Geological Survey; Science (Journal); Cornell University; Science (Journal); National Aeronautics and Space Administration

PERSON: Henry Fountain; Richard A (Dr) Fuller; Raymond D Watts

GEOGRAPHIC: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (90%) MARS (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



143 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: New Coalition Of Christians Seeks Changes At Borders

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7 

 BODY:
A new coalition of more than 100 largely evangelical Christian leaders and organizations asked Congress on Monday to pass bills to strengthen border controls but also give illegal immigrants ways to gain legal residency. 
 The announcement spotlights evangelical leaders' increasingly visible efforts to push for what they say is a more humane policy in keeping with biblical injunctions to show compassion for their neighbors, the weak and the alien.
 The new group, Christians for Comprehensive Immigration Reform, includes members like the Mennonite Church U.S.A. and the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, which represents Latino evangelicals. 
 It includes individuals like Dr. Joel C. Hunter, pastor of Northland, a megachurch in Longwood, Fla., and Sammy Mah, president of World Relief, an aid group affiliated with the National Association of Evangelicals.
 The concerns of the coalition mirror those of many evangelical leaders who have often staked out conservative positions on other social issues or who have avoided politics entirely. 
 In late March, Dr. Richard Land, the conservative president of the Southern Baptist Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, stood with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, in supporting routes to legalization for illegal immigrants. 
 The Rev. Joel Osteen, whose television ministry reaches millions but who steers clear of politics, has also spoken out for compassionate changes.
 Immigration ''for us is a religious issue, a biblical issue,'' said the Rev. Jim Wallis, president of a liberal evangelical group, Call to Renewal, and a member of the coalition. ''We call it welcoming the stranger.''
 Christians for Comprehensive Immigration Reform does not back particular measures, said Katie Barge, a spokeswoman for Faith in Public Life, the organizers of a news conference about the group. 
 Rather, the coalition calls for bills that would push for border enforcement while improving guest worker programs and offering chances for illegal immigrants to obtain legal status, an approach similar to bills that Congress is considering. 
 The group advertised in newspapers like Roll Call here on Monday and plans to expand to other papers and radio. It is also trying to present at least 200,000 letters to Congress and the White House on immigration, the first 50,000 of which arrived at the news conference. 
 The group plans to focus its initial efforts on the news media and church members in Arizona, Florida, Kansas, Ohio and Pennsylvania, because of the high visibility of the immigration debate in some of those states and the pivotal role some of their members of Congress have in the debate.
 Evangelical leaders have a delicate balance to strike among their rank and file. A poll in March 2006 by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life found that white evangelicals favored a more conservative policy toward immigrants than other Americans. That position is largely based on concerns that immigrants threaten the American way of life, rather than economic worries, the survey said. 
 Immigrants, many of them illegal, have flocked to evangelical congregations, and evangelical pastors understand that immigration changes increasingly affect their congregants directly. 
 The Southern Baptist Convention passed a resolution last year calling for improved border protection and financial and language tests for legalization along with ministry to immigrants, a position most heartily backed, Dr. Land said, by Hispanic Baptists. 
 John Green, senior fellow with the Pew Forum, said: ''There are risks coming out with any positions for evangelical leaders. They risk taking a position that many in their pews don't agree with.''
 But given the great efforts that evangelicals have been making to reach out to Asians and Hispanic immigrants, Mr. Green added, ''if they remain silent, there are great risks as well.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ETHICS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%) Immigration and Refugees; Christians and Christianity; Evangelical Movement; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF EVANGELICALS (56%) Christians for Comprehensive Immigration Reform

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (58%) Neela Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



144 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Increased In March by Most in 4 Months

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7 

 BODY:
Consumer borrowing increased in March by the most in four months as Americans charged more purchases to their credit cards and took out more car loans, Federal Reserve figures show. 
 Consumer credit, or nonmortgage loans to individuals, increased $13.5 billion, or 6.7 percent at an annual rate, to $2.425 trillion, the Fed said Monday. In February, consumer debt rose $5.6 billion.
Consumers faced with tapped-out home equity loans and falling real estate values may be turning to credit cards to keep spending. Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, said low unemployment was also providing support for consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of economic growth.
 ''The jobs situation is favorable, and people probably have the income to spend with the jobs still growing but at a modest pace,'' Mr. Thayer said before the report. ''We'll probably see modest spending growth going forward.''
 The increase for March was the largest since a $20.1 billion gain in November, according to Fed statistics.
 Revolving debt, like that on credit cards, rose $6.8 billion in March after rising $2.2 billion a month earlier, according to statistics from the Fed. Nonrevolving debt, like auto and mobile home loans, rose $6.7 billion for the month after increasing $3.4 billion a month earlier.
 Economists had forecast the Fed's report would show an increase of $4 billion in consumer credit in March, after February's initially reported increase of $3 billion, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 37 economists. 

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Consumer Borrowing'' Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. Annual pace of change March: +6.7 % Feb.: +2.8 Jan.: +4.2 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (92%); CONSUMER LENDING (92%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%) Credit; Consumer Credit

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



145 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: A Cross-Country Blame Game

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: AGOURA HILLS, Calif. 

 BODY:
Visitors to Ownit Mortgage Solutions' offices here are met by an abandoned reception desk and three dying potted plants that appear to have gone months without water.
 How appropriate.
Ownit filed for bankruptcy protection late last year; since then, several companies that specialized in loans to people with weak, or subprime, credit have followed it into bankruptcy as the once-thriving business has withered on the vine. Gone are the lavish parties, the extravagant trips and the executive salaries and sales commissions that routinely topped a million dollars.
 Lenders like New Century Financial and Ownit, many of them based in Southern California, have cut an estimated 12,000 mortgage jobs in California since the start of 2006, according to MortgageDaily.com, a trade publication. Nationally, 16,000 jobs have been lost.
 What used to be a profitable partnership between subprime lenders and Wall Street banks has now degenerated into a cross-country blame game. 
 Lenders in California say big investment banks encouraged and pushed them to make risky loans. On Wall Street, bank executives say mortgage lenders became sloppy and did not pay enough attention to fraud. Whatever the cause, Ownit provides a vivid example of what went wrong.
 William D. Dallas, the founder and chief executive of Ownit, acknowledges loosening lending standards but says he did so reluctantly and under pressure from his investors, particularly Merrill Lynch, which wanted more loans to package into lucrative securities.
 He recalls being asked to make more ''stated income'' loans, in which lenders do not verify the information provided by borrowers and brokers with tax returns, pay stubs or other documentation. The message, he said, was simple: You are leaving money on the table -- do more of them.
 Mr. Dallas, a trim 51-year-old who has been in the mortgage business for more than 25 years, said he disagreed, but complied.
 ''If I can sell it at a profit,'' he said, ''why would I not do it?''
 A spokesman for Merrill Lynch denied Mr. Dallas's assertions, but declined to elaborate.
 Mortgage companies like Ownit grew quickly last year by making it easier for home buyers to take out loans without proving their incomes or making down payments.
 In retrospect, it was exactly the wrong time to ease credit: interest rates were rising and home prices were cresting after a sharp four-year rally. Many in the industry also suspected that speculation and fraud were rampant in many hot real estate markets on the coasts and in the Southwest.
 There is no doubt that the standards in the subprime market deteriorated sharply last year. More than 44 percent of all subprime loans in 2006 were based on limited documents or none at all, up from 38 percent in 2004, according to Lehman Brothers. More than 26 percent of borrowers took out a second mortgage, indicating that they did not have enough savings for a full down payment, up from 14 percent.
 But Tom Marano, who heads the mortgage business at Bear Stearns, disputed the contention that Wall Street pressure led to the loosening of credit standards. Investment banks, he said, do not directly make many loans.
 ''If enough independent companies set standards, that becomes the market,'' he said. ''Wall Street's role is largely one where we assess risk, we purchase loans.''
 Wall Street, however, is now wading more directly and deeply into the business. Big banks and hedge funds are buying up bankrupt or ailing mortgage companies that did not have enough capital to weather the downturn. These bigger financial players and more diversified lenders like Countrywide Financial may well inherit the subprime business. 
 And many companies like Ownit are simply fading away.
 Last year, Ownit made $9.5 billion in loans, up 15 percent from 2005. Slightly fewer than a quarter of the loans it made in 2005 and 2006, according to data from Moody's Investors Service, had limited documentation -- better than the industry average -- but lending to borrowers with lower credit scores increased sharply over that period.
 The popularity of stated-income loans, derisively referred to as ''liar's loans'' by critics, seemed impervious to evidence that the loans made it easier for borrowers and brokers to commit fraud.
 According to a report by the Mortgage Asset Research Institute, for example, one lender found in a sampling of loan applications that the incomes listed on 60 percent of the applications were, on average, 50 percent higher than those on the borrowers' tax returns.
 Lenders liked the loans because they could be processed quickly. Loan officers did not have to verify bank statements, tax returns or other documents.
 Borrowers also were charged a higher interest rate, often about 0.5 percentage point higher, making the loans more profitable.
 ''Lenders didn't highlight to the borrower that they could save a little bit of money had they provided full documentation,'' said Mark H. Adelson, an analyst with Nomura Securities in New York. ''Why not get the borrower to pay a little more interest?''
 Officials at mortgage companies and Wall Street banks acknowledge that it may be too dangerous to allow borrowers with weak credit who are financing 100 percent of a home's purchase price to borrow without documentation of their income. But they defend the practice as appropriate for buyers with better credit or those making a substantial down payment, arguing that it helps extend homeownership.
 The loans are, proponents say, primarily used by borrowers who are self-employed or who earn money through off-the-books second jobs or child support payments. The practice also helps those relying on incomes of companions or roommates who are not listed on mortgage applications because they have a tarnished credit history.
 ''The lower-income population doesn't always have the traditional documentation that the middle-class borrower typically has,'' said Mr. Marano of Bear Stearns. ''There has been an effort to, frankly, satisfy some of the needs in the housing market by expanding the guidelines.''
 That desire to expand homeownership fed Mr. Dallas's own entrepreneurial fire.
 ''I am passionate about the normal person owning a home,'' said Mr. Dallas, who is also chairman of the Fox Sports Grill restaurant chain and manages the business interests of the Olsen twins. ''I think owning a home solves all their problems.''
 As he discusses homeownership, Mr. Dallas becomes animated and his voice rises. He fetches copies of a booklet, ''Strategic Financing: A Survival Guide for Loan Originators,'' he helped write for loan officers and brokers, and points to charts and tables to help explain his thinking. His speaking style seems part revival preacher and part courtroom lawyer.
 Mr. Dallas created Ownit from a small mortgage company he and his partners bought in 2003 for $30 million. Two years earlier, he had left First Franklin, a lender he co-founded in 1981 and which was then owned by National City. (Merrill Lynch bought First Franklin last year for $1.3 billion.)
 Ownit was different from other subprime lenders. About 70 percent of the company's loans were made for the purchase of homes, while about 60 percent of all subprime loans were used to refinance existing debts. 
 Mr. Dallas, a native of Ohio who moved to California as a young adult, said he created Ownit to serve borrowers who earned less than $100,000 and had less than $100,000 in assets, a group he calls the ''mass nonaffluents.''
 The company was a big lender of 40-year and 45-year mortgages, which Mr. Dallas says are a better way to put moderate- and low-income families into homes than adjustable-rate loans that start with low introductory rates but reset after a few years to much higher rates. 
 His passion proved compelling. In 2005, Merrill Lynch bought a 20 percent stake in Ownit, whose majority owner was CIVC Partners, a private equity firm in Chicago.
 Merrill, along with JPMorgan Chase, also provided Ownit with billions of dollars in credit lines to make mortgages. 
 But Mr. Dallas's relationship with Merrill began to sour in 2006 after the bank announced in September that it was buying First Franklin and as defaults on loans Ownit made that year spiked.
 Merrill argued that Ownit was contractually obligated to buy back loans made to borrowers who had missed the first few payments. Mr. Dallas asserted his company would not do so because the borrowers made their payments to Ownit before the loans were sold. He further argued that Ownit was not responsible for missed payments after Merrill bought the loans.
 The disagreements reached a crisis in early December, when the company's credit lines were expiring. Merrill and Ownit's other backers decided against continuing to finance the company, which was losing money.
 The squabbling has continued into bankruptcy court. Creditors are opposing a compensation package of as much as $300,000 for Mr. Dallas, arguing that he is not doing much to earn the pay, which would be used to reduce the $1.8 million he owes the company, according to bankruptcy court filings.
 When the company's 800 employees were laid off in December, few had an inkling about its troubles. Many left so quickly that they left behind family pictures, toothbrushes and other personal items.
 ''We were in disbelief and shock,'' said Lisa Tait, an operations manager with 26 years of experience in the business. She said the collapse was different from past downturns because this time there were no warning signs. ''A group of us had become very close. Some people were upset; some people were angry.''
 Thankfully, she said, most of her colleagues have found other jobs in the healthy Southern California economy. Ms. Tait, 43, returned to Ownit earlier this year to help it through bankruptcy proceedings.
 Hallways at the office are lined with boxes filled with loan documents that are waiting to be sorted and sent on to the investors who bought the mortgages. One corner of the former cafeteria is taken up by boxes marked ''DEAD,'' containing files for loans that were never finished.
 Executives are negotiating with regulators on what should be done with all the files, which they are legally required to preserve.
 ''This is what a bankrupt subprime company looks like,'' Mr. Dallas said. ''No employees, and lots of files.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Dallas, right, chief executive of Ownit Mortgage Solutions, and the chief financial officer, John duHadway, at the Ownit offices. (Photo by Axel Koester for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Last month, William Dallas, founder of Ownit Mortgage Solutions, hugged Lisa Tait, an operations manager, thanking her for her work. (Photo by Axel Koester for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Graph: ''Deteriorating Portfolio'' The mortgages issued by Ownit Mortgage Solutions last year have deteriorated at a faster rate than the ones issued in 2005. That matches the trend in the overall subprime market. Graph tracks percentage of Ownit's mortgages that are more than 60 days delinquent, are in bankruptcy, are in foreclosure or involve a property that has been repossessed since 2005. (Source by ABSNet)(pg. C1) Chart: ''Subprime Central'' Eleven of the 25 largest subprime lenders in 2006 were based in Southern California. LENDER HEADQUARTERS 2006 LOANS, IN BILLIONS HSBC Finance Prospect Heights, Ill. $52.8 New Century Financial* Irvine, Calif. 51.6 Countrywide Financial Calabasas, Calif. 40.6 CitiMortgage O'Fallon, Mo. 38.0 WMC Mortgage Burbank, Calif. 33.2 Fremont General Santa Monica, Calif. 32.3 Ameriquest Mortgage Orange, Calif. 29.5 Option One* Irvine, Calif. 28.8 Wells Fargo Home Mortgage Des Moines 27.9 First Franklin Financial San Jose, Calif. 27.7 Washington Mutual Seattle 26.6 Residential Funding Minneapolis 21.2 Aegis Mortgage Houston 17.0 Accredited Home Lenders San Diego 15.8 American General Finance Evansville, Ind. 15.1 BNC Mortgage* Irvine, Calif. 14.5 Chase Home Finance Bernardsville, N.J. 11.6 Equifirst Charlotte, N.C. 10.8 NovaStar Financial Kansas City, Mo. 10.2 Ownit Mortgage Solutions Agoura Hills, Calif. 9.5 ResMae Mortgage Brea, Calif. 7.7 Mortgage Lenders Network USA Middletown, Conn. 6.0 ECC Capital* Irvine, Calif. 5.5 Fieldstone Mortgage Columbia, Md. 5.0 Nationstar Mortgage Lewisville, Tex. 4.6 *Grouped together on the map because all are based in Irvine, Calif. (Source by Inside B&C Lending)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); HOUSING MARKET (84%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMMISSION PAY (75%); SALES FORCE (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); SALES COMPENSATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); HOME PRICES (60%) Housing; Mortgages; Bankruptcies; Frauds and Swindling; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Ownit Mortgage Solutions

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (90%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



146 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: An Irish Taste For Real Estate In Manhattan

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
They live an ocean away, but that has not stopped the Irish from lining up to buy condominiums in Midtown Manhattan, often years before they are built. 
 In some cases, entire buildings or large blocks of apartments in unfinished high-rises are being sold to Irish investors hungry to own a piece of New York City.
 Neil McCann, an entrepreneur in Belfast, joined the rush of would-be Manhattan landlords last year when he said he signed a contract to buy a one-bedroom apartment near Gramercy Park for $600,000. 
 ''It's an Irishman's dream to be able to go to Manhattan and be able to buy property there,'' said Mr. McCann, 36, who added that he hoped to buy more New York apartments. 
 With a weak dollar, Mr. McCann said, the New York apartments are relative bargains compared with real estate in Ireland and Britain. 
 After a long economic boom that earned their country the nickname the Celtic Tiger, the Irish are flush with cash and searching the globe for places to invest it. 
 The westward flow of money ''seems to be another example of how, in the wake of the Celtic Tiger, the relationship between Ireland and the United States has flipped,'' said Linda Dowling Almeida, who teaches Irish studies at New York University. 
 The buyers do not even have to travel to New York, because the sellers are coming to them. Armed with glossy brochures about amenity-laden towers, New York brokers like Anne Marie Moriarty, of the Corcoran Group, have been dropping in to Dublin and Belfast and taking deposits.
 ''Most of these people are buying one or two apartments at a time,'' said Ms. Moriarty, who has specialized in selling to the Irish for about two and a half years.
 ''Many of them buy off plan, because they're fearless,'' she added, referring to the custom of putting money down on apartments long before they are completed.
 Of course, people from all over the world have been contributing to the sustained demand for apartments in Manhattan. But developers and brokers said the Irish seem to be the voracious newcomers of the moment, though their purchases have drawn less attention than previous buying sprees by the Japanese and the Saudis, who made splashes by acquiring trophy properties like Rockefeller Center and the Plaza Hotel. 
 ''Because of the weak dollar, we're seeing a lot of European buyers and it just seems like there's a disproportionate amount from Ireland,'' said Jonathan J. Miller, president of Miller Samuel, a real estate consulting company.
 Jules Demchick, who has developed several buildings in Manhattan, said the Irish are following a long parade of foreign buyers. ''I've seen the Persians and the French and the Dutch and the Germans and the South Americans do this,'' said Mr. Demchick, the president of J. D. Carlisle. 
 Still, he said he was surprised when Cathal McGinley, managing director of the Irish broker Kean Mahony Smith, offered to take a block of apartments in the Centria, a high-rise near Rockefeller Center, and sell them in Ireland.
 After Mr. McGinley's company quickly sold the first 25, he came back for more. Eventually, most of the units in the building were sold to Irish investors, most of whom planned to rent them.
 ''Bar none, the No. 1 investment strategy for an Irish person is through property,'' Mr. McGinley said. ''Your average Joe on the street has probably got two, three, four, five residential assets. It's considered to be a safe play.''
 To them, an apartment in the center of Manhattan, no matter if it measures only 800 square feet, is a ''trophy asset,'' Mr. McGinley said.
 His company also sold more than 60 apartments in the Atelier, a new building on the west end of 42nd Street.
 Jay Eisenstadt, whose company, Esplanade Capital in Manhattan, is developing a 43-story condominium on Eighth Avenue in the theater district, said he planned to sell all 122 units in the building to a company based in Dublin, the Sorrento Group, which would then resell them to investors. Selling them as a block is more cost-effective than lining up buyers one by one, Mr. Eisenstadt said.
 ''The amount of money floating around over here is just phenomenal,'' said Bryan Turley, Sorrento's chief executive. ''At some stage it has to leave the island. If you follow where Irish money is going, a good deal of it is going into property.''
 Mr. Turley said his company had bought a piece of land near the Empire State Building, where a construction company owned by two brothers from County Kerry will build a 110-unit apartment building. Sorrento will then buy the finished building and sell the apartments, probably mostly to Irish buyers, he said.
 At the heart of this investment surge lies some simple math, brokers said. With the dollar at historically low levels against the euro and the British pound, apartments generally cost less in Manhattan than in Dublin or London. But they still rent for more in Manhattan.
 ''Even if they could afford to buy in Dublin,'' Ms. Moriarty said, ''they could not get rent anywhere near what they get here.''
 Kevin Harmon, a broker with Savills Hamilton Osbourne King, a real estate company in Dublin, used the example of a luxurious one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan that would sell for $900,000, equivalent to about 665,000 euros. 
 ''For 665,000 euros, you'd buy a very nice two- or three-bedroom apartment in a good development'' in the Dublin area, Mr. Harmon said. But the rent on the apartment in Dublin would be about 2,000 euros, or $2,700 a month, while the place in New York would rent for about $4,000 a month, he said.
 ''Going to New York and looking at those prices in dollars, there was a time when they would be a shock,'' Mr. Harmon said. 
 Now, with the Irish property market cooling after a long, steep run, he added, ''People feel there is better opportunity for capital appreciation there.''
 To experienced property buyers like Mr. McCann, investing in real estate almost anywhere sounds safer then buying stocks on the exchange in Dublin or London. Mr. McCann, who said he had never owned a share of company stock, said he largely agreed with Mr. McGinley's view that trusting one's retirement to the vagaries of the financial markets would be ''utter madness.''
 Many of their countrymen have shown less hesitation, sinking their self-directed retirement funds into apartments far from home, even in a country that they have never visited.
 They have bought so much property in England, Spain and in countries in Eastern Europe that they have been dubbed Crispies -- short for cash-rich Irish seeking properties in Europe.
 Irish newspapers feed the obsession with weekly sections filled with articles about far-flung markets. A recent edition of The Irish Times carried one article about buying apartments in Sofia, Bulgaria.
 By comparison, Manhattan, with a well-established set of rules for buying and selling apartments, appears to be an island of stability, Mr. McCann said.
 ''It's not like you're investing in old Communist countries where landowners have only recently received title to their property,'' Mr. McCann said.
 Still, not everybody in the real estate business in Manhattan sees it as a sure thing. William Fegan, a partner with a real estate development company, Tribeach Holdings in New York, said he feared that many Irish buyers were too focused on the potential rental income and not enough on all of the other costs of owning an apartment in New York.
 ''For the life of me I haven't been able to figure it out,'' Mr. Fegan said. ''If I was to advise them, I'd probably tell them not to do it. Carrying an apartment in New York City is an expensive proposition.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A real estate broker in Dublin offered to take a block of apartments in the Centria, a high-rise on West 48th Street, and sell them in Ireland. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); US DOLLAR (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Foreign Investments; Apartment Houses; Housing

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRELAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (51%) Ireland; New York City; Great Britain; Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



147 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Clean Coal

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Coal's Energy Potential Is an Engineering Challenge Now'' (May 1): Your article highlights a fundamental error in the way we have approached energy policy. The economic model that we use focuses inordinately on the direct cost of electricity generation. This is like deciding to buy a house based solely on the monthly mortgage payment, without considering property taxes, utilities and insurance. 
Coal is not cheap when we expand the economic model to include extraction costs and environmental mitigation costs related to extraction and power generation. A product's price should be sufficient to cover the costs associated with bringing that product to market. It is misleading to refer to coal as cheap without considering all costs, including the costs associated with restoring soils and reforesting mountains as well as carbon sequestration. We cannot make informed choices if we use incomplete information. Robyn Tarantino Waltham, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL PRICES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); GLOBAL WARMING (59%); REFORESTATION (51%) Electric Light and Power; Coal; Weather ; Global Warming; Finances

PERSON: Robyn Tarantino

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



148 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Where History Reigns

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Although as a child I had turtles named Disraeli and Gladstone, I was never invited to sip Champagne with the queen until yesterday. Although I've been an Anglophile all my life, I was never able to participate in a fawning orgy of Albion worship until the British ambassador's party for the monarch yesterday afternoon.
 It was wonderful. 
 I got to enjoy many of the features I love about Britain: repressed emotions, overarticulate conversationalists and crustless sandwiches. It reminded me why over the decades so many of my Jewish brethren have gone in for the ''Think Yiddish, Act British'' lifestyle -- shopping at Ralph Lauren and giving their sons names that seemed quintessentially English: Irving, Sidney, Norman and Milton. More deeply, it reminded me why Britain is such a successful country.
 Britain is a nation with the soul of a historian. Its society is studded with institutions that keep the past alive, of which the monarchy is only the most famous. Its press is filled with commemorations, anniversaries and famously eloquent obituaries. Britain has always produced politically engaged celebrity historians, from Gibbon, Macaulay and Trevelyan down to Simon Schama, John Keegan, Andrew Roberts and Niall Ferguson today. 
 In short, Brits live with the constant presence of their ancestors. When Isaiah Berlin compared F.D.R. and Churchill, he observed that while Roosevelt had an untroubled faith in the future, Churchill's ''strongest sense is the sense of the past.'' 
 History, in the British public culture, takes precedence over philosophy, psychology, sociology and economics. And with a few obvious exceptions, British historians have not seen history as the unfolding of abstract processes. They have not seen the human story as the march toward some culminating Idea.
 Instead they've seen history as a hodgepodge of activity -- as one damn thing after another. As a result, George Orwell generalized, the English ''have a horror of abstract thought, they feel no need for any philosophy or systematic 'worldview.' '' This isn't because they are practical -- that's a national myth, Orwell wrote -- it's just that given the stuttering realities of history, they find systems absurd. 
 Even philosophers in Britain tend to be skeptics, and emphasize how little we know or can know. Edmund Burke distrusted each individual's stock of reason and put his faith in the accumulated wisdom of tradition. Adam Smith put his faith in the collective judgment of the market. Michael Oakeshott ridiculed rationalism. Berlin celebrated pluralism, arguing there is no single body of truth.
 This skepticism permeates national life, for while the British can be socially deferential, they are rarely intellectually deferential. The French and the Germans might defer to their intellectuals, and the Arabs might defer to their clerics, but the British public is incapable. That's why the British trade unions could take on the upper classes in their day, and why the Brits had an open debate about European unification. The British elites exerted enormous pressure in favor of union, but the tabloid readers didn't care. 
 The Brits' historical consciousness means that in moments of crisis they can all swing together and act as one. But in normal times, as Orwell also noted, ''the gentleness of the English civilization is perhaps its most marked characteristic.'' Americans talk of ''happiness,'' but Brits talk, less transcendentally, of ''enjoyment.''
 American journalists, for example, are spiritually descended from Walter Lippmann. We are always earnestly striving toward some future elevated state. British journalists are spiritually descended from Samuel Johnson. They are conversationalists enjoying the inevitable conflicts that, as W. C. Sellar and R. J. Yeatman put it, pit the wrong but romantic against the right but repugnant. 
 Before I slip totally into sceptred isle fanaticism, I should point out that it's better to be an American Anglophile than to be British. As an American, you don't actually have to put up with the snobbery, the cynicism and the insularity. You can choose the slice of Britain you want to admire.
 The slice I was enjoying yesterday on the ambassador's lawn, as hundreds of Washington power broker types directed their rapturous attention toward Her Majesty, is the Britain that doesn't often fall for ludicrous ideas. It's the Britain that has revitalized its economy even while France struggles, and has mostly preserved the pillars, like the monarchy, of its distinct national identity. It's the Britain still too well bred to mention, as a few expats and Yanks did yesterday, that the Queen looks a bit shorter than Helen Mirren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); FAMILY (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); PHILOSOPHY (69%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) United States International Relations; Foreign Service; Royal Family

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (54%) David Brooks; Queen of Great Britain Elizabeth Ii

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (87%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (75%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); GERMANY (87%); UNITED STATES (75%) Great Britain; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



149 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Merger Activity Helps Large Companies Close Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Large stocks closed mostly higher yesterday, as a $27 billion bid by Alcoa for a Canadian aluminum rival, Alcan, buoyed blue-chip issues. The Dow Jones industrial average passed 13,300. 
 The move by Alcoa, one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow index, gave much of the market a lift because investors often regard merger-and-acquisition activity as a bullish bet by companies on future profit. The Dow rose 48.35 points, or 0.36 percent, to 13,312.97. It has gained in 24 of the last 27 sessions.
Broader market indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index moved up 3.86 points, or 0.26 percent, to 1,509.48, a bit closer to its record high of 1,527.46 in March 2000. The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.20 points, or 0.05 percent, to 2,570.95. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies slipped 1.01 points, or 0.12 percent, to 831.87. 
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by nearly 4 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume came to 1.32 billion shares.
 Crude oil for June delivery fell 46 cents on the New York Mercantile Exchange, to $61.47 a barrel.
 Investors had little earnings data to go on as they tried to determine if Wall Street's gains would continue. They are also awaiting the Federal Reserve's decision tomorrow on interest rates. Yesterday afternoon, the Fed reported that consumer borrowing increased in March at a brisk annual pace of 6.7 percent, the fastest in four months.
 ''We're kind of waiting for macroeconomic news to shape the outlook for the rest of the year,'' said Les Satlow, portfolio manager at Cabot Money Management. ''I do believe the market will spend some time here trying to catch its breath or even pull back a bit.''
 Stocks have moved higher in recent weeks on better-than-expected earnings. But as first-quarter reports dwindle, analysts will be looking for clues about the economy and any further hints from companies about the health of their businesses.
 Mr. Satlow said he thought that expectations had been low going into the earnings season. ''We may have squeezed some of those low expectations out of the market,'' he said. ''So the bar is rising again in terms of earnings expectations, which I don't think is a good thing.''
 In corporate news, Alcoa offered $58.60 in cash and 0.4108 share for each share of Alcan, a 20 percent premium to Friday's closing price. Alcoa said it took the offer directly to shareholders after Alcan rejected its overtures for two years. Alcoa's stock rose $2.97, or 8.3 percent, to $38.63; in New York, Alcan surged $21.08, or 34.5 percent, to $82.11.
 Armor Holdings, a maker of military vehicles and bulletproof vests, agreed to be acquired by a British-based military contractor, BAE Systems, for $3.37 billion. Including unvested stock options, which increase the value of a deal, the companies put the transaction at $4.1 billion. Armor advanced $4.45, or 5.4 percent, to $86.60. BAE rose 1.75 percent in Frankfurt; the market in London was closed for a holiday.
 Peerless Manufacturing, which makes air filters for refineries and shipbuilders, rose $1.99, or 5.5 percent, to $38, after reporting that its quarterly earnings rose 7 percent.
 Among technology issues, Yahoo declined 60 cents, to $30.38. But Apple rose $3.11, to $103.92, a closing high. 
 On the bond market, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 99 31/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.63 percent from 4.64 percent late Friday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills and three-year notes: (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price 3-Mo. Bills: 98.796 6-Mo. Bills: 97.565 High Rate 3-Mo. Bills: 4.760 6-Mo. Bills: 4.815 Investment Rate 3-Mo. Bills: 4.898 6-Mo. Bills: 5.017 Low Rate 3-Mo. Bills: 4.720 6-Mo. Bills: 4.780 Median Rate 3-Mo. Bills: 4.750 6-Mo. Bills: 4.805 Total applied for 3-Mo. Bills: $44,490,906 6-Mo. Bills: $42,433,976 Accepted 3-Mo. Bills: $19,650,386 6-Mo. Bills: $17,548,628 Noncompetitive 3-Mo. Bills: $1,948,645 6-Mo. Bills: $1,771,082 Both issues are dated May 10, 2007. The three-month bills mature on August 09, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on November 08, 2007. (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price: 99.794 High Yield: 4.574 Low Yield: 4.500 Median Yield: 4.554 Total applied for: $38,429,231 Accepted: $18,939,151 Noncompetitive: $391,341 Interest set at: 4 3/5rsaquo 4/5% The 3-year notes mature May 15, 2010. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (96%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (92%); RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (85%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (92%); AA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (85%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



150 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14 Europe Joins Effort to Oust Wolfowitz From World Bank Leading governments of Europe, mounting a new campaign to push Paul D. Wolfowitz out as World Bank president, signaled that they were willing to let the United States choose the next head of the World Bank, but only if Mr. Wolfowitz stepped down soon. A1 Israeli Prime Minister to Stay Israel's prime minister, Ehud Olmert, survived three no-confidence votes against his government, part of the political fallout from a harsh report on the country's leadership during last summer's war in Lebanon. A3 Violence After French Election Violent protests against the election of Nicolas Sarkozy as president of France ended after hundreds of people had been arrested, hundreds of cars gutted, and hundreds of windows smashed in several cities across France. 
 A8 Debating Nuclear Deterrence A debate has broken out within the Bush administration over how to adapt the American approach to nuclear deterrence to an era in which stateless terrorists, with no territory or populations to retaliate against, have emerged as the greatest source of nuclear fears. A10 Car Bombs Kill 25 in Iraq Successive suicide car bombs hit a police checkpoint near Ramadi, the provincial security chief said, killing 25 people and dealing a blow to a city considered a showcase for the strategy of integrating insurgents into the Iraqi security forces. A14 NATIONAL A16-23 A City Remains Divided Years After Desegregation Fifty years after an epic desegregation struggle at a high school in Little Rock, Ark., the school district is still riven by racial conflict, casting a pall on this year's ambitious commemorative efforts, just as a federal judge declared Little Rock's schools finally desegregated. A1 Post-Culinary School Challenge The rise of celebrity chefs has been good for culinary schools. But would-be top chefs face a challenge that most lawyers, engineers or nurses do not: few jobs in their chosen field pay enough for them to retire their student loans. A1 State Dinner for Royal Family An exclusive white-tie dinner was given by President Bush for Queen Elizabeth, her husband, Prince Philip, and 130 other A-list guests, as the royal couple arrived for a two-day visit to the capital. A21 Christians on Border Policy A new coalition of more than 100 largely evangelical Christian leaders and organizations have asked Congress to pass bills to strengthen border controls but also give illegal immigrants ways to gain legal residency. A16 Obama Speaks to Auto Industry Senator Barack Obama of Illinois delivered a stern message to Detroit auto companies, saying they had done little to lessen the nation's dependence on foreign oil and needed to improve the fuel efficiency of their vehicles. A18 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8 Irish Invest in New York After Economic Boom After a long period of economic growth in their country, the Irish are flush with cash and are lining up to spend it on condominiums in Midtown Manhattan, often years before they are built. In some cases, entire buildings or large blocks of apartments in unfinished high-rises are being sold to Irish investors hungry to own a little piece of New York City. A1 SCIENCE TIMES F1-8 Tribes Market Carbon Credits The market for carbon credits promises to be a boon for some land-rich but cash-poor tribes like the Nez Perce in Lapwai, Idaho. Selling carbon sequestration credits early in the growth of a forest lets the tribe realize some money more quickly. F3 Health & Fitness F5 BUSINESS DAY C1-11 Alcoa Makes Offer for Rival Alcoa made an unsolicited $27 billion offer for a rival, Alcan of Canada, which would propel it back to the top spot in the aluminum industry, a position it surrendered just months ago. C1 Business Digest C2 OBITUARIES C13 Russell W. Kruse An auctioneer who achieved fame for thinking up and building the business of auctioning classic cars, he was 85. C13 EDITORIAL A24-25 Editorials: Medicare privatization abuses; France under new leadership; Congress and the student loan scam; stamping out diverse voices. Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert. Crossword E2 TV Listings E8 Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RACE & RACISM (86%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (86%); BRITISH ROYALTY (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); RIOTS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); SUICIDE (69%); ARRESTS (69%); JUDGES (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (67%); BRITISH MONARCHS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (65%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); RELIGION (64%); CELEBRITIES (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); EHUD OLMERT (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%); PRINCE PHILIP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



151 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, New Challenge In Age-Old Rift

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7 

 BODY:
Almost nothing rouses as much passion, anger or history for the Democrats as the issue of trade.
 Defining the rules of engagement in a fiercely competitive global marketplace, trade policy cuts to the heart of the Democrats' identity, how they view their party's past and envision its future. It can divide them along regional and economic lines -- Midwest vs. Pacific Rim, manufacturing vs. agriculture, Main Street vs. Wall Street.
Nobody knows this better than Representative Sander M. Levin, chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade and a 24-year veteran of the House from the suburbs of Detroit.
 Mr. Levin is one of the newly empowered Democratic leaders trying to find a trade policy that can unite their party and heal a painful rift between those who see a globalized economy as inevitable and good and those who see the cost under current policies, in lost jobs and unsettled lives, as simply too great. 
 President Bill Clinton sought to forge a new, protrade consensus in his party in the early 1990s, but it was always fragile, and it has come under growing strain in recent years. 
 Now, the issue poses one of the most important challenges for this new Democratic-led Congress -- in some ways, as important to the soul of the Democratic Party as the struggle over the war in Iraq. 
 It may be leading Democrats to yet another confrontation with the Bush administration. And the Ways and Means Committee, with sweeping jurisdiction over tariffs and trade for more than 200 years, is at the center of it.
 ''We're building a Democratic trade policy,'' Mr. Levin said, in one of several interviews this spring. ''There's no guarantee of success.''
 Since the Democrats took control of the committee in January, the 75-year-old Mr. Levin has met with restless Democratic freshmen who helped their party regain the majority by promising to ''do something'' about the job losses caused by a globalized economy -- and who now want to deliver.
 He has also met with business delegations, like the group of fiber manufacturers who recently pleaded in his office not to be made ''the sacrificial lamb,'' as one put it, in any trade agreement with South Korea.
 Mr. Levin has delivered speeches and held hearings, trying to assure his party's left that he understands the upheaval that trade can cause -- he is, after all, from a state where the auto industry has been buffeted, for years, by global competition -- while assuring centrists that neither he nor his party are protectionists. 
 This spring, Mr. Levin and his committee chairman, Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, unveiled ''A New Trade Policy for America,'' a first effort at a grand compromise. It promises to use trade agreements to raise labor and environmental standards around the world, push open new markets for American goods and use new government programs to cushion the growing insecurity of American workers.
 At the same time, Democratic leaders have engaged in talks with the Bush administration, which wants to win Congressional approval for several trade agreements now pending, including with Peru and Panama, and secure authority from Congress to negotiate more under special, fast-track procedures. In recent weeks, those talks have escalated, and Mr. Rangel has repeatedly voiced his eagerness to forge a bipartisan trade policy. 
 All of this is playing out under the nervous, suspicious gaze of an army of interest and constituent groups, particularly on the left, where many fear the committee will eventually bow to the powerful interests on the protrade side. Organized labor in particular has been voicing concern in recent days. 
 ''Sandy Levin sits on a committee that has tremendous pressure on it from Wall Street,'' said Representative Marcy Kaptur, Democrat of Ohio and a longtime critic of American trade policy. ''I hope he'll be able to stand up for Main Street, but I don't know.''
 Mr. Levin said fears that Democrats would give up on their core demands, for labor and environmental standards, were groundless. ''If anyone thinks that after all this work, we're going to give it up, they're just wrong,'' he said.
 The Ways and Means Committee has rarely been known as a hotbed of economic populism. Its new 24-member Democratic majority has a voting record significantly more protrade than the House Democratic caucus as a whole, concluded an analysis of 15 trade votes by I.M. Mac Destler, a professor of public policy at the University of Maryland and author of ''American Trade Politics.''
 And Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, many analysts say, is far friendlier to trade agreements than her immediate predecessor as Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt.
 Still, Mr. Levin and his fellow Democrats face a political backlash on trade and globalization as intense as it has been in years, a point underscored by the freshman class of 2006. Across the industrial heartland and the Northeast, those freshman campaigned on a scathing critique of American trade policies. How could Americans compete against workers in developing countries, they asked, while maintaining decent wages, health benefits and pensions? 
 ''It's an issue near and dear to our hearts, and one we feel we need to deliver change on,'' said Representative Betty Sutton, a Democrat from northeast Ohio.
 Ms. Sutton and her fellow freshmen have no seat on the committee -- members usually wait for years to get one -- but they quickly served notice that they wanted to be consulted.
 Mr. Levin, a man whose natural demeanor appears to be one of grave concern, is at the center of these complicated currents. Like many other Democrats, he argues that the old terms of the trade debate no longer apply, that it is a false choice to set up a clash between free trade and protectionism, internationalism and isolationism. Trade cannot be stopped, he says, but it cannot simply be left to the vagaries of a free market. 
 ''You have to bring about an expansion of trade so it works better for many more people,'' he said. ''Trickle-down isn't enough.'' 
 Elected in 1982, after serving in the State Legislature and the Carter administration, Mr. Levin represents a traditionally Democratic district, largely based in Macomb County. 
 The main Democratic demand, at the moment, is that new trade agreements require countries to meet international labor standards on issues like child labor and the right of workers to organize, a provision fervently backed by the Democrats' longtime ally, organized labor. Officials say the latest sticking point is whether such provisions would make labor laws in the United States vulnerable to legal challenge, a concern raised by the administration and its allies.
 Mr. Levin and Mr. Rangel are also calling for much more action to open foreign markets to American goods, to make trade ''a two-way street,'' a sticking point for Mr. Levin in the administration's pending agreement with South Korea, a country he asserts has constructed an ''iron curtain'' against American autos.
 For all the emotion, the politics of trade do not simply break down into the old stereotypes of labor-beholden Democrats vs. Republicans in thrall to big business. The economic base of a lawmaker's district is key. For example, Representative Jim McDermott, a senior member of Ways and Means, is a quintessential liberal, but he is also from Seattle, a city heavily dependent on trade.
 Still, even an internationalist like Mr. McDermott believes many voters are ''re-evaluating'' the idea that ''everybody wins with trade,'' a shift shared by some liberal economists who had supported the idea that more trade is inherently good. 
 ''You can't stop globalization, I know that,'' he said one day this spring, while a delegation of Indian parliamentarians waited to see him. ''So then the question is, What do you do to try and make it possible for there to be more winners in this deal?''
 Democratic strategists want to respond to the new economic populism that helped elect many of the freshmen. But they also want to avoid alienating voters (and lawmakers) who are centrists and far more positive about trade. The leaders remember the bitterness of previous internal battles -- notably, over the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993, a wrenching vote that still makes many Democrats angry. 
 Against this backdrop, Mr. Levin and Mr. Rangel began shopping their trade proposal in March. A main provision would create an array of programs to help workers cope with the dislocations of a changing economy, like expanding education and training programs and strengthening the social safety net.
 Labor officials said they were, in general, encouraged by the proposals. Ms. Kaptur was wary, noting that Mr. Rangel was from New York and Ms. Pelosi from San Francisco. Could they understand, she asked, how different a global economy looked from the industrial heartland?
 And 71 House Democrats signed a letter two weeks ago praising the new proposals, but adding pointedly that it should be ''a firm bottom line from which you build in your negotiations with the administration.''
 Mr. Rangel's negotiations with the administration have made many Democrats nervous. Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana, the ranking Republican on Ways and Means, said his party was eager to work toward a bipartisan coalition. 
 ''I really do think there's a way for us to strike a middle ground," Mr. McCrery said.
 Mr. Destler, the Maryland professor, said the challenge for Democratic leaders was achieving a critical mass of Democratic support by winning enough from the administration to ''credibly argue'' that ''they have brought about a significant shift in trade policy priorities.''
 Mr. Levin outlined a broader goal: to spread the benefits of globalization. And, perhaps, to heal an old wound in his party, and its industrial base. The Committee 
 This is the second in a series on the House Ways and Means Committee, which handles issues like taxes, health care and trade. The first article profiled Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York and chairman of the committee. Future articles will look at how its 41 members deal with issues and how it confronts pressures from industries, interest groups and others. Articles: nytimes.com/washington. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''We're building a Democratic trade policy,'' Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan said. ''There's no guarantee of success.'' (Photo by Susan Etheridge for The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) International Trade and World Market; Surveys and Series; International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: Congress (US)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) Robin Toner; Sander M (Rep) Levin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



152 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Cheering Change at Elysee, And in Neighbors' Attitudes

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
All in all, the French who live and work in New York had reason to feel chipper yesterday. In even greater percentages than their compatriots back home, they had voted strongly for Nicolas Sarkozy to be France's next president. On Sunday, their jour de gloire arrived.
 For Philippe Lerch, there was little mystery to why expatriates as a group preferred the conservative, tough-talking, pro-American Mr. Sarkozy to his Socialist opponent, Segolene Royal. 
''In the French community, there are a lot of executives for multinational companies,'' said Mr. Lerch, a New York-based economist for an international charity called the Surgeons of Hope Foundation. ''The great majority of them are right-wing, and come here for money purposes.'' He had voted for Ms. Royal. But he hardly bore an all-is-lost look just because the election did not go as he had wished.
 Isabelle Courtin, who backed the winner, had a different take. ''With Sarkozy,'' she said, ''you know where you are.'' Entendu. But why was the vote for him in the United States so strong, fully 10 percentage points higher than in France? ''Perhaps people who live outside France have more reality,'' Ms. Courtin said.
 She had worked in France for an American pharmaceutical company, but moved to New York last September. Money was not her motive, she said. ''I would like to show my daughter that we could have another way of life,'' Ms. Courtin said. But why New York? ''It's the center of the world,'' she replied.
 That's certainly what most New Yorkers believe.
 For several hundred French expats, the inner core of that center on Sunday was East 60th Street, home to the French Institute Alliance Francaise. Fiaf, as the cultural organization calls itself -- it rhymes with Piaf -- had set up a giant television screen in a basement auditorium so that people could follow the election coverage live from Paris. The atmosphere at times resembled that of a World Cup soccer match.
 It was largely a young crowd, roaring for Mr. Sarkozy and booing Ms. Royal. Even before his victory was proclaimed, the room rang with chants of ''On va gagner'' -- ''We are going to win.'' When his followers in Paris sang France's stirring, if sanguinary, national anthem, the Fiaf crowd joined in. (Though, truth be told, Victor Laszlo and his bunch did more justice to ''La Marseillaise'' at Rick's Cafe Americain.) 
 People in the auditorium cheered the president-elect's pledge that Americans can count on France. But they also applauded his cautionary note that ''friends can think differently.'' Many were well aware that thinking differently can cost them.
 Like others who came here recently, Ms. Courtin said she had experienced no anti-French hostility. But those who were around in 2003, when President Jacques Chirac refused to enlist in the Bush administration's Iraq war, remember well the babbittry that was in bloom then: from tabloid newspaper attacks on the French as ''weasels'' to the inane rechristening of French fries as ''freedom fries.''
 That febrile hostility has faded, expats said, though they find that it can still flare in Middle America. A man who has lived in this country for 23 years, and who chose not to give his name, said he was in a restaurant in Jacksonville, Fla., that carried no French wines. He asked why not. ''Because I could lose customers'' was the response, he said.
 But that is not the New York experience. And as the war loses popularity among Americans, some said, Mr. Chirac's opposition from the get-go looks ever more sensible. ''It was very brave, when you think about it,'' said Pascale Richard, editor in chief of France-Amerique, a journal published here.
 The war notwithstanding, Ms. Richard said, ''the bonds are really very strong'' between the two countries. Much the same was said by Marie-Monique Steckel, Fiaf's president. She likened the relationship to that of a married couple who may ''squabble at the breakfast table'' but ''by dinner we're all together.''
 She just wished that New Yorkers would show a greater appreciation of modern French culture rather than find comfort in the old and the familiar. ''They want Edith Piaf, Maurice Chevalier,'' and show scant interest in contemporary artists and performers, Ms. Steckel said. ''We are beyond Edith Piaf.''
 Yet in the next breath she acknowledged that her group would soon have a screening of ''La Vie en Rose,'' a new film about the legendary Piaf.
 Plus ca change and all that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CHARITIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); SOCCER (60%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) French-Americans; Elections; United States International Relations; Politics and Government 

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (91%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (78%) Clyde Haberman; Nicholas (Pres) Sarkozy

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%) France; New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



153 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: France Under New Leadership

 BODY:
The French (like many Americans) have grown increasingly tired of their cranky and ineffective president, Jacques Chirac. With Nicolas Sarkozy they've certainly gotten a very different sort of leader. A graduate of a non-elite university, and the son of a Hungarian immigrant, he won this week's election promising sweeping change to voters impatient with their country's long economic and diplomatic decline. But to succeed, Mr. Sarkozy will need to keep his own impatience, and his destructive penchant for divisive rhetoric, under firm control. 
 Mr. Sarkozy hopes to strengthen ties with Washington while pursuing a more active role in Europe. A France that is neither reflexively anti-American nor in automatic lock step with Washington would be good for both sides of the Atlantic. To start, more active Franco-American military cooperation in Afghanistan and diplomatic coordination on Sudan could make a big difference.
Then there is the vexed issue of agricultural protection, and the vexing clout of French farmers. Mr. Sarkozy and Mr. Bush are both avowed free-traders. A joint push to lower agricultural barriers could revive international trade talks and give African countries, including those with close ties to Paris, a fairer chance at development. 
 For most voters, the compelling issues were domestic, especially the challenge of invigorating an economy weighed down by decades of slow growth, high unemployment and suburban decay. Mr. Sarkozy's call for tax cuts, smaller government, longer working hours and tougher labor policies won out over his Socialist rival's contention that she could administer the needed economic jolts while preserving the security and comfort of the social status quo. 
 Mr. Sarkozy's ability to carry out those changes will depend on how well his right-wing allies fare in next month's parliamentary election and his ability to rally a wider political coalition for what will be painful and dislocating changes. Mr. Sarkozy will especially have to overcome the distrust of young urban immigrants, whom he has demeaned with insulting stereotypes and frightened with simplistic law-and-order prescriptions. 
 If Mr. Sarkozy means what he now says about being ''president of all the French,'' he needs to recognize that there are many equally legitimate ways of being French. And that the problems of poverty and unemployment require much broader solutions than simple law and order.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); SUBURBS (50%) Editorials; Elections; Immigration and Refugees; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Election Issues

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (91%); JACQUES CHIRAC (73%) Nicolas Sarkozy

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); HUNGARY (92%); EUROPE (79%); SUDAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



154 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: More Than Just Talk

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
It was a nice moment. The sky was filled with thick, dark clouds and a monsoonlike storm was on its way, but there was the presidential candidate, John Edwards, in work boots, jeans and a navy blue shirt, talking with a handful of neighborhood people gathered outside a house that was being built in the Ninth Ward. 
 The former senator was there for a photo-op and the chat wouldn't last long. But the people, most of them young, were excited to see him. They listened thoughtfully and asked a number of questions. 
The scene was immensely more appealing than the overly scripted televised ''debates'' that feature sleep-inducing nonanswers from an army of candidates browbeaten by moderators wielding stopwatches.
 New Orleans has not been a hot topic at those upscale gatherings. Much of the city is still in ruins, still in ''terrible shape,'' as Mr. Edwards noted. During a lengthy interview that followed his talk with the local residents, he told me that what had been allowed to happen to New Orleans was ''an embarrassment for America'' and that as president he would put the power of the federal government squarely behind its revival.
 He said he would appoint a high-level official to take charge of the rebuilding, and he would have that person ''report to me'' every day. He said he would create 50,000 ''steppingstone jobs,'' in parks, recreation facilities and a variety of community projects, for New Orleans residents who have been unable to find any other work. And he said, ''We're also going to have to rebuild these levees.''
 (As if to underscore the last point, torrential rains on the same day as the interview caused dangerous flooding in the city. The levees were not an issue in this case. But the flooding occurred just as attention was being focused on serious flaws that have been found in repairs made to the levees after Hurricane Katrina.)
 Mr. Edwards, who announced his campaign for the presidency in the Ninth Ward, has stood by his commitment to make poverty one of his big campaign issues. I mentioned that poverty has not gotten much attention from the national media, and asked why middle-class Americans should care about the issue.
 ''First, you should care because it's a moral issue,'' he said. ''It tells us something about the character of our country. And, by the way, I think most people do care about it. And second, you should care because if you want to see the American economy grow and strengthen over time, the strength and breadth of the middle class is a critical factor. When we have middle-class families struggling on the edge, falling into poverty or near poverty, those things weaken the American economy.''
 It's not a good sign, said Mr. Edwards, to have so much of the middle class hanging on by its fingertips at the same time that the ranks of the poor are growing. There are about 37 million Americans living below the poverty line, five million more than when President Bush took office.
 In an essay in the recently published book ''Ending Poverty in America,'' which he co-edited, Mr. Edwards wrote: ''The real story is not the number but the people behind the number. The men, women and children living in poverty -- one in eight of us -- do not have enough money for the food, shelter, and clothing they need. One in eight. That is not a problem. That is not a challenge. That is a plague.''
 Mr. Edwards, the founder and former director of the Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said poverty has proved to be so intractable because there are so many contributing factors. It's an extremely complex problem, and there is no one solution, no silver bullet.
 As president, he said, he would push hard for a ''significant'' increase in the minimum wage, would expand the earned income tax credit, would insist on making it easier for workers to organize, and would focus a substantial portion of his administration's energy on achieving concrete improvements in education, housing and health care.
 It's true that promises from politicians come at us like weeds on steroids. But the nation would get a clearer picture of the character, integrity and leadership qualities of individual candidates if the press would focus more intently on matters of substance.
 As a rule, we're much more interested in gaffes than in the details of a candidate's position on a complex issue. We're much more interested in sound bites than in sound policy.
 That should change. We should give the candidates time to speak. And we should listen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); WEATHER (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HURRICANES (86%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); FAMILY (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%) Presidential Election of 2008; Debating; Election Issues; News and News Media; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (89%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



155 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 ALCOA MAKES BID FOR RIVAL Alcoa made an unsolicited $27 billion offer for a rival, Alcan of Canada, which would propel it to the top spot in the aluminum industry, a position it surrendered just months ago. The announcement came after unsuccessful attempts by Alcoa to negotiate a friendly merger over the last two years with Alcan. Shares of Alcan, which is based in Montreal, rose 34 percent. [Page C1.] KICKBACKS TO SADDAM HUSSEIN Chevron is preparing to acknowledge that it should have known kickbacks to Saddam Hussein were being paid on oil it bought from Iraq as part of a defunct United Nations program, according to investigators. 
[C1.] WALL ST. VS. MORTGAGE LENDERS A formerly profitable partnership between subprime lenders and Wall Street banks has now degenerated into a blame game, as one side points to the other as the source of the problems in the mortgage industry. [C1.] EX-ASSOCIATE OF BLACK TESTIFIES F. David Radler, the former business associate of the media baron Conrad M. Black, took the stand in the Mr. Black's criminal trial, and said he did not make a major move without talking with his former partner. [C3.] THE JOURNAL'S STORY Last week The Wall Street Journal was beaten on its own story -- the bid by Rupert Murdoch to purchase the Journal's parent, Dow Jones & Company. What are a news organization's obligations to report important news about itself or its parent company before the news is officially disclosed?[C1.] DEAL SOUGHT ON WOLFOWITZ EXIT Leading governments of Europe, mounting a new campaign to push Paul D. Wolfowitz out as World Bank president, signaled that they were willing to let the United States name the bank's next chief, but only if Mr. Wolfowitz stepped down soon, European officials said. [A1.] ABN AMRO REJECTS A BID FOR BANK ABN Amro rejected a $24.5 billion bid from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group and two partners for its American unit, LaSalle Bank, putting the fate of the Dutch bank, which is at the center of a large and complex takeover battle, more into the hands of shareholders. [C3.] HEART STENT FAILS TRIAL Johnson & Johnson's hopes for an early return on its acquisition of Conor Medsystems have been dashed by the failure of Conor's heart stent design in a pivotal medical trial. [C2.] VOTE ON CLEAR CHANNEL BID Clear Channel Communications, owner of the largest network of radio stations in the nation, postponed a shareholder vote on a revised buyout offer by two private equity firms. The delay gives the offer, which was rejected by Clear Channel's board last week, a new lease on life. [C4.] GUILTY PLEA EXPECTED A former Morgan Stanley compliance officer and her husband are expected to plead guilty this week to charges stemming from an insider-trading case that prosecutors say was part of the largest such scheme on Wall Street since the 1980s. [C2.] INDIA'S STRUGGLING AIRLINES India's airline industry, which has grown at breakneck speed, continues to lose money as some airlines are buying more planes -- including a handful of double-decker Airbus 380s. [C8.] EADS HOPEFUL OF PENTAGON WORK The co-chief of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company said he wanted to expand his company's military activities in the United States, and friendly governments in both France and Germany could help further that goal, the company's co-chief executive said. ''The generation has changed,'' said the co-chief executive, Louis Gallois, above. ''It could bring in some fresh air.'' [C8.] ICAHN FAILS IN BID FOR SEAT The billionaire financier Carl Icahn, who came to Motorola's shareholders meeting seeking to be elected to the board, failed to get enough votes, the company said. [C1.] JAVA FOR MOBILE DEVICES Sun Microsystems plans to revamp its Java software in an effort to compete more effectively in the fast-growing market for Internet-connected mobile phones. [C2.] MINORS AND ALCOHOL ADS Beam Global Spirits & Wine, the maker of Jim Beam and Makers Mark bourbon, said it would adopt stricter rules to keep messages away from young people. But some said the promise would have little impact, because Beam Global makes few products that appeal to minors. Advertising. [C3.] DOING GOOD ON COMPANY TIME More companies are spending part of their off-site meetings and retreats in hands-on volunteer projects to get their people motivated and working as a team. [C6.] A POSSIBLE MERGER LIFTS STOCKS The Dow Jones industrial average passed 13,300, and large stocks closed mostly higher, buoyed by Alcoa's bid for Alcan. [C9.] DEMOCRATS AND TRADE POLICY Democrats in Washington are trying to heal a painful and historic rift among themselves between those who see a globalized economy as inevitable and good, and those who see the cost of those policies, in lost jobs and unsettled lives, as simply too great. [A1.] HOTEL GROWTH MAY AFFECT RATES The hotel industry is planning significant growth over the next couple of years, but some analysts are not so sure there will be demand for so many extra rooms. And the price travelers pay for those rooms will depend on who is right. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph: ''Alcan Canadian dollars per share'' Last Monday: 65.35 Yesterday: 90.57 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (87%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (86%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MERGERS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (72%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (92%); ALCOA INC (90%); DOW JONES & CO INC (67%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (64%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (90%); AA (NYSE) (90%); RBS (NYSE) (64%); RBS (LSE) (64%); RBS (AMS) (64%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); ABO (ASX) (56%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (92%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (67%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (67%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (63%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (70%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%) QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



156 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Obama Scolds and Soothes Automakers

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 7 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama of Illinois delivered a stern message to Detroit auto companies on Monday, saying they had done little to lessen the nation's dependence on foreign oil and needed to improve the fuel efficiency of their vehicles.
 Sounding at times like a teacher scolding a lazy but promising student, Mr. Obama at the same time proposed incentives to help General Motors, Ford and Chrysler out of a lingering slump that has resulted in dozens of plant closings and the elimination of tens of thousands of jobs this decade. 
Appearing before a luncheon held by the Detroit Economic Club, Mr. Obama, a Democratic presidential candidate, received a standing ovation when he was introduced by Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, and again at the close of his remarks, which were broadcast live by local television stations.
 Mr. Obama, making his first campaign visit to Michigan, said he wanted to be blunt with Detroit auto companies on their home turf. 
 Chief executives of the auto companies were not in attendance.
 ''I'm making this proposal here today because I don't believe in making proposals in California and giving a different speech in Michigan,'' he said. His goal ''is not to destroy the industry, but to help bring it into the 21st century,'' he said.
 Under Mr. Obama's plan, which he said would save 2.5 million barrels of oil a day, he proposed a 4 percent a year increase in fuel economy standards beginning in 2009, or the equivalent of about one mile per gallon per year. 
 By 2022, the fuel economy standard for both cars and light trucks would be 40 miles per gallon, according to the plan. The Bush administration has proposed a similar method to raise the fuel economy standard over the next few years. 
 The current federal standards are 27.5 miles per gallon for cars and 24 miles per gallon for light trucks.
 While the American standard for cars has not increased in the last 20 years, both China and Japan have higher standards, Mr. Obama said. He maintained that cars in Japan typically achieved the equivalent of 45 miles per gallon.
 In fact, the average fuel economy in 2006 for cars sold by all manufacturers in the United States was slightly more than 30 miles per gallon, higher than the federal standard requires. But automakers' overall fuel economy was 24.2 miles per gallon, because light trucks, including S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans, account for slightly more than half the vehicles sold in the United States.
 The discussion over the standards accelerated last month, when the Supreme Court ruled that the Environmental Protection Agency had the ability to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. The primary way to do so, experts say, is by raising fuel efficiency.
 Mr. Obama also proposed that fuel efficiency standards for cars be rewritten so that mileage requirements are set according to vehicle size, rather than one sweeping standard for all sizes of cars. 
 The current method benefits Japanese auto companies, whose lineups are not as varied as their Detroit rivals, said Mr. Obama, whose state is home to a Ford assembly plant, as well as one owned by the Japanese automaker Mitsubishi.
 The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration took a similar step this decade in recalculating the fuel economy standard for light trucks. Detroit auto companies have backed that as an option for recalculating fuel economy standards for cars.
 As a carrot to the industry, Mr. Obama would provide up to $3 billion to Detroit auto companies and their suppliers to retool factories to produce more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 If the companies invest in these vehicles, Mr. Obama also would offer the Detroit companies assistance in dealing with their burden of paying for current and retired workers' health care expenses, estimated at $1,500 per vehicle.
 But a spokesman for G.M., Greg Martin, said the automaker preferred to see a broader approach to soaring health care costs. ''Health care is an issue that should be a national priority and not an issue unique to G.M.,'' Mr. Martin said.
 Despite Mr. Obama's sometimes harsh words Monday, the diverse audience interrupted him 10 times for applause. ''I think it took a lot of courage to come to Detroit and lay it on the line,'' said Peter Eckstein, a retired labor union economist from Ann Arbor, Mich.
 Leonard Mungo, a Detroit lawyer, said he was surprised to hear specific proposals for addressing the industry's problems. ''He's saying, 'You got yourselves into this mess, but now this is how we get out,' '' Mr. Mungo said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Barack Obama said yesterday in Detroit that he wanted to address automakers on their turf with his criticism and his proposals. (Photo by Carlos Osorio/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); CLOSINGS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) Automobiles; Election Issues; Fuel Efficiency; Presidential Election of 2008; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Barack (Sen) Obama; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007



157 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: In Quiet Bit of Florida, a Bid to Bring In the Crowds

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: PANAMA CITY, Fla. 

 BODY:
This corner of the Florida Panhandle already has an airport, but it is sleepy, with a runway too short for the heavy jets that bring well-heeled crowds. Tourists come for the quartz-sand beaches, but most make the trip by car from Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee.
 Now, though, a supersized $330 million airport is planned for the piney wilderness about 20 miles from downtown Panama City, big enough to handle international flights, Air Force One and even the giant Airbus A380. It will have more acreage than La Guardia in New York and Newark Liberty International combined. 
Backers say the airport could transform the so-called Redneck Riviera into an international tourist destination like Orlando or Miami, drawing more visitors and part-time residents to fill a glut of new hotel rooms and condominiums. Critics see that as a fantasy.
 ''It's pretty hard to imagine any demand for direct flights from Bay County to, say, London or Paris,'' said Melanie Shepherdson, a staff lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has sued to stop the airport project on environmental grounds. ''It's kind of a joke when you think about it.''
 But the airport has a supporter that carries extraordinary weight in the region, the St. Joe Company, the largest private landowner in Florida. The company, a onetime paper producer that has switched to developing resort communities, wants to donate 4,000 of its 774,000 mostly rural acres for the project. In return, St. Joe hopes the airport will help lure wealthy homebuyers to the Panhandle, which it is marketing as ''Florida's Great Northwest.'' 
 The airport is at the center of a growing debate over whether to keep the Panhandle relatively quiet or to seek the kind of development that has made other parts of Florida vibrant, if teeming, hubs of sprawl. Opponents of the airport plan call it corporate welfare, with taxpayers getting the bill for a project that would mostly help a single developer.
 But others predict broader economic benefits. 
 ''As soon as the shovel hits the dirt, there's going to be a lot more faith in the evolution of this area,'' said Marta Rose, a senior vice president at the Panama City Beach Chamber of Commerce. ''We'll be accessible to the whole world -- finally.''
 The county is depending on the state and federal government to provide about $100 million each. It will cover the rest itself by selling the current airport and issuing revenue bonds. It hopes to break ground by June but is still waiting for a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers to fill wetlands on the site. 
 Even with the permit, delay is likely. When the Federal Aviation Administration approved the relocation last fall, the Natural Resources Defense Council and other groups sued. They said the aviation agency had violated a law against approving projects that would have ''significant adverse effects'' on natural resources if there are alternatives.
 Given that the current airport is operating at only half its capacity -- with 12 outbound flights a day -- the plaintiffs say it makes no sense to build a sprawling replacement. They have suggested expanding the current airport, but Bay County officials say that is impossible.
 Linda Young, director of the Clean Water Network of Florida, said the officials were cowed by St. Joe. ''It offends me as a taxpayer to waste that kind of money on corporate welfare,'' Ms. Young said.
 St. Joe owns most of the land surrounding the proposed airport site, and plans to build 5,800 homes and 4.3 million square feet of commercial space in the West Bay sector, a 78,000-acre area that includes the airport. It has also promised about 40,000 acres for preservation, and, as a result, some environmental groups, including Audubon of Florida, are supporting the project.
 Asked about the dispute over the project, Jerry Ray, a St. Joe spokesman, said only, ''St. Joe carefully aligned its interests with the interests of the local community, including local environmentalists.''
 It seemed a gift to the plaintiffs when, shortly before they sued, a professor at Auburn University said he had spotted ivory-billed woodpeckers, a magnificent bird long given up for extinct until reports of sightings in Arkansas in 2005, while kayaking on the Choctawhatchee River, perhaps 20 miles from the new airport site. The aviation agency conducted a biological assessment with the Fish and Wildlife Service. But its conclusion was not what the environmentalists had hoped.
 ''At this time we don't feel there's a potential for adverse impact,'' said Jackie Sweatt-Essick, an environmental protection program manager for the aviation agency, adding that the airport land was not suitable habitat for ivory-billed woodpeckers and that their presence had not been confirmed, anyway.
 Ms. Shepherdson said that ''even without the bird,'' the new airport was a boondoggle that would threaten other rare species, destroy wetlands and send polluted runoff into West Bay. She pointed to a nonbinding referendum in 2004 in which 54 percent of Bay County voters opposed a new airport.
 St. Joe's sales have lagged during the real estate downturn; its earnings were down nearly 60 percent last year, and many of the homes and lots in its Panhandle developments are up for resale. Panama City Beach, too, has a glut of condos, but the area was one of only two in Florida where sales rose in March, compared with a year earlier.
 Ms. Rose said that with the airport seeming likely to become a reality, officials are planning national and international marketing campaigns.
 ''We are going to begin attacking new markets just as quickly as we know that we have an airport,'' said Bob Warren, president of the Panama City Beach Convention and Visitors Bureau. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Runways at the current airport in Panama City, Fla., above, are too short to accommodate heavy jets that would bring tourists. Now, a larger airport is planned for a wilderness area just outside the city, right.
 Karen Griffith of Boston in the baggage claim area of the Panama City-Bay County International Airport. (Photographs by Phil Sears for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); BEACHES (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); AIR SERVICE (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (73%); BONDS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); LITIGATION (72%); WETLANDS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); ENGINEERING (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); APPROVALS (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Land Use Policies; Rural Areas; Geographic Profiles; Suits and Litigation; Airlines and Airplanes; Wetlands; Travel and Vacations; Housing

COMPANY: ST JOE CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%) St Joe Company; Natural Resources Defense Council

TICKER: JOE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (84%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%)

PERSON: Abby Goodnough

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (79%) Florida; Panama City (Fla); Bay County (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



158 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: Clean Power That Reaps a Whirlwind

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HOUXINQIU, China 

 BODY:
The wind turbines rising 180 feet above this dusty village at the hilly edge of Inner Mongolia could be an environmentalist's dream: their electricity is clean, sparing the horizon sooty clouds or global warming gases. 
 But the wind-power generators are also part of a growing dispute over a United Nations program that is the centerpiece of international efforts to help developing countries combat global warming.
That program, the Clean Development Mechanism, has become a kind of Robin Hood, raising billions of dollars from rich countries and transferring them to poor countries to curb the emission of global warming gases. The biggest beneficiary is no longer so poor: China, with $1.2 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, received three-fifths of the money last year.
 Scientists increasingly worry about the emissions from developing countries, which may contribute to global environmental problems even sooner than previously expected. China is expected to pass the United States this year or next to become the world's largest emitter of global warming gases. And as a result, some of the poorest countries are being left out. 
 That draws attention to the Clean Development Mechanism, which has grown at an extraordinary pace, to $4.8 billion in transfer payments to developing countries last year from less than $100 million in 2002.
 The Clean Development Mechanism raises its money through a complex market in trading pollution credits: businesses and governments in affluent regions like Europe and Japan help pay to reduce pollution in poorer countries, offsetting their own emissions. This helps advanced industrial nations stay within their Kyoto Protocol limits for emitting climate-changing gases like carbon dioxide.
 For each ton of global warming gases that a developing country can prove it has eliminated, the secretariat of the Clean Development Mechanism, in Bonn, Germany, awards it a credit. Developing countries sold credits last year to richer nations for an average price of $10.70 each.
 Its growth has come almost entirely by focusing on efficient projects in China and other fast-growing countries that spread the administrative costs over many large efforts, while poorer lands have received almost nothing. And that is why the program is becoming a battleground, pitting an unlikely coalition of bankers, traders, industrialists and environmentalists, who defend it, against economic development advocates, who warn of distortions.
 According to the World Bank, China captured $3 billion of the $4.8 billion in subsidies last year for dozens of projects. Yet it accounted for less than two-fifths of the developing world's fossil fuel consumption, the main source of warming gases.
 One of the projects is the wind farm here, nestled on a pine-forested hill beside a blue lake fringed by broad fields tilled into long furrows of freshly planted wheat. It is profitable even without the subsidies, and is owned by a group of Chinese companies traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. 
 But it is China's financial sophistication that has helped it soak up so much in subsidies. A vigorous cottage industry of project designers and brokers has sprung up in Shanghai -- with workers translating forms into Chinese, promoting the program and taking steps to make it easy and inexpensive for Chinese companies to participate.
 ''There are a lot of people who know how to do it,'' said Tao Fuchang, the general manager and chief engineer of the Liaoning Zhangwu Jinshan Wind Power Electricity Company, which built and operates the turbines here.
 Next in line are India, Brazil, Mexico and Argentina, which get most of the rest of the subsidies, along with South Korea -- incongruously classified as a developing nation by the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 pact to limit emissions that also led to the creation of the Clean Development Mechanism.
 Trailing far behind are African countries. Payments totaled less than $150 million last year for all of Africa, where government officials say they have been largely left out of one of the biggest bonanzas for the developing world in many years. 
 ''We see this problem everywhere in Africa,'' said Sateeaved Seebaluck, a high-ranking environment official in Mauritius, an island nation east of Africa.
 Even when very poor countries are able to organize development projects, they may lack expertise and must sometimes pay out as much as half the credits in the form of fees for international consultants and credit brokers.
 United Nations executives respond, with considerable support from environmentalists, bankers and corporations, that the program's primary task is to reduce the tonnage of carbon dioxide and other warming gases entering the atmosphere -- regardless of where it comes from. By that measure, they say, the program is a success.
 Kai-Uwe Schmidt, the Clean Development Mechanism's executive board secretary, said the organization was acutely aware of regional imbalances in global warming projects and hoped to address them. But setting up an emissions reduction project usually requires considerable investment.
 ''We do not see many investments flowing into Africa in the first place,'' he said.
 Subsidies are readily available for a wide range of projects -- straw-fired power plants, wind turbines, even the capture and burning of methane leaking from landfills. Though detailed procedures have been developed for projects in China and other fast-growing countries, they can easily be copied for use in other places.
 But before manufacturers can obtain the subsidies, their national governments need to set up a legal framework for handling the money, which some of the poorest countries have not yet been able to do.
 The projects that have produced the greatest number of credits so far involve attaching waste-gas incinerators to chemical factories that manufacture an ozone-destroying air-conditioner refrigerant, HCFC-22; these factories are found almost exclusively in the more prosperous developing countries.
 Kristalina Georgieva, director of sustainable development strategy and operations at the World Bank, said the Clean Development Mechanism's secretariat could simplify its rules to help poorer nations.
 Ms. Georgieva said the secretariat should also pay more attention to fostering renewable energy in very poor lands, because 1.6 billion people lack any electricity and it is crucial to choose power-generating technologies for them that will contribute as little as possible to global warming.
 ''How the developing countries choose to electrify will determine the fate of the earth,'' she said in a recent speech.
 Some say the verification process is too burdensome for the poorest countries. But too much streamlining of the process could undermine the confidence of investors in rich countries that the pollution credits are genuine, Ms. Georgieva acknowledged in an interview. ''What you may get is eroding trust in the system,'' she said.
 David Doniger, an environmental official in the Clinton administration who took part in many Kyoto Protocol drafting meetings in 1997 that led to the creation of the Clean Development Mechanism, said questions had been raised then about whether very poor countries would be able to obtain credits.
 But the negotiators decided against any system for guaranteeing a division of credits by region, preferring one focused on reducing emissions wherever they occurred.
 ''Those were rejected on the grounds that you wanted to get more bang for the buck and they didn't want this to turn into another U.N. institution with a lot of emphasis on regional balance,'' said Mr. Doniger, who is now climate policy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
 The wind turbine project here in Houxinqiu, an impoverished area of China, shows the pluses and minuses of the current system. It generates nearly 24 megawatts of electricity that would otherwise come from coal. China is already building enough coal-fired power plants each year to light all of Britain.
 Farmers here still use mules to pull their steel-tip wooden plows and draw their aging wooden carts, the rough-hewn slats bleached white by years of sun and rain. The setting sun vanishes into a dark murk over the plains to the west, where China has been rapidly building coal-fired power plants.
 Li Guohai, a local peasant riding his mule cart home with his wife on a recent evening, explained how he had received free electricity since the wind turbines were erected four years ago. He has saved enough money that he bought an all-steel plow for his mules to pull; the new plow now frees his son to finish junior high school and perhaps go to high school, Mr. Li said.
 The project is narrowly profitable even without Clean Development Mechanism payments, Mr. Tao, the general manager, said. But the payments made the project more attractive and made it easier to raise money for it.
 While Mr. Tao was reluctant to discuss the company's finances, Clean Development Mechanism records show that the wind farm saves the equivalent of 35,119 tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year. At $8 a credit, that is worth $281,000. Mr. Tao does not rely on that money to make the project viable, as the C.D.M. subsidies aim to do, but it helps him pay for more turbines. 
 ''Without the Clean Development Mechanism, we'd still be profitable,'' Mr. Tao said. But ''you need the C.D.M. for further expansion.'' The Energy Challenge 
 Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Li Guohai, a peasant near Houxinqiu, has had free electricity since the wind turbines were erected and has freed up money for a steel plow. (Photo by Ariana Lindquist for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 A farm family prepared its fields near a wind farm on the fringes of Inner Mongolia. Chinese financial skill has helped make the project profitable. (Photo by Ariana Lindquist for The New York Times)(pg. C5) Chart: ''Selling Carbon Credits'' Some large countries that still qualify as developing nations are claiming the bulk of the United Nations-issued credits for reducing emissions of global warming gases. SHARE OF U.N. CARBON EMISSIONS CREDITS SOLD IN 2006* TOTAL VALUE OF CREDITS SOLD -- $4.8 billion 61% -- China 12 -- India 7 -- Other Asia 4 -- Brazil 6 -- Other Latin America 3 -- Africa 7 -- OTHER *A total of 450 million credits were sold in 2006 at an average of $10.70 each, representing emissions reductions equivalent to 450 million metric tons of carbon dioxide. (Source by World Bank) Map of China shows the location of Houxinqiu: Wind turbines above Houxinqiu are part of a dispute on subsidies. (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (93%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); WHEAT FARMING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (69%) Weather; Global Warming; Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Weather

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



159 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: After Years in Wait, a Lab Is Born

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
Five years after a similar project was announced but never built, ground has finally been broken on a $145 million biomedical laboratory for research on cancer and other diseases at Landmark at Eastview, an office park straddling the towns of Greenburgh and Mount Pleasant in Westchester County, N.Y. 
 Redevelopment of the site as a biotechnology center was originally proposed by LCOR Inc., a real estate firm in Berwyn, Pa., but the firm shelved the project three years ago. LCOR sold 117 acres of its holdings to BioMed Realty Trust, a two-year-old publicly held real estate investment trust based in San Diego that specializes in such construction. LCOR is planning to build houses on some of the land it kept. 
Now BioMed is constructing three interconnected buildings on a 66-acre section in Greenburgh. The new buildings are adjacent to existing structures occupied by 18 tenants, most of them biotech concerns. Part of this acreage was the longtime home of the Union Carbide Corporation, which left in the 1980s.
 More than half of the 360,000-square-foot space under construction has already been leased by Regeneron, a biopharmaceutical company that has several drugs in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer, eye diseases and inflammatory conditions. Regeneron, which employs more than 450 people at its headquarters at the Landmark at Eastview, said it had been weighing a move to New Jersey.
 Last year, though, the company decided to remain after receiving a $4 million grant from Empire State Development, a state agency that provides assistance to businesses to encourage economic investment, as well as $3.5 million in property tax abatements and $1.5 million in sales tax abatements from the Westchester County Industrial Development Agency, said Leonard S. Schleifer, Regeneron's president and chief executive. 
 The original LCOR proposal was not the only biomedical project in Westchester that failed to make it beyond the drawing boards. A county plan to build up to one million square feet of lab and incubator space on a 60-acre site in Valhalla in 2002 failed to materialize, despite proposals from five developers. And New York-Presbyterian Hospital scuttled its plans to build a $265 million biomedical research center at its White Plains campus because of financing problems.
 Creating a biomedical cluster is a high-risk endeavor that requires considerable financing and a critical mass of companies and potential employees, said Alan D. Gold, the president and chief executive of BioMed Realty Trust. The REIT owns or has interests in 66 properties representing 8.4 million square feet.
 Even today, the county has less than one million square feet of biomedical lab space, and New York State over all continues to have a relatively small biomedical presence.
 The Greater New York area (which includes Manhattan, Brooklyn, sections of Long Island and Parsippany, N.J., as well as Westchester) has less than five million square feet, according to Mr. Gold. By comparison, San Francisco has more than 25 million square feet of biomedical research space, and Boston has more than 20 million square feet.
 Especially in the years after the end of the dot-com boom, venture capital money for biomedical research was in short supply. ''The industry went through a downturn, funding dried up, and it wasn't until the end of 2003 and early 2004 that there was access to capital again,'' Mr. Gold said. 
 That was true also for Regeneron. But Mr. Schleifer said that his company now has three products in late clinical trials and that there is more investment money available. ''We're finally in a position to expand into more sophisticated space,'' he said.
 Clusters of biotech companies and personnel typically develop in cities that are near academic and research institutions, which in turn produce researchers and attract venture capital. Areas with such clusters include San Diego, Seattle, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. 
 The New York-New Jersey biotech market is driven by research institutions like Princeton, Columbia, New York and Rutgers Universities; the Sloan-Kettering Institute, which focuses on cancer research; and by companies like Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Wyeth and Pfizer.
 Besides Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, the region's roster of publicly traded biotechnology companies includes the Celgene Corporation in Summit, N.J.; Immunomedics Inc. in Morris Plains, N.J.; and Progenics Pharmaceuticals, which is also based at the Landmark at Eastview.
 One factor behind New York's relatively slow development as a biotech cluster is the tight supply and high cost of land in the area, compounding the already high costs of building new biomedical space.
 Rick Kobus, a senior principal in the architectural firm of Tsoi/Kobus & Associates of Cambridge, Mass., which designed the Center for Life Science in Boston, said the cost to build lab space runs about twice that for office space.
 Distances between floors in labs, he said, are generally at least 15 feet, in order to accommodate specialized pipes and wiring; by comparison, floors in office buildings are usually about 13 feet apart, or even less. Additionally, floors in laboratories have a minimum load capacity of 100 pounds per square foot, compared with 70 pounds to 80 pounds per square foot in office structures.
 ''Not only do the floors in labs need to carry heavier equipment, but they have to be stiffer,'' Mr. Kobus said. ''We can't have any floor vibrations.'' In addition, in office buildings air is usually recycled, whereas it is not reused in labs.
 Construction of the core and shell of the new development at the Landmark at Eastview is expected to be complete by the summer of 2008, with Regeneron's office and laboratory space ready for occupancy by early 2009.
 ''Like the rest of the biotechnology industry in New York, we've grown from a little start-up,'' Mr. Schleifer said. ''There has been a confluence of factors affecting our work, and we hope that now Westchester will attract other biotechnology companies. We do tend to cluster, like lamp stores do on the Bowery.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a new lab for biomedical research at Landmark at Eastview in Westchester County, N.Y. (Photo by Tsoi/Kobus & Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ONCOLOGY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); CANCER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); TAX LAW (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); CLINICAL TRIALS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); SALES TAX (63%) Medicine and Health; Laboratories and Scientific Equipment; Research

COMPANY: LCOR INC (72%); UNION CARBIDE CORP (69%); BIOMED REALTY TRUST INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BioMed Realty Trust; LCOR Inc

TICKER: BMR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (72%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Greenburgh (NY); Mount Pleasant (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



160 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Glimmers of a Turnaround in Springfield, Mass.

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 

 BODY:
Late last century, this once-thriving New England city, like many of its neighbors, fell victim to a causal chain of events -- mills closed, jobs disappeared, crime rose and residents left.
 While cities like Providence, R.I., and New Haven were revitalizing themselves, Springfield languished, with rampant mismanagement and corruption dealing further blows. By 2004, with the city facing bankruptcy proceedings, the state stepped in, appointing an outside finance board to help get Springfield's books in order.
But now residents, developers, brokers, financial analysts and urban planners say that the city's long decline may finally be starting to turn around. 
 In the fiscal year that ended in June 2005, for the first time since the early 1990s, the city's budget ($470 million) was balanced and even yielded a surplus ($6.8 million). And now Springfield's tax base is set to expand, led by major commercial development, with most of it financed privately. 
 ''Four years ago, this city had zero money,'' said Mayor Charles V. Ryan, 79, a Democrat who led Springfield in the 1960s before being elected again in 2003 and 2005. ''Now we've got money in the bank, and we're rebuilding infrastructure that's sorely needed.''
 Although violent crime continues to be a problem, and soothsayers have predicted Springfield's rebound before, there's a sense that this time is different -- at least, that was largely the conclusion of a 48-page report released in January by the Urban Land Institute, a consulting group hired to study Springfield's problems. 
 Springfield -- population 150,000 -- ''has an opportunity to overcome past troubles and realize its potential as the region's urban and cultural center,'' the report reads.
 Barry Elbasani, an architect based in Berkeley, Calif., who specializes in rebuilding downtowns and who contributed to the Urban Land report on a unpaid basis, said: ''It's definitely turning a corner. They proved to the state that they can get out of a bad situation.''
 Mr. Elbasani acknowledged that for the comeback to be full-fledged, many existing homes needed to be renovated and new housing needed to be built. Springfield has ''a long ways to go,'' he said, and will need more state help to get there.
 Perhaps the most high-profile new project is set for the former home of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame -- named for James Naismith, a local physical education teacher who invented basketball in Springfield in 1891.
 Squeezed between the Connecticut River and Interstate 91, and recognizable by the two-dozen brightly colored panels across its facade, the three-story 45,000-square-foot building, completed in 1985, has sat empty since 2002, when a new Hall of Fame, twice the size, opened next door.
 Now, in a $14 million project that will add a 25,000-square-foot wing, the building is to become River's Landing, an entertainment and medical complex. Groundbreaking is set for May 14. 
 The largest tenant of the property, which is being sublet from the Hall of Fame, will be LA Fitness, the national health club chain, which will occupy a 60,000-square-foot space that will cost $3 million to renovate, said Peter Pappas, the president of the Alliance Group, which is half of the development team.
 Mr. Pappas would not disclose the rental terms, but average retail rates in the new Hall of Fame, which holds shops and restaurants, are $15 to $20 a square foot, said Thomas King, a partner with King & Newton, a local commercial brokerage firm.
 The other developer of River's Landing is Michael Spagnoli, a childhood friend of Mr. Pappas and president of Trillium Sports Medicine and Chiropractic, a California chain. Mr. Spagnoli's company, which offers physical therapy and laser surgery, will take 3,000 square feet. 
 The remaining 7,000 square feet will go to Hollywood Barn, a multilevel restaurant modeled after a nightclub once owned by Mr. Pappas's parents in Chicopee, a nearby town.
 Though Mr. Pappas has built subdivisions across western Massachusetts, this will be his first investment in Springfield, where his grandparents immigrated in 1911. 
 ''Perception is sometimes worse than reality, and the perception could not have been worse for our city,'' he said. ''Perception is also hard to overcome.''
 Rising on Roosevelt Avenue, on the city's East Side, is the new local home of the Performance Food Group, a company based in Richmond, Va., that provides frozen meals for schools and hospitals. 
 The new $30 million 236,000-square-foot building, which will include truck bays and offices, is almost double the size of Performance Food's current operation on Taylor Street. The new building, on 32.5 acres, is to open in October. The old one, which is 142,000 square feet, is for sale for $7 million.
 Performance Food had considered relocating to Worcester, Mass., but Massachusetts offered tax-increment financing if it would stay, reducing the company's property tax burden for the first few years in its new home. 
 In return, Performance Food has promised to create 240 new jobs by October 2013, when a 175,000-square-foot addition to the new plant is planned, according to Sean Griffin, the president of the Springfield operation. The company now has 300 full-time employees in Springfield, he said.
 ''I believe in this city, or I certainly would not have recommended that the corporation invest millions of dollars in this facility,'' Mr. Griffin said.
 One of Springfield's largest employers, Baystate Medical Center, also recently recommitted to the city. In March, it submitted plans to the state for a $259 million 600,000-square-foot building on a 3.7-acre parcel next to its current Springfield Street complex.
 The new building, with operating and imaging rooms that will increase the hospital's current inpatient-care facilities by 50 percent, will be completed by 2012, said Steven Bradley, Baystate's vice president for government and community relations.
 The expansion is also expected to add 550 permanent jobs to the 4,200 current full-time positions -- though in recent years, Mr. Bradley said, Baystate might have had a harder time filling those jobs, or even attracting patients, because of a widely shared perception that Springfield was dangerous. That was one reason the hospital had postponed its expansion plan, he said.
 ''This is a make-or-break time in the history of Springfield,'' Mr. Bradley said, ''to restore it to what it was for most of its history -- and we are well on our way to doing that.'' 
 Although housing developers have so far mostly been absent from Springfield's revival effort, some forthcoming projects might change that. One involves the former York Street Jail, a slate-roof high-visibility building near Interstate 91 and the Connecticut River that the city plans to demolish this year, at a cost of $1.8 million.
 David Panagore, who was named Springfield's chief development officer in March 2006, said that a mixed-use development might occupy the resulting 3.5-acre lot, although no plans are in the works yet. ''The river is a jewel that we don't want to turn our back on,'' Mr. Panagore said.
 The city is also encouraging apartments for 31 Elm Street, a long-vacant five-story building with Romanesque stonework and verdigris bay windows that used to be the Court Square Hotel. Development proposals are due by the end of the year, Mr. Panagore said.
 ''Our priority right now is to get bodies on the street,'' he said.
 Crime, though, remains a concern. The crime rate has dropped in many categories, Police Commissioner Edward A. Flynn said, but gang violence continues to be a problem. 
 Springfield had seven homicides in the first quarter of 2007, compared with one in the quarter last year. But Mr. Flynn said that in the period, aggravated assault was down 24 percent, handgun crime declined 52 percent and robberies decreased 17 percent.
 ''Crime needs to come down, fear needs to come down, and for-sale signs need to come down,'' Mr. Flynn said. ''We are making progress.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The former home of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, top, in Springfield, Mass., is set to become an entertainment and medical complex. Performance Food Group has started to build a new plant, below, on Springfield's East Side. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRENDS (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BASKETBALL (69%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (62%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: NAISMITH MEMORIAL BASKETBALL HALL OF FAME (59%)

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (94%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%) Springfield (Mass) 

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



161 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Africa: Angola: U.S. Advised To Strengthen Ties To Stabilize Oil Supply

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
A report sponsored by the Council on Foreign Relations, the nongovernmental, nonpartisan organization with headquarters in New York, said the United States should devote significant resources and diplomatic effort to developing ties with Angola, the second largest oil producer in sub-Saharan Africa after Nigeria, and strategically important for ensuring a steady supply of oil and the stability in the oil-rich Gulf of Guinea region. It noted that Angola had one of the world's fastest-growing economies but remained one of the world's least-developed countries. ''Cronyism and the labyrinthine bureaucracy that businesses must navigate to turn a profit frighten away all but the most courageous investors,'' the report said. CELIA W. DUGGER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%) Council on Foreign Relations

PERSON: Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) ANGOLA (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%) Africa; Nigeria; Gulf of Guinea; Angola

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



162 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Closes Flat After Early Losses

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street battled back from sharp losses yesterday to close mostly flat as investors sought buying opportunities and adjusted their holdings ahead of the Federal Reserve's meeting today on interest rates.
 Data released yesterday showed the economy continued to sputter. The Commerce Department reported that wholesalers' inventories grew at a slower rate in March, failing to meet projections. The National Association of Realtors lowered its forecast for the housing market this year because of stricter lending standards and subprime woes.
The latest data did little to change expectations that policy makers will leave rates unchanged. 
 ''There's this wait-and-see pullback with regard to what the Fed might do on Wednesday,'' said Janna Sampson, a portfolio manager for OakBrook Investments. ''Given the run we've had, and a pretty strong start of the year, this might be a case of investors positioning their portfolios a little sooner than usual before the summer doldrums.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 3.90, to 13,309.07. The blue chip average had been up 24 of the last 27 sessions, and surpassed the 13,300 mark for the first time on Monday.
 Broader stock indicators were narrowly mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 1.76, at 1,507.72, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 0.80, to 2,571.75. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was down 0.97, at 830.90.
 Oil prices advanced amid fears of supply disruptions after three major oil pipelines were bombed by militants in Nigeria. A barrel of light crude rose 79 cents, to $62.26, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Exxon Mobil rose 55 cents, to $81.38. Chevron picked up 47 cents, to $80.05, while ConocoPhillips fell 9 cents, to $70.25.
 Though most analysts expected stocks to advance, there were rising expectations on Wall Street that a correction would be needed to sustain the bull run. Before yesterday's breather, the S.& P. 500 was moving toward its record high of 1,527.46, reached on March 24, 2000, at the height of the dot-com boom.
 ''If we keep marching up without a break, we will set ourselves up for another sell-off,'' said Alan Brown, head of investment for Schroder Investment Management. ''But the fundamentals still look pretty encouraging to me, provided of course that the U.S. slowdown does not turn into something much worse.''
 Investors were cautious ahead of the Fed meeting for several reasons, including speculation that policy makers would not give any clear hints about rate increases.
 In corporate news, Hewlett Packard lifted its second-quarter forecast on strong results in its personal computer and server business. The stock rose $1.21, to $45.01.
 Dow Jones fell 51 cents, to $55, after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused two Hong Kong residents of unlawful trading. Shares of the News Corporation, which had made an offer for Dow Jones, fell 20 cents, to $23.65.
 Takeover activity continued to influence trading. AK Steel Holdings soared $2.96, to $35.02, after a report that it had attracted the interest of Arcelor Mittal, the world's largest steel maker.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32, to 9929/32. The yield was unchanged at 4.63 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and 10-year notes: (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price -- 99.110 High Yield -- 4.612 Low Yield -- 4.000 Median Yield -- 4.595 Total applied for -- $34,529,094 Accepted -- $17,586,397 Noncompetitive -- $60,752 Interest set at -- 4*% The 10-year notes mature May 15, 2017. (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price -- 99.639 High Rate -- 4.640 Coupon Yield -- 4.734 Low Rate -- 4.610 Median Rate -- 4.630 Total applied for -- $35,656,198 Accepted -- $14,335,444 Noncompetitive -- $426,819 The four-week bills mature June 07, 2007. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (64%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (64%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); NETWORK SERVERS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (82%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



163 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Clumsy Tools to Aid a Family After the Death of a Son

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
In one of the most virtuosic monologues of the theater season, Christina Kirk, the rangy grande dame of the downtown stage, encapsulates an entire marriage in a series of declarative statements and hackneyed phrases. The poetic high point of Jenny Schwartz's ''God's Ear,'' a formally inventive and superbly performed drama about how the death of a son shatters a family, this ode to love, loss and the routines of life has the economy and dry wit of a Sondheim love song. 
 It begins like a wedding vow, with Mel (Ms. Kirk) telling her husband, Ted (Gibson Frazier), that she will always laugh at his jokes and never think of leaving him. But as her promises pile up, they begin to sound as stale as advice from Polonius, a string of cliches that grows less hopeful until, by the end, it has the ominous ring of a warning.
Produced by the New Georges theater company, ''God's Ear'' portrays the disintegration of a relationship. But Ms. Schwartz seems less interested in narrative than she is in language, portraying the emotional disconnect between the couple with a vocabulary of old saws, bad jokes and small talk. The effect is to create a kind of rote, almost generic, dialogue that only occasionally reflects real feeling, which sneaks out suddenly in a malaprop or pun.
 Staged by Anne Kauffman, who brought just the right balance of clarity and mystery to Adam Bock's ''Thugs'' last year, the show moves like a dream on a blue set with a sunken center. The metaphor of the underworld is hinted at throughout the play, and characters like the dim Lenora (Annie McNamara), who flirts with Ted in a delightful scene, emerge out of trap doors, while figures of fantasy ascend to the heavens. (The Tooth Fairy makes an appearance.)
 In the wrong hands, this merging of dream and real worlds could come off as a cheap experiment, but the excellent cast anchors it in an emotional reality. Mr. Frazier is wonderful as a dazed husband who keeps meeting people with dead children, and the relentlessly creative Ms. Kirk teases the rhythms out of the sharp, muscular poetry while wearing a mask of grief that will haunt you long after the play is over. 
 ''God's Ear,'' which, like seemingly every show in New York, has a few clever Michael Friedman songs, is not for everyone, and there are moments, especially when Ms. Kirk is not speaking, when the wordplay seems indulgent. But Ms. Schwartz is a real talent and she is trying something ambitious, which deserves praise. 
 The state of American drama is always being lamented, but the situation isn't quite as bleak as it seems from the seats of Broadway and our major nonprofit theaters. Look downtown and you will find a new generation of adventurous writers like Ms. Schwartz, Anne Washburn, Will Eno, Young Jean Lee and Sheila Callaghan who aren't trying to compete with the realism of television. Instead, in their very modern way, they are making a rather old-fashioned case for the power of the written word. ''God's Ear'' continues through June 2 at the East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village; (212) 868-4444, newgeorges.org. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gibson Frazier and Christina Kirk in Jenny Schwartz's ''God's Ear.'' (Photo by Jim Baldassare) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); MARRIAGE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); MUSIC (75%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); POETRY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: New Georges (Theater Co)

PERSON: Jason Zinoman; Jenny Schwartz; Anne Kauffman; Gibson Frazier; Christina Kirk

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



164 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Queens: Ferry To Rockaways

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
New York City hopes to expand private ferry service from Manhattan to the Rockaways in Queens as a way to relieve traffic congestion and provide quicker commuting for residents in one of the most remote areas of the city, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday. The city's Economic Development Corporation will ask private ferry operators to propose service for one or more routes that would, at a minimum, run weekdays during peak commuting hours. Operators will have about six weeks to submit responses. The price for the service will depend on the proposals, but officials said they hoped it would cost about the same as express bus service, about $4 each way. RAY RIVERA 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); MAYORS (85%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (84%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%) Ferries

ORGANIZATION: Economic Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) Ray Rivera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



165 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 728 words

PERSON: Yahweh ben Yahweh 

HEADLINE: Yahweh ben Yahweh, Leader of Separatist Sect, Dies at 71

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Yahweh ben Yahweh, who, as the charismatic leader of a religious, black separatist sect in the Miami area was convicted of conspiring to murder white people as an initiation rite, died on Monday night or early yesterday in Miami. He was 71.
 The cause was cancer, his lawyer, Jayne Weintraub, said. 
Yahweh ben Yahweh, who wore a turban and flowing white robes and called himself the reincarnated Messiah, had started successful business enterprises and worked to rehabilitate neighborhoods in the Liberty City section of Miami and elsewhere. The mayor of Miami declared Oct. 7, 1990, Yahweh ben Yahweh Day.
 But the next month, Yahweh ben Yahweh and 12 followers were indicted on three counts of federal racketeering and extortion charges. The indictment charged 18 specific instances of racketeering that included 14 killings, two attempted killings, extortion and arson.
 Yahweh ben Yahweh, which in Hebrew means ''the Lord son of the Lord,'' and his followers were charged with killing former members who disagreed with the leader, in one instance by decapitation. The indictment also charged that new members were made to prove their devotion by killing a random white person, usually a vagrant. It said Yahweh ben Yahweh told members ''to kill me a white devil and bring me an ear.''
 In 1992, Yahweh ben Yahweh was convicted of conspiracy to commit murder, but not racketeering, and sentenced to 18 years in prison. He was released on parole in 2001, and this February was released from parole after his lawyer, Ms. Weintraub, asked the court to let him ''die with dignity.''
 Hulon Mitchell Jr. was born on Oct. 27, 1935, in Kingfisher, Okla., where his father was a granary worker and a Pentecostal minister. He was the first of 15 children and said he knew he was divine at age 3. All the Mitchell children sang in the church choir, and a sister, Leona Mitchell, went on to become a noted soprano who sang with the Metropolitan Opera.
 Yahweh ben Yahweh adopted and shed several religious identities over four decades, Newsday reported in 1991. He was known as Hulah Shah, Father Michel and Brother Love. He attended segregated public schools, served in the Air Force and earned a psychology degree from Phillips College in Oklahoma, then an all-black institution. Some former teachers there considered him brilliant, The New York Times reported in 1986. 
 He worked with civil rights groups in organizing sit-ins in Oklahoma, but grew disillusioned and called the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. ''that dead dog preacher.''
 According to The Times, he studied law at the University of Oklahoma, but did not get a degree. According to Newsday, he earned a master's degree in economics from Atlanta University. He went to Chicago and became involved with the Nation of Islam, then continued his religious quest in a variety of ways. He moved to Miami in 1976, where he pronounced himself Yahweh ben Yahweh.
 ''I am an incarnation of myself,'' he told Newsday. ''In terms of accomplishing what I have I'm peerless.''
 Soon the Yahwehs -- as adherents, all of whom are given the last name Israel and most of whom wear white, are known -- had a huge temple, a four-story apartment building, restaurants, stores, houses and a hotel in Miami and a hotel and restaurant in Atlanta as well as hundreds of white cars, vans, buses and 18-wheeler trucks. In 2001, The Miami Herald reported that the empire's value at its peak may have been $100 million.
 The organization, which had already been dogged by reports of child abuse, began to unravel in November 1986 when Robert Rozier, a follower of Yahweh ben Yahweh and a former professional football player, was arrested in connection with two killings. At Yahweh ben Yahweh's trial four years later, Mr. Rozier's testimony -- given as part of a deal to reduce his own sentence -- was crucial in convicting Yahweh ben Yahweh and some of those charged with him.
 During this trial, supporters of the sect in 30 cities rallied to support him. Ms. Weintraub said that one of the terms of his parole was not to communicate with any of them. After these restrictions were lifted, he was too sick, devoting his last days to reading and writing.
 Yahweh ben Yahweh is survived by three daughters, a son, at least six grandchildren and more than half of his 14 brothers and sisters, including Leona Mitchell, Ms. Weintraub said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yahweh ben Yahweh in 1986. (Photo by Joe Skipper/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MURDER (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); EXTORTION (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); PAROLE (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); SENTENCING (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); ARSON (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (62%); OPERA (61%); CANCER (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: NEWSDAY INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Religion

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



166 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Chief Supports Delay for Wolfowitz

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Jim Rutenberg and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 8 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. on Tuesday endorsed the request by Paul D. Wolfowitz, the World Bank president, for more time to defend himself against charges of misconduct, seeking a delay that could also give the Bush administration time to negotiate his voluntary resignation.
 Two days after a special bank committee found Mr. Wolfowitz guilty of violating conflict-of-interest rules in 2005, the administration sent mixed signals on how strongly it was supporting him against growing demands among United States allies in Europe that he resign. 
Officially, the White House continued to back Mr. Wolfowitz's efforts to remain as bank president, saying that he still had the confidence of President Bush to do the job.
 But the White House spokesman, Tony Snow, also deferred to the Treasury Department for guidance, saying, ''They're the ones who are fronting this.''
 Mr. Paulson, according to a spokeswoman, Brookly McLaughlin, feels Mr. Wolfowitz ''deserves a fair process rather than a rush to judgment.'' But Ms. McLaughlin's statement stopped short of saying he deserved to remain president of the bank.
 European officials, asking not to be quoted by name because of the delicacy of the matter, say they believe that Mr. Paulson is sympathetic to their concern that Mr. Wolfowitz has been so wounded by the furor over charges of favoritism that he can no longer lead the bank or work with its board of directors.
 They say that the Treasury chief has listened to proposals that Mr. Wolfowitz be allowed to resign in return for European backing for the United States to nominate his successor, but that he has not begun negotiations to advance such a deal.
 Administration officials say Mr. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and Karl Rove, the president's top political adviser are, for now, adamant that Mr. Wolfowitz not be ousted. 
 A Republican close to the White House said Mr. Rove telephoned Mr. Wolfowitz late last month to urge him to keep fighting for his job. But that Republican also said there were limits to what the White House could do.
 ''I think he's on his own,'' the Republican said, adding that there was ''very little the White House could do to help him.''
 With the Treasury Department more focused on the need for a fair process, Mr. Wolfowitz's lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, skirmished with the bank on what such a process would entail.
 Mr. Bennett demanded that Mr. Wolfowitz be given at least until next Monday to present new arguments to rebut the conclusion of a special panel of the bank board that he broke rules against favoritism by awarding a pay and promotion package in 2005 to Shaha Ali Riza, his companion.
 But there was no indication that the bank board would deviate from its current intention to receive the panel's conclusion, along with a recommendation about what to do about Mr. Wolfowitz, as early as Wednesday, and to deliberate on the matter before the end of the week.
 Mr. Bennett cited what he said were bank regulations that staff members under investigation must be given ample opportunity to comment on the findings. The amount of time for the accused, according to the rules he cited, ''will not be less than five business days,'' according to Mr. Bennett's citation.
 Mr. Paulson did not get into the specifics of how much time Mr. Wolfowitz should be allowed, but aides said that the board should put off a decision on the matter at least until next week.
 Timing has become important because of the growing concern among Europeans that the best solution is for the bank's 24-member board not to vote, which could split the United States from its European partners no matter who wins.
 Bank officials said that most members of the board appeared determined to oust Mr. Wolfowitz but that some would prefer not to do so with a divisive vote that could jeopardize future cooperation among the wealthy countries of the world on aiding the poorest countries.
 Mr. Wolfowitz may partly comply with the investigative committee's request for an early response by issuing a point-by-point rebuttal of its main conclusion. But he wants to wait until at least Monday to present a more extensive case, people close to him said.
 Part of the reason for the delay request, Mr. Bennett said, was that on Sunday evening Mr. Wolfowitz received more than 600 pages of material to rebut, including a report of more than 50 pages and additional transcripts of testimony of bank officials and documents relating to the pay, promotion and transfer of Ms. Riza. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul D. Wolfowitz wants until at least next Monday to defend himself against charges of conflict of interest as president of the World Bank. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); ETHICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%) Ethics; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Treasury Department

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Steven R Weisman; Jim Rutenberg; Sheryl Gay Stolberg; Paul D Wolfowitz; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Shaha Ali Riza; George W (Pres) Bush; Tony Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



167 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Fed Leaves Key Interest Rate Unchanged

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS; AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve left a key interest rate unchanged today as the economy signaled that it was on track for a soft landing in which growth slows enough to restrain inflation. 
 Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman, and his colleagues voted to keep the funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, at 5.25 percent. It marked the seventh straight meeting at which the Fed has kept rates steady.
The decision had been widely expected by financial markets. Many economists believe the central bank could remain on hold until late 2007 when Fed officials may start cutting rates to combat rising unemployment levels.
 The Fed's last rate change occurred nearly a year ago -- on June 29, 2006 -- when the funds rate was increased for a 17th straight time. That capped a two-year period in which the central bank pushed the funds rate up from a 46-year low of 1 percent in an effort to slow the economy enough to restrain rising inflation pressures without pushing the country into a recession.
 The latest decision, which was announced after the Fed's regular closed-door discussions, meant that the prime rate, the benchmark for millions of consumer and business loans, will remain unchanged at 8.25 percent.
 So far, the Fed's plan seems to be working to slow economic growth and lower inflation pressures. But the steep slide in the once-booming housing sector has raised concerns among some economists that the slowdown could worsen into a more severe downturn. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (Photo by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



168 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 PAYING DOCTORS TO GIVE DRUGS -- Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, two of the world's largest drug companies, are paying hundreds of millions of dollars to doctors every year in return for giving their patients anemia medicines, which regulators now say may be unsafe at commonly used doses. [Page A1.] SARKOZY'S APPROACH TO AIRBUS -- Airbus, Europe's proud but ailing plane maker, will provide a test for France's president-elect, Nicolas Sarkozy, and clarify whether he is, at heart, a free-market reformer or an economic nationalist determined to prop up France's industrial patrimony. [C1.] CHINA REAPS THE BENEFITS -- A United Nations program is supposed to help the developing world combat global warming by transferring billions of dollar from rich countries to poor countries. But the biggest beneficiary is no longer so poor: China received most of the money last year. 
[C1.] DOW JONES LEAK INQUIRY -- Federal securities regulators are expected to examine the role of a Dow Jones director in the possible leak of inside information to a Hong Kong couple accused of making millions of dollars by buying the company's shares shortly before news of Rupert Murdoch's takeover offer. [C1.] CLAIMS AGAINST GRASSO REJECTED -- A New York appeals court dismissed four of six legal claims brought against Richard A. Grasso for his pay package of $190 million over eight years as chairman of the New York Stock Exchange. [C1.] SECOND CONTAMINANT IN PET FOOD -- A second industrial chemical that American regulators have identified as a pet food contaminant may have been intentionally added to animal feed by Chinese producers seeking larger profits, according to Chinese chemical industry officials. [C3.] A CONSPIRACY TO DIVERT MILLIONS -- Conrad M. Black's longtime former business partner testified at Mr. Black's criminal fraud trial that the two men conspired to divert millions of dollars of payments for assets of the newspaper company Hollinger International. [C3.] NOW THE LAWSUITS -- Two officials of Dow Chemical, who were fired after the company accused them of conspiring in a buyout, have sued Dow Chemical for defamation, and Dow has sued them right back. [C1.] YES, IT'S A DIET PILL -- A marketing blitz with a budget estimated at more than $150 million in the first year is seeking to persuade skeptical dieters that a new over-the-counter pill can help them lose weight. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C2.] STRONG QUARTER FOR CISCO -- Cisco Systems reported a 34 percent growth in quarterly profits that it attributed to strong demand for high-speed Internet service. Cisco, the largest maker of networking equipment, said that its revenue increased 21 percent. ''Momentum remains very strong,'' said John T. Chambers, above, Cisco's chairman and chief executive. [C9.] ENVISIONING THOMSON-REUTERS -- Thomson, the Canadian electronic information company, sketched out the details of its offer for the Reuters Group, the financial and general news service. The company would challenge Bloomberg for leadership in the financial data field. [C6.] SIGNS OF A COMEBACK -- Springfield, Mass., has endured closed mills, increased crime, population declines and the threat of bankruptcy proceedings. Now there are glimmers that the city has finally turned the corner. [C7.] A FLAT DAY AWAITING THE FED -- Wall Street battled back from sharp losses to close mostly flat as investors sought opportunities and adjusted their holdings ahead of the Federal Reserve meeting today. [C10.] WOLFOWITZ SEEKS MORE TIME -- Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. endorsed the request by Paul D. Wolfowitz, the World Bank president, for more time to defend himself against charges of misconduct, a delay that could give the Bush administration time to negotiate his voluntary resignation. [A6.] LIVING WAGE IS LAW IN MARYLAND -- Maryland has approved the nation's first statewide living wage bill, giving fresh momentum to a movement that seeks to raise wages through legislation. [A21.] ONLINE Business Briefing Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business. AMAZON.COM, THE ONLINE retailer, and I.B.M. said they had settled all their patent-infringement lawsuits and signed a long-term patent cross-license agreement. (AP) THE WARNER MUSIC GROUP posted a wider quarterly loss and said it would cut about 400 jobs as it shifts resources to increase digital distribution of music and video. (REUTERS) DEUTSCHE BANK, the biggest lender in Germany, said that its first-quarter profit rose 30 percent, lifted by its debt and equity trading businesses. (AP) ELECTRONIC ARTS, the video game maker, said yesterday that it lost $25 million in its fourth fiscal quarter as it dealt with the introduction of new game consoles, but it did better than Wall Street expected. (AP) MARVEL ENTERTAINMENT, which licenses comic book characters like Spider-Man, posted a higher quarterly profit on growth in its licensing operations as well as increased contributions from toys and comic book publishing. (REUTERS) REVLON, THE COSMETICS maker, reported a narrower quarterly loss as a result of cost-cutting and a slight increase in sales. (REUTERS) TYCO INTERNATIONAL, which plans to split into three companies in coming weeks, reported lower quarterly earnings as revamping costs reduced earnings, but a low tax rate helped results beat Wall Street expectations. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); DIETING (86%); LITIGATION (86%); ANIMAL FOODS (86%); PET FOODS (86%); TAKEOVERS (78%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); CHEMICALS TRADE (75%); LIVESTOCK FEED (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); ANEMIA (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (64%); AMGEN INC (58%); AIRBUS SAS (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (54%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (91%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (64%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%); DOW (SWX) (54%); DOW (NYSE) (54%); DOW (LSE) (54%); 4850 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (71%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (51%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) CHINA (92%); EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



169 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: The Wizard Drops the Curtain

BYLINE: By Richard Dooling. 
Richard Dooling is the author of the forthcoming ''Rapture for the Geeks.''

DATELINE: OMAHA 

 BODY:
THE Berkshire Hathaway Corporation held its annual shareholders meeting here last weekend, drawing a record 27,000 capitalist faithful from all over the world to worship at the Qwest Center in downtown Omaha. Onstage, the chairman and investor in chief Warren Buffett and his partner and vice chairman, Charles Munger, once again entertained the well-washed and well-heeled masses and educated them in the doctrine of value investing. 
 And what's not to worship? Berkshire shareholders gained $16.9 billion in net worth last year alone, an 18.4 percent increase in per share book value. Even more fun, the guy in charge, despite being the second-wealthiest man in the world, is a prize ham who loves to play his ukulele, show a video of himself ''winning'' a rigged one-on-one game against LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers, and then kick off the shareholder meeting by sending the singer Jimmy Buffett onstage to pretend he is a distant cousin who believes ''that blood is thicker than water'' and therefore he -- the Margaritaville Man -- should be Mr. Buffett's successor. 
Succession was much discussed at both Saturday's shareholder Q. and A. session and at the Sunday press conference that was sandwiched between the shareholder-only shopping day at Borsheim's Fine Jewelry and the annual dinner at Gorat's Steak House. Warren Buffett is 76 years old, and Mr. Munger is 83. Nobody sitting with me in that audience wanted to think about anybody but Mr. Buffett in charge; his talk of stepping down is as if the Wizard himself, in an unwelcome inversion of Oz protocol, keeps calling attention to his own mortality. 
 On the operations side of Berkshire Hathaway, Mr. Buffett tells the crowd, he has three outstanding candidates who could replace him as chief executive, and that Berkshire's board of directors knows exactly how to proceed and who should take over if he should ''die tonight.'' On the investment side, Berkshire is not as well prepared. In the short term, Mr. Buffett says that he would rely on Lou Simpson, the portfolio manager of Geico insurance (a Berkshire subsidiary), to fill in for him if the need arose. But Mr. Simpson is only six years younger than Mr. Buffett, and Berkshire is looking for a candidate who could stay in charge for the long haul. 
 Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger, therefore, propose to find a person or persons with a proven ability to invest large sums and to whom they could entrust a chunk of cash -- say, ''just a few billion or so'' -- in a portfolio of investments that could quickly be enlarged, if performance warranted, to the near-hundred-billion dollars managed by the Wizard himself. 
 Despite all the talk about a viable successor, Mr. Buffet looked to be in good health and has no plans to retire. He merrily fielded questions about his diet while washing down See's chocolates with regular Coke (''I hate diet anything''). He attributes his continuing vigor to never smoking or drinking alcohol, to calories (''I like lots of calories''), to the longevity of his ancestors, and to the lack of ''job stress.''
 He was his usual self at the microphone, making impromptu riffs laced with wisecracks, concrete investment wisdom, jokes and an encyclopedic recall of the history of investing, with special attention to debacles brought on by the hubris of anybody who tried to get rich quick. If a reverie takes him off into a flight of high-level financial jargon on how executives are compensated, he immediately catches himself and abruptly summarizes with homespun wisdom like, ''Compensation committees are cocker spaniels when they should be Dobermans.'' 
 The proceedings weren't all merrymaking. Environmentalists and members of Indian tribes begged Mr. Buffett to have the Berkshire subsidiary PacifiCorp remove hydroelectric dams from the Klamath River in northern California. And after the Q. and A. session, Mr. Buffett allotted half an hour for shareholders to enter pleas for Berkshire to reconsider its investment in PetroChina, a subsidiary of China National Petroleum, on the theory that the parent company does business in Sudan and therefore theoretically contributes to the genocide there. Mr. Buffett was respectful and politic, even visibly moved, but also of the opinion that he could not influence either matter. All in all, the faithful seem unenthusiastic about the search for a successor. Perhaps Berkshire could invest in anti-aging technologies, or maybe a biotech outfit that could clone the man whom Charles Munger referred to at one point as ''a ferocious learning machine.'' 
 As Mr. Buffet answered questions over the weekend, the list of his successor's essential qualifications seemed to grow. Any candidate, or candidates, should be able to ''see around corners'' and be ''wired to detect risks'' including new and unforeseen investment hazards for which the past offers no guidance. In line with Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger's antipathy for lavish executive compensation, Berkshire's new stock picker in chief would be expected to remain at the helm for the long term, even though he or she could make more elsewhere. 
 A few times Mr. Buffett expressed the fear that his successor would be the type of investor who would make 99 intelligent decisions and then one fatal blunder. Both he and Mr. Munger characteristically played down expectations, proclaiming that managing $100 billion in assets is like steering an ocean liner and that no one managing such a vast enterprise could hope to beat the Standard & Poor's 500 by more than 10 percent per year. Instead they'd be more than pleased to find an investor who could outperform major stock indexes by several points and not make any huge blunders.
 Even though Mr. Buffett says that he personally thinks better and more clearly in Omaha than he does in New York (''less chatter''), his successor will not be required to live here. His replacement could live anywhere, because all that is really required is ''the same information everybody else has and a quiet room to think in.''
 Hmmm. That's a tough one for us Omahans to take. Still, we might be appeased if this successor met a few other qualifications. First, any new chairman or investor in chief of Berkshire Hathaway should be able to play the board to finesse the king-jack of trump at bridge when the bid is seven spades. The candidate should also be able to strum the ukulele; live in a house in central Omaha that he purchased in 1958 for $31,500; and be willing to appear with Regis Philbin on a mock game show, ''Who Wants to Be a Jillionaire?'', and then leave in disgust when told the prize is only a billion. 
 This person should also have read every book on investments in the Omaha Public Library (some of them twice) before age 10, should be a disciple of the economist Benjamin Graham; should be in love with investing and returns but care little for spending the money; should be able to donate more than $30 billion to the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation; should be above all else funny and well, there may be more. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Kelly Blair) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); RESTAURANTS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (85%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (56%) Berkshire Hathaway 

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (85%); BRK.A (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%); LEBRON JAMES (52%) Richard Dooling; Warren Buffett; Charles Munger

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%) NEBRASKA, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007



170 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Group Seeks Trade for Captive BBC Journalist

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

DATELINE: RAMALLAH, West Bank, May 9 

 BODY:
The Palestinian Authority information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, said Wednesday that there had been ''very important developments in the last 24 hours'' concerning the kidnapped BBC journalist Alan Johnston.
 The comments came shortly after Al Jazeera and the BBC announced the existence of a videotape in which the Army of Islam, a small, shadowy group in the Gaza Strip, demanded the release of Muslim prisoners in Britain in exchange for Mr. Johnston. And they came a day after a senior British diplomat, Richard Makepeace, met with the Palestinian prime minister from Hamas, Ismail Haniya, to discuss efforts to gain the journalist's release.
Mr. Johnston, 44, was seized from his car in Gaza City on March 12. His abduction has been unusual, even for the lawless Gaza Strip, for the length of time he has spent in captivity and the lack of any credible claim of responsibility or clear demands. 
 The BBC said the tape, received on Wednesday, contained no new pictures of Mr. Johnston but showed a picture of his BBC identity card. Last month a previously unknown group calling itself the Jihad and Tawhid Brigades said it had killed Mr. Johnston but failed to produce a promised video substantiating its claim. 
 Officials close to the investigation say there has been no verifiable sign of his condition. 
 Among the prisoners the group wants released is Sheik Abu Qatada, an Islamic cleric of Palestinian origin suspected of close links to Al Qaeda who is being held by the British government as a threat to national security.
 The Army of Islam was described by the BBC as ''influenced by, but not affiliated with, Al Qaeda,'' and led by Mumtaz Dagmush, a member of a powerful Gaza clan. Along with the military wing of Hamas and one other group, the Army of Islam claimed responsibility for the capture of an Israeli soldier, Cpl. Gilad Shalit, in a cross-border raid last June. 
 Corporal Shalit has not been released. Hamas has since broken ties with the group. Army of Islam was also a name used by militants who bombed the American International School in northern Gaza on April 21. 
 Mr. Barghouti described Mr. Johnston's kidnapping as ''a criminal act by a criminal mafia.'' He said that there had been a plan ''to storm the place where Mr. Johnston is being held and to rescue him,'' but that it had been dropped out of concern for his safety at the request of the British authorities. 
 Mark Byford, the deputy director general of the BBC, said in response to the tape: ''We of course welcome any sign that Alan may be alive and well. We profoundly hope that today's news may be a sign that Alan will soon be safely released.''
 The meeting between Mr. Makepeace and Mr. Haniya on Tuesday took place despite a continuing diplomatic boycott of Hamas, which is defined as a terrorist group by Israel, the United States and the European Union. British officials said Mr. Johnston's case had been the sole topic of discussion. 
 On Wednesday, the World Bank issued a report strongly criticizing the restrictions imposed by Israel on Palestinian movement in the West Bank, saying they were having a grave effect on the Palestinian economy. The report says the number of physical impediments like checkpoints and roadblocks rose by 44 percent since November 2005, when the United States brokered an agreement to ease the movement of people and goods. 
 While acknowledging Israel's legitimate security concerns, the report also censured the permit requirements that curb Palestinian travel, saying that Palestinians were barred from free access to large segments of the West Bank, amounting to an estimated 50 percent or more of the total area. About 435 miles of roads in the West Bank are off limits to Palestinian cars, the report said.
 Such restrictions make the chances of Palestinian economic recovery elusive, the report said.
 Mark Regev, an Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, said that ''Israel has no interest whatsoever in a failed Palestinian economy,'' which would only ensure that the Palestinian territories remained ''a breeding ground for terrorism.'' But he pointed to growing anarchy in the Palestinian territories as a fundamental reason Israel could not be more liberal regarding free movement. 
 The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent and an advocate of nonviolence, said he needed separate permits for travel from Ramallah to Jerusalem, to the Jordan Valley, to Gaza or abroad. ''I only have the fourth one at the moment,'' he said. Jihadi Mouse Show Off the Air 
 RAMALLAH, West Bank, May 9 (AP) -- Hamas militants have suspended a television program that featured a Mickey Mouse look-alike urging Palestinian children to fight Israel and work for global Islamic domination, Mr. Barghouti said Wednesday.
 He said the character, a large black and white rodent with a high-pitched voice, represented a ''mistaken approach'' to the Palestinian struggle against Israeli occupation. He said the program had been pulled from the Hamas-affiliated Al Aksa TV at the Information Ministry's request and ''placed under review.''
 ''You and I are laying the foundation for a world led by Islamists,'' the character squeaked on a recent episode. ''We will return the Islamic community to its former greatness and liberate Jerusalem, God willing, liberate Iraq, God willing, and liberate all the countries of the Muslims invaded by the murderers.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A shadowy Palestinian group has issued a demand for the release of Abu Qatada, right, in exchange for Alan Johnston, left, of the BBC. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); TERRORISM (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); ARMIES (90%); HAMAS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (60%) Terrorism; Palestinians; Prisoners of War; News and News Media; Kidnapping

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); HAMAS (57%) Army of Islam; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: Isabel Kershner; Alan Johnston; Abu Qatada (Ramsi Ahmed Ismael Muhammed); Mustafa Barghouti

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Israel

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



171 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Fed Gives No Signal Of Rate Shift

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 9 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve acknowledged Wednesday that the economy was slowing, but offered little hint that it was ready to lower interest rates anytime soon.
 As widely expected, the central bank kept the benchmark interest rate on overnight loans at 5.25 percent -- the same level it has been since the Fed began its ''pause'' almost one year ago.
It also reiterated its stance of the past year that inflation was still the ''predominant policy concern'' and gave short shrift to recent data suggesting that price pressures have ebbed. 
 ''Core inflation remains somewhat elevated,'' the Fed said in a statement with its decision. ''Although inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time, the high level of resource utilization has the potential to sustain those pressures.''
 That tilt suggested that the central bank would wait at least until its meeting in August, and very likely longer, before actually reducing the cost of borrowing.
 But policy makers kept their options open, avoiding any hint about whether the next move on interest rates will be up or down. 
 Fed officials have openly admitted that economic indicators are flashing a bewildering mix of green and red. Economic growth slowed sharply in the first quarter of this year to an annual pace of 1.3 percent, the slowest pace in four years, and job creation in April totaled only 88,000 -- the smallest increase in two years.
 But unemployment remains well below 5 percent, a level that many economists consider full employment, and the Fed's favorite measure of inflation is climbing slightly faster than its unofficial target of 1 to 2 percent a year.
 Fed officials have acknowledged that their goal of a ''soft landing'' for the economy faces more risks from both directions -- the possibility of unexpectedly slow growth and of unexpectedly stubborn inflation.
 With those mixed economic signals, Fed officials seemed determined to keep their options open.
 ''They continue to believe that the economy is going to grow faster, and that the drag from housing will wane,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital. ''That's why they continue to be focused on inflation.''
 In March, the Federal Reserve gave itself more flexibility to make its next move a rate cut rather than a rate increase. Instead of referring to the possible need for ''additional firming,'' which is Fed-speak for a rate increase, it simply referred to the possibility of ''future policy adjustments.''
 But Fed officials are loath to relax monetary policy as long as prices continue to climb more rapidly than their unofficial target of 2 percent a year. 
 Not for the first time in recent years, the economic signals are highly contradictory. Economic growth has averaged about 2 percent over the last six months. Wages have continued to rise faster than inflation, but the rate of increase has slowed.
 ''There's definitely a midcycle slowdown, but it's a very odd slowdown,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management. ''Housing and autos make up 9 percent of gross domestic product and are down 12 percent from last year, and that's a huge collapse. But the other 91 percent of the economy is up 3.5 percent over last year.'' 
 Fed policy makers have been puzzled about the ''disconnect'' between slowing growth and continued high employment. The big unanswered question is whether the past year's meltdown in the housing market, and a decline in refinancing by homeowners, may cripple consumer spending. 
 Many economists argue that the effect of the housing fallout has been delayed but will indeed lead to slower consumer spending and rising unemployment, thus forcing the Federal Reserve to start reducing interest rates.
 But others sharply disagree, noting that the housing downturn is now about a year old and should have already had a noticeable effect on other sectors.
 The most recent inflation data has been surprisingly mild as well.
 The Fed's favorite measure of inflation -- the Commerce Department's deflator for personal consumer expenditures, excluding food and energy -- slowed and in March was only 2.1 percent above the level one year earlier.
 But Fed officials rarely shift policy in response to one month of numbers.
 ''If it were us, we would adopt a more balanced stance,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, who has predicted that slow growth will force the Fed to reduce the overnight Fed funds rate to 4.5 percent from 5.25 percent by the end of this year.
 But Mr. Hatzius said he had not expected the Fed to give up its precautionary tilt against inflation just yet. ''The argument from their side is that they gave themselves a lot of flexibility at the last meeting,'' Mr. Hatzius said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday after the Federal Reserve said it would leave its benchmark interest rate at 5.25 percent. Fed officials have admitted that economic indicators have given mixed signals. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); JOB CREATION (71%) United States Economy; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



172 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Less Green at the Farmers' Market

BYLINE: By Corby Kummer. 
Corby Kummer, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of ''The Pleasures of Slow Food.''

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
IN the five years since the last farm bill was passed, the number of farmers' markets in this country has grown to nearly 4,500 from 2,750, gladdening the hearts of foodies who like nothing better than seeing locally grown Chioggia beets, butter radishes, Early Girl tomatoes, miniature pattypan squash, chervil, fresh goat cheese logs and duck breast in a conveniently located market. 
 Some of the best customers of farmers' markets, though, haven't been free-spending foodies, but food-aid recipients. Happily, the new farm bill before Congress has several proposals to vastly increase food aid to the poor, including two programs that allow them to buy at farmers' markets. 
That normally would be great for small farmers. Without the guaranteed income from the farm bill's $15 million Seniors Farmers' Market Nutrition Program and the separate $25 million Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (part of the food aid program for families known as WIC), some small growers would be out of business, and many others would be reluctant to sell in low-income neighborhoods where fresh produce is otherwise a rarity -- ''food deserts.'' 
 But, it turns out, new efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables -- which are calamitously underrepresented in American diets -- could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. 
 The Agriculture Department has proposed rules that would reallocate WIC benefits now restricted to eggs and dairy products, which have long enjoyed the muscle of well-financed lobbies, to fruits and vegetables, which haven't. Millions of children would be entitled to $6 a month for produce. And in its initial proposals for the new farm bill, the Bush administration suggested making available $200 million, starting next year, to buy fruits and vegetables for the poor. If such suggestions get approved, hundreds of millions more dollars could be spent every year on fresh produce. 
 There's a big catch, though: small farmers might not reap the windfall. Over the past 15 years, most states have switched from paper coupons for food stamps to debit cards, removing the stigma of redemption at the checkout counter. The WIC program, which still uses paper, will most likely do the same. Most farmers, of course, don't take plastic -- and, market managers say, they have seen their sales plummet with the switch from paper. 
 The need for farmers to enter the cashless economy is obvious. Wireless card readers will benefit both people on food assistance and foodies who (like me) don't carry all the cash they end up eager to spend. But who will pay for the machines, which can cost as much as $1,500 and incur steep monthly service fees, not to mention workers trained to use them? 
 Without card readers, farmers fear they will lose the bulk of the farm bill help they get now, and be shut out of those new hundreds of millions. The proposals at the Agriculture Department and in the farm bill would let food-aid recipients buy fruits and vegetables wherever they can find them. That means supermarkets -- which remain the most convenient place to buy produce. Farmers' market advocates are alarmed. The money will go to the centralized industrial farms that supply supermarkets, they say -- the ones that crush small farmers and waste fuel. 
 So: Help small farmers and the places dedicated to selling truly local food, or help the sharply increasing number of people struggling to feed themselves and their families? The most equitable way to help farmer's markets may be to urge legislators to support good programs already in the farm bill, like the Farmers' Market Promotion Program and Community Food Projects. These could equip farmers with card readers, an essential first step, and finance other ingenious projects to help small farmers thrive. 
 Concerned cooks (and everyone else) should urge increases for education programs that tell people how and where to use food stamps. Only 56 percent of people eligible for food stamps get them, and most of those recipients don't know that the stamps can be used at farmers' markets. A reason often given for the great success of the WIC farmers' market program is the nutrition education that comes with it. 
 Yes, supermarkets may well get the great majority of increased benefits for fresh produce. But a small slice of a much larger pie could amount to as much as or more money than farmers' markets now get from food-assistance programs. 
 And the new money available for fruit and vegetables would mean that ''specialty crops'' -- the kind we actually think of as food, as opposed to crops like corn, soy and cotton that get the much criticized multibillion-dollar commodity subsidies -- would finally get support from the farm bill. More people would eat healthier diets, and farmers might start growing even better-tasting varieties, confident of finding a market.
 Many other programs proposed for the farm bill could bring locally grown food to places that want and need it, like schools and hospitals. But farmers' markets are where the bill can best serve cooks -- a frequently well-financed, always opinionated special-interest group that should start acting like one. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Lane) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (91%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (88%); AGRICULTURE (78%); CHEESE (77%); LOBBYING (75%); FOOD SECURITY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); FAMILY (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NUTRITION (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); CHILDREN (67%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (64%); FOOD STAMPS (64%); DEBIT CARDS (60%); RETAIL COUPONS (53%) 

PERSON: Corby Kummer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



173 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts.
 Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas -- 250 miles away.
This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. 
 At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver's seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson's next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. 
 On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. 
 Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. 
 ''It was cheaper than getting a nanny,'' said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. ''I actually saved them a lot of money,'' Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm.
 Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. 
 ''To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,'' said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins University who studies intergenerational issues. ''They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.''
 ''In low-income families,'' he continued, ''it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.'' 
 Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. 
 The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. 
 ''This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale'' since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. 
 But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent.
 There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children's children. 
 ''We call them grandboomers,'' said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the AARP Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. ''They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.'' 
 For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. 
 ''Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,'' Mrs. Chen said.
 Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, ''I am a Chinese mother.'' Stepping in -- even moving in -- is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen's case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. ''He is lonely, but he has a job,'' Mrs. Chen said. 
 Mrs. Chen's daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care.
 Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. 
 ''I couldn't bring myself to do it,'' said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. ''I had a lot of guilt.'' 
 And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. ''It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,'' Andrea Kim said. 
 Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. 
 ''It's crazy, isn't it?'' said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. ''Somehow it works out.'' 
 As for the expense, the family waits for an e-mail alert that Southwest is offering a sale, then buys $1,000 worth of tickets. It's still expensive, but less so than professional child care, which would cost her daughter and her husband, Tim, $160 to $200 a week. 
 Noah's other grandmother, Nita Thomason, who lives in the Dallas area, watches him for another three days of the week. 
 Mrs. Kim was initially reluctant to take on the burden; she was very busy volunteering for her Southern Baptist church. But then she realized that her daughter was serious. ''She was desperate,'' she said. ''As a mother, I thought, 'She needs my help more than any other time of her life, and this is something I can do for her.' '' 
 Ted Curtis, 62, said that his daughter Beth Horowicz, a corporate lawyer, also didn't feel comfortable leaving her daughter, Addison, in day care. ''She never really adapted,'' he said of Addison, who was painfully shy and often clung to her mother's leg. 
 So a few years ago, Ted and his wife, Laurie, retired, sold their house in Maine and moved in with Beth and her husband, Ben, outside Baltimore to help raise Addison. The Horowiczes bought a new house for the extended family. The grandparents' presence has changed Addison, coaxing her out of her shell. ''It took a while to get her to open up, and now she talks and talks and talks,'' Mr. Curtis said. ''It's a whole different child.'' 
 The Curtises were eager to be closer to their grandchildren, as their children are scattered across the country. ''It was hard to be distant grandparents up in Maine,'' said Mrs. Curtis, who now baby-sits for another granddaughter in Baltimore as well.
 Some grandparents find lending a hand fulfilling. Kay Govoni of Burlington, Mass., retired 10 years ago so she could take care of her grandchildren full time.
 ''I do think that a lot of people my age are beginning to see that, O.K., we've retired, and so what do you do with your life: spend it all in a selfish let's-go-play, let's-go to-Florida, let's-go-out-to-dinner lifestyle?'' she said. ''That gets old hat very fast.'' 
 In many ways, being a grandparent is an extension of being a parent. Mrs. Kim said, ''My friends ask me, 'Is this for the grandbaby?' I thought about it and I know it's more about my child than my grandbaby.'' 
 Mrs. Curtis said: ''I think it's really hard on young women now. They're expected to do what my generation dreamed of doing.'' 
 And, she said, she believes it is her duty to help her daughters fulfill the ambitions she herself encouraged. ''I feel like I am responsible to some extent that they are pursuing the professions they have,'' she said. 
 Beth Horowicz is grateful to the Curtises for keeping the household running by cooking dinners, doing the laundry and sending the thank-you cards. ''They are the glue that holds things together,'' said Mrs. Horowicz, who, thanks to them, even has the luxury of a morning run. 
 Ben Horowicz said that when he mentioned to friends that his in-laws were moving with them, ''It would be followed by a moment of silence.'' But over time, his peers have changed their opinion, he said. ''A number of friends have expressed jealousy that we seem to have a manageable existence.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE HAND-OFF -- Angela Kim's baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She's met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it's off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah's preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. G7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (76%); AIRLINES (75%); TRAVEL TICKETS (70%); EARLY RETIREMENT (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); SOCIOLOGY (61%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%) Child Care; Families and Family Life; Children and Youth; Commuting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: Jennifer 8 Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



174 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 FED SEES A SLOWING ECONOMY The Federal Reserve acknowledged that the economy was slowing, but offered little hint that it was ready to lower interest rates anytime soon. The central bank kept the benchmark interest rate on overnight loans at 5.25 percent -- the same level it has been for almost a year. [Page C1.] THE AIRLINE FLIES IT; HE OWNS IT Steven Udvar-Hazy owns more airplanes than any airline in the world. A billionaire three times over and one of the most powerful players in commercial aviation, he is founder and chief executive of a Los Angeles-based company that leases planes to airlines all over the world. 
[C1.] HBO CHIEF AGREES TO RESIGN Time Warner announced that the chairman and chief executive of its Home Box Office unit, Chris Albrecht, had agreed to resign at the company's request, three days after he was arrested and charged with assaulting a girlfriend in a Las Vegas parking lot. [C1.] QUESTIONS FOR RESPECTED BANKER David K. P. Li of Hong Kong, who is expected to be questioned by authorities about a possible insider-trading case involving shares of Dow Jones, is an aristocratic banker who combines wealth, political influence and public service. [C1.] WITNESS'S CREDIBILITY ATTACKED A defense attorney in Conrad M. Black's criminal fraud trial attacked the credibility of the chief prosecution witness, F. David Radler, by pointing out the numerous times Mr. Radler had lied before he cut a deal with federal prosecutors. [C3.] A LOSS REPORTED BY TXU The TXU Corporation said that it swung to a loss in the first quarter after revenue fell 28 percent and it took a charge to cancel coal-fired power plants, a condition of the company's pending $32 billion sale to private owners.[C2.] MAGNA CONFIRMS CHRYSLER BID The chairman of the auto parts maker Magna International confirmed that his company and Onex, a Canadian investment company, had made a bid for Chrysler. [C3.] SLOWER PROFIT GROWTH AT TOYOTA Toyota reported another year of record profit but signaled a slowdown in the current year because of weakness in North America and increased spending. Toyota said its net profit jumped about 20 percent in the fiscal year ended in March, but forecast only a 0.4 percent rise in the current year. The slowdown ''is temporary, as we are planting the seeds'' of future growth, said Toyota's president, Katsuaki Watanabe, above. [C3.] EUROPEAN NAVIGATIONAL SATELLITES The European Commission is abandoning plans to build a satellite navigation system in partnership with private industry. The commission is likely to propose the project be wholly financed by the public sector. [C2.] MICROSOFT AND CAREERBUILDER Microsoft said that it would take a small equity stake in CareerBuilder, a popular job recruitment site operated by three big media companies. The deal deepens an existing partnership in a lucrative category of online classified advertising. [C11.] PROFIT 6.2% HIGHER AT NEWS CORP. The News Corporation, which disclosed a surprise bid for Dow Jones & Company last week, reported 6.2 percent higher quarterly profit on gains at its movie studio and cable networks, including Fox News Channel. By far the largest contributor to earnings and revenue growth in the latest quarter was movie and television production, whose profit jumped 82 percent, thanks in part to home video sales of ''Borat'' and the theatrical release of ''Night at the Museum'' and other movies. [C4.] STRENGTHENING THE F.D.A. The Senate passed a bill that gives the Food and Drug Administration new power to police drug safety, order changes in drug labels, regulate advertising and restrict the use and distribution of medicines found to pose serious risks to consumers. [A1.] MONEY, DRUGS AND INFLUENCE The intersection of money and medicine -- such as payments by a drug company to a prescribing physician -- has become an especially contentious issue in psychiatry, where increasing fees paid to doctors have coincided with the growing use of a relatively new class of drugs. [A1.] BATTLE OF BRITAIN'S TABLOIDS Two free tabloids in Britain are fighting a battle on the streets of London by trying to disprove their competitor's circulation claims. Advertising. [C4.] DRUG TESTING AT WORK A growing number of employers are establishing workplace drug programs, including testing workers for drug use, as a way to prevent accidents and lost productivity caused by substance abuse. Small Business. [C6.] INTEL VS. A.M.D. The fierce rivalry between the chip makers Intel and Advanced Micro Devices is ratcheting up as both companies claim superiority in technology used for notebook computers. [C5.] MARKETS REGAIN STRIDE Wall Street wobbled, then regained its stride after the Federal Reserve told investors what they expected to hear: that inflation is still too high for comfort, but that the central bank is holding interest rates steady. [C13.] MORE TIME FOR WOLFOWITZ The World Bank board, bowing to pressure from the Bush administration, agreed to give Paul D. Wolfowitz, the bank president, slightly more time to defend himself against charges of misconduct before the board decides his future. [A8.] VERIZON CUTS TIES WITH SINGER Verizon has ended its advertising affiliation with Akon, a smooth, Senegalese-American R&B singer, whose conduct in an amateur video circulating online recently seemed to cross a line for the telecommunications company. The move by Verizon has sent a chill through the ranks of touring pop artists and agents. [E1.]

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price of News Corporation shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); ARRESTS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); INSIDER TRADING (66%); LAWYERS (65%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (63%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (63%); POWER PLANTS (63%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (62%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (61%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (81%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (70%); ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP (66%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: MGA (NYSE) (81%); MG (TSX) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



175 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Curing The System

BYLINE: By ATUL GAWANDE. 
Atul Gawande, a surgeon at Brigham and Women's Hospital and a New Yorker staff writer, is the author of the new book ''Better.'' He is a guest columnist this month.

 BODY:
The American health insurance system is a slow-creeping ruin, damaging people and increasingly the employers that hire us. Yet there is another truth as well: the vast majority who have decent coverage are happy with the care we get -- I am writing this, for instance, as I sit with my 11-year-old son waiting for an M.R.I. to check the cardiac repair that has saved his life for a decade. So most have resisted large-scale change, fearing that it could make some lives worse, even as it makes others better. 
 And the truth is it could. 
There are two causes of human fallibility -- ignorance and ineptitude -- and health system change is at risk of both. We could err from ignorance, because we have never done anything remotely as ambitious as changing out a system that now involves 16 percent of our economy and every one of our lives. And we could err from ineptitude, underestimating the difficulties of even the most mundane tasks after reform -- like handling all the confused phone calls from those whose coverage has changed; ensuring that doctor's appointments and prescriptions don't fall through; avoiding disastrous cost overruns. 
 Health systems are nearly as complex as the body itself. They involve hospital care, mental health care, doctor visits, medications, ambulances, and everything else required to keep people alive and healthy. Experts have offered half a dozen more rational ways to finance all this than the wretched one we have. But we cannot change everything at once without causing harm. So we dawdle.
 We don't need to, though. It is possible to alter our system surgically enough to minimize harm while still channeling us onto a path out of our misery.
 Option 1 is a Massachusetts-style reform, which follows a strategy of shared responsibility. Enacted statewide last year, the law has four key components. It defines a guaranteed health plan that is now open to all legal residents without penalty for pre-existing conditions. Using public dollars, it has made the plan free to the poor and limited the cost to about 6 percent of income for families earning up to $52,000 a year. It requires all individuals to obtain insurance by year end. And it requires businesses with more than 10 employees to help cover insurance or pay into a state fund. 
 The reform gives everyone a responsibility. But it leaves untouched the majority with secure insurance while getting the rest covered. As a result, it has had strong public approval. Experience with delivering the new plan is accumulating. And best of all, it offers a mechanism that can absorb change. The guaranteed health plan may cover 5 percent of the state at first, but as job-based health care disintegrates, the plan can take in however many necessary. 
 The reform has its hurdles, no question. Some residents are angry about being made to buy health coverage -- 6 percent of income is not nothing. Next April, when the tax penalty kicks in (refusers will lose their personal tax exemption), you will hear about it. As enrollment and costs in the guaranteed plan rise, there will also be intense public pressure to increase the minimum employer contribution (currently just $295) and clamp down on the costs. But this is what a real system is for: gathering everyone in and enabling the hard choices. 
 The approach is not just a crazy Massachusetts idea (though Mitt Romney is running from parts of it). Reform plans recently put forward by everyone from the Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger to the Democrat John Edwards to a major new business coalition take the same tack. People don't want the mess we have -- not families, not employers and not health professionals. This offers a viable way forward.
 If it's still too much for people to accept, however, there is a second option, a fallback: we could guarantee coverage for today's children -- for their lifetime. It could be through private insurance or through a Medicare plan that families must enroll them in. Either way, the subsidies required are very much within our means. 
 We might even pass the fallback plan first. Then, while we are stymied fighting about how to fix the rest, there'd be at least one generation that could count on something more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (87%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HOSPITALS (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%) 

PERSON: Atul (Dr) Gawande

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



176 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Text of the Fed's Statement on Interest Rates

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 5 1/4 percent.
Economic growth slowed in the first part of this year and the adjustment in the housing sector is ongoing. Nevertheless, the economy seems likely to expand at a moderate pace over coming quarters. 
 Core inflation remains somewhat elevated. Although inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time, the high level of resource utilization has the potential to sustain those pressures. 
 In these circumstances, the committee's predominant policy concern remains the risk that inflation will fail to moderate as expected. Future policy adjustments will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information. 
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Cathy E. Minehan; Frederic S. Mishkin; Michael H. Moskow; William Poole and Kevin M. Warsh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (55%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); KEVIN WARSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



177 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Paying the Rent in New York: 4 Roommates (or a Trust Fund)

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of Wesleyan University, has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office.
 After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization's Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building's roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks.
While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. 
 As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York's rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. 
 While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. 
 They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011.
 ''It's only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in New York City,'' said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. ''While rents continue to rise, it's not sending people out of the city. There's still enough of a cachet,'' he said.
 While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers.
 The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. 
 Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices.
 ''There's going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,'' Mr. Kotler said. ''There just hasn't been enough rental product built,'' he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums.
 Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa.
 Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. 
 Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. 
 Ms. Heiberger-Jacobsen said she was seeing the overcrowding not only in tenement-type buildings, but also in doorman buildings. ''It really does create fire hazards,'' she said. ''You can't just have beds all over the place.''
 But more renters are finding that they cannot afford to stay in the city without resorting to less conventional living arrangements. For the last five years, Mindy Abovitz, 27, a drummer and graphic designer, has been living with four roommates in a 1,500-square-foot loft with one bathroom in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, which has become a haven for young people, that rents for $2,600 a month. 
 Her rent is a bargain, she said, because comparable spaces now cost as much as $4,500 a month. To accommodate everyone, the roommates created five bedrooms out of three by building walls from drywall and lumber. Then they soundproofed the walls with carpet padding to limit the noise. 
 Dividing the space has been an affordable solution, Ms. Abovitz said, though the loft becomes crowded when she and her roommates get ready for work or prepare meals. ''The kitchen and the bathroom are where you find the most traffic,'' she said.
 Students on tight budgets find it especially tough to find housing. Last fall, Kate Harvey, a part-time nanny and a junior at N.Y.U., and eight friends saved on rent by camping out in vacant offices at Michael Stapleton Associates, a downtown explosive-detection security firm. For nearly three months, they told the guards at 47 West Street that they were interns, even as they trudged in near midnight or pattered through the lobby at 10 a.m. in pajamas and slippers.
 Ms. Harvey's father, George Harvey, who is the chief executive of Michael Stapleton Associates, had lent them the space, which included two kitchens and two baths, after his company moved into a new office before the lease on its old one expired.
 They sneaked furniture into the 11th floor on the freight elevator, squeezed three beds into the former chief executive's office and turned filing cabinets into clothing drawers. One student pitched a tent. They brought their cat, Sula, past the front desk. They knew pets were allowed, they said, because the company had allowed bomb-sniffing dogs. 
 While most of the students who were interviewed said that they came from families that were fairly comfortable financially, they said that area rents were so high that they could not afford both housing and tuition. 
 ''It was nine girls and a cat,'' Ms. Harvey said, sipping on steamed milk in a Greenwich Village coffeehouse. ''At least three of the nine would have had a really hard time paying for school and staying there.''
 Mr. Harvey said his daughter told him that some friends had spent the summer sleeping on friends' couches and even in the N.Y.U. library because they could not afford rent.
 ''They were in some tough financial situations,'' Mr. Harvey said. ''It occurred to me that all this space was going to waste.''
 Now Ms. Harvey and two roommates from the office are looking for a new place to live. Each can spend up to $800 a month. Ms. Harvey has been searching the Craigslist Web site for apartments, but so far she has had no luck. 
 She says she is hopeful that they will eventually find something in Brooklyn, perhaps in the outer reaches of Park Slope. ''We're definitely going to have to expand our definition of Park Slope,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, outside the office building in Lower Manhattan where they lived with seven roommates. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); DANCERS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); DANCE (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LAWYERS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (52%) 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OUTWARD BOUND (83%)

PERSON: Christine Haughney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



178 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The Real Owner of All Those Planes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Most Airlines Rely on a Leasing Giant for the Latest Models

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
When Steven Udvar-Hazy was a teenager in New York City, he would often head after school to Idlewild Airport, as Kennedy International was known then, to watch planes take off and land. 
 Airplanes symbolized freedom to the young Mr. Hazy, whose family moved from Hungary when he was 12. For hours, he would spot different aircraft and pore over timetables to figure out where they were coming from, or headed to.
 Today, if anyone were to watch planes taking off at Kennedy -- or at most airports around the world -- they probably would be looking at planes owned by Mr. Hazy, a billionaire three times over and one of the most powerful players in commercial aviation. 
 As founder and chief executive of the Los Angeles-based International Lease Finance Corporation, Mr. Hazy has a fleet of 824 Boeings and Airbuses, with 254 more on order, that dwarfs any airline's in the world. He owns more planes than the industry leader, American Airlines, which has 679, and more than the combined holdings of Air France (265), Lufthansa (245) and British Airways (239). 
 But Mr. Hazy prefers to keep a low profile, a rarity in an industry that has attracted more than its share of big egos. He rarely grants interviews, and is more than happy to let his 157 customers -- airlines like Cathay Pacific, Air France and American -- paint their names and logos on his jets. 
 ''Not to put too fine a point on it, but in our industry, Steve Hazy is God,'' said Edmund S. Greenslet, editor of AirlineMonitor.com. ''No one has more influence than he does. He has an enormous impact on how manufacturers design their planes. He's the financial engine for airlines around the world.'' 
 Airlines lease airplanes for the same reason that cash-short consumers lease cars -- they can get new models for lower payments. 
 Nearly half of the airplanes flying today are leased by the airlines, and Mr. Hazy, with his $45 billion portfolio, is the biggest player, as measured by dollar volume, followed by General Electric. 
 In the 35 years he has been in business, Mr. Hazy has ordered 706 Boeing jets and around 600 from Airbus, making him the top customer for both companies. And they are eagerly courting him now in advance of the Paris Air Show, where he is expected to announce a big new order.
 His personal wealth is measured at $3.1 billion, putting him at No. 83 on the Forbes list of richest Americans. And, Mr. Hazy's place in aviation history was secure even before a $65 million donation helped get his name on the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Center at Dulles Airport. 
 Mr. Hazy became a pioneer in airplane leasing while still in his 20s, and is widely credited with creating an industry now valued at $129 billion. 
 He raised cash from a small group of fellow Hungarian emigres and started making deals while an economics student at U.C.L.A. As a junior in 1966, he advised Aer Lingus on how to save money by reducing the aircraft types in its fleet, and, as a senior, he brokered the sale of a turboprop from Air New Zealand to Reeve Aleutian Airlines. 
 In 1973, he founded his leasing company with two partners, and invested $150,000 to buy a used DC-8 to lease to Aeromexico. The group soon switched to the newest models. 
 Mr. Hazy's two partners, a Hungarian father-and-son team, are today each worth around $1.6 billion, according to the Forbes' list. 
 For Mr. Hazy, aviation is as much about emotion as business. 
 ''For a lot of people, it is hard to understand what it was like to be a child behind the Iron Curtain in the 1950s, when the cold war was burning strong,'' said Mr. Hazy, in an interview in his opulent office in Century City, Calif. ''As a child, you get a lot of indoctrination. You feel trapped, like a prisoner. So I always associated planes with escape and freedom, and still do.'' 
 Mr. Hazy said the idea to lease aircraft came to him when he saw the shift in the late 1960s from turboprops to jet planes. 
 ''That transition involved a quantum leap in capital costs,'' said Mr. Hazy, who flies his own Gulfstream V and who wore an Hermes tie with airplanes on it, airplane cuff links and an airplane lapel pin. He recounted that he saw that airlines ''needed outside financing from someone friendly and catering to the industry, and not just from a bank.'' 
 Today, Mr. Hazy has a staff of 170 employees in the top two floors of the MGM Tower (his penthouse office has a working fireplace). Nearly 2,000 models of airplanes decorate his offices.
 ''He lives and breathes the industry,'' said John Leahy, the chief Airbus salesman. ''When he was dating his wife, Christine, his idea of a exciting date was to go to the end of the runway and tell her about the DC-8 overhead.'' 
 His company, I.L.F.C., went public in 1983, when it had a market value of around $100 million. It was acquired by the American International Group in 1990 for $1.3 billion. In 2006, I.L.F.C. had pretax earnings of $716 million on revenue of $4.1 billion. 
 Mr. Hazy has shown an uncanny knack for picking winners among aircraft types, and avoiding deals with airlines that went bankrupt. 
 He buys planes with price tags like $40 million for a Boeing 737 and $200 million for a 747 (though he never pays list price, of course, since he buys in bulk and is such an important customer). He then spreads them around to many carriers, a process he calls seeding. 
 ''If we buy 50 planes,'' said Mr. Hazy, ''there could be 75 more sales from us indirectly.'' 
 Not surprisingly, his opinions are treated like gospel within the industry, and Boeing, Airbus and leading jet engine makers often seek out his advice. 
 ''He leads and the market follows,'' said Jon Kutler, president of Admiralty Partners, a Los Angeles investment firm specializing in aerospace. ''He's been responsible for commercial aviation trends and what comes off the assembly line.'' 
 Mr. Hazy says he is not shy about telling Boeing and Airbus what to build: ''We are saying to the manufacturers, 'Here's what the plane should look like.' Our loyalty is to the airline industry that serves the public, and the product has to be optimized for the airlines and not for the manufacturers. We are thinking about what the customer and what the industry need 20 years from now.'' 
 That includes jet engines. Charles Caldwell, former vice president for commercial jet engines at General Electric and now a consultant, said Mr. Hazy ''pushes us on fuel consumption, maintenance and emissions standards'' -- especially now that Europe, in particular, is becoming more demanding about such environmental issues. 
 Perhaps the most telling evidence of Mr. Hazy's influence is the very public role he played in forcing Airbus to go back to the drawing board and spend $8 billion to $10 billion to redesign its new A350 twin-aisle midsize jet after he found the design lacking. 
 Before a stunned crowd at an industry gathering last spring, Mr. Hazy lowered the boom on the A350 and, almost overnight, killed the design. This followed months of private discussions with Airbus executives in which Mr. Hazy complained that the proposed A350 was just a ''warmed up'' version of an existing plane, and that its wing design made it too slow. 
 Yet Airbus executives did not want to spend the billions to overhaul the A350 since they were already plowing billions into developing their new superjumbo A380. 
 ''I said they needed a new design,'' Mr. Hazy recalled. ''And they said, 'Well, that's easy for you to say, Mr. Hazy, it's not your money.' I felt Airbus was paying attention, but was not embracing our ideas. I was so frustrated with Airbus because they were stalling.'' 
 Once Mr. Hazy publicly criticized the A350, two crucial customers, Singapore Airlines and Emirates , joined in. At the Paris Air Show a few months later, Airbus was scrambling to unveil an entirely new design -- the A350 XWB, for extra wide bodied. 
 At a Paris news conference, the Airbus chief executive, Christian Streiff, went out of his way to cite Mr. Hazy, whom he called his company's ''No. 1 customer,'' for pushing Airbus to redesign the plane. 
 ''We were surprised that he said it publicly, but we were not surprised by the information,'' said Mr. Leahy of Airbus. 
 At the moment, Mr. Hazy has orders for up to 20 new A350s, but the contract will not be finished until the final design is set. 
 He also lobbied Boeing to create an extended-range version of its popular 777 and, in the case of Airbus, Mr. Hazy pushed to create the A319, one of Airbus's most successful planes, over the objection of Jean Pierson, the managing director at the time, who wanted to build a bigger plane, not a smaller one. 
 But, Mr. Hazy, over a glass of wine in Paris in 1993, convinced Mr. Pierson that there was a large market for a small jet and that he would buy the first six. 
 ''He had a glass of wine and said O.K.,'' Mr. Hazy said. ''Now it's sold 2,000 planes.'' 
 As for Boeing, Mr. Hazy has 24 of the new fuel-efficient midsize Dreamliner 787 jets on order and has publicly said he wants to buy as many as 100. Because of continuing negotiations with Mr. Hazy, Boeing declined to comment for this article, but did issue a statement saying that Mr. Hazy is ''one of the most recognized and respected leaders in our industry.'' 
 Mr. Hazy is outspoken on other industry matters as well. He is critical of American carriers, which he considers arrogant toward him and the industry. He has warned Boeing and Airbus that the days of their control may be numbered by the growth of the Chinese, Russian and Japanese aviation industries. And, he has told the industry that it had better start taking a growing environmental threat more seriously, saying that airlines will probably face increased taxation if they do not. 
 In fact, Mr. Hazy does far less business with American carriers, which he says have a short-term mentality, than international ones, with whom he has built long-term relationships. 
 ''Big U.S. carriers, since the dawn of the jet age, act almost like superior beings,'' said Mr. Hazy, who said that half his customers sought to re-negotiate leases after 9/11. ''They want all the benefits when times are good, but if they are bad, they want you to sacrifice.'' 
 Still, with I.L.F.C. making money at a time when American carriers are having financial problems, Mr. Hazy feels that he may have the last laugh: ''Our company is stronger than any major U.S. carrier. The day will come when they need I.L.F.C.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Udvar-Hazy, head of International Lease Finance, dictates plane design to companies like Boeing and Airbus. (Photo by Axel Koester for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Many of the world's airlines, especially foreign carriers like Iberia, rent their planes from International Lease Finance, a California-based company that owns 824 jetliners and has 254 more on order. (Photo by Rafael Diaz/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C5) Chart: ''A Fleet of Airplanes, For Lease'' The International Lease Finance Corporation, which leases planes to airlines worldwide, operated a fleet of 823 in 2006. AIRCRAFT LEASED AS OF DEC. 31, 2006 Boeing AIRCRAFT MODEL: 737 NUMBER IN FLEET: 218 AIRCRAFT MODEL: 757 NUMBER IN FLEET: 64 AIRCRAFT MODEL: 777 NUMBER IN FLEET: 58 AIRCRAFT MODEL: 767 NUMBER IN FLEET: 55 AIRCRAFT MODEL: other Boeing models NUMBER IN FLEET: 28 TOTAL BOEING: 423 Airbus AIRCRAFT MODEL: A320 NUMBER IN FLEET: 122 AIRCRAFT MODEL: A319 NUMBER IN FLEET: 104 AIRCRAFT MODEL: A330 NUMBER IN FLEET: 71 AIRCRAFT MODEL: A321 NUMBER IN FLEET: 63 AIRCRAFT MODEL: other Airbus models NUMBER IN FLEET: 40 TOTAL AIRBUS 400 (pg. C1) Chart: ''Leasing Planes Worldwide'' The International Lease Finance Corporation has customers among airline companies worldwide, but primarily in Europe. CUSTOMERS BY REGION Major customers shown in italics Europe: 48% Air France Iberia KLM Group Virgin Atlantic Latin America: 6% Aeromexico Africa and the Middle East: 11% Emirates U.S. and Canada: 15% Asia and the Pacific: 20% Air New Zealand Cathay Pacific China Southern Dragonair TOTAL 2006 CUSTOMERS: 157 (Source by ILFC)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); LEASING INDUSTRY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Renting and Leasing; Biographical Information

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (69%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); BOEING CO (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: International Lease Finance Corp; Boeing Co; Airbus

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); LHA (FRA) (58%); AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (69%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Steven Udvar-Hazy; Leslie Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (88%); HUNGARY (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (74%); ASIA (74%); CANADA (59%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



179 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: As Mayor Says No to '08 Bid, Revived Web Site Fuels Skeptics

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Does the mayor protest too much?
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg began his day saying he was not interested in running for president, but he ended it with a signal, albeit virtual, that he is still considering it. 
Late yesterday afternoon, Mr. Bloomberg announced that he was dusting off his old campaign Web site, www.mikebloomberg.com, to promote his work, public and private, on the issues he cares about.
 ''This new Web site is the single place where people can go to find out what I've done not only in government, but in business and philanthropy as well,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in a prepared statement.
 The announcement came just hours after Mr. Bloomberg jokingly told the audience at a breakfast organized by the Ladies' Home Journal that he was ''going to run Ray Kelly'', the police commissioner, for president because ''he's worked in Washington; I haven't.''
 Visitors to Mr. Bloomberg's Web site, which operated during both his mayoral campaigns only to be largely shut down after his victories, will find celebratory images of the mayor holding children and smiling amid a receptive public.
 They will also find recent news media coverage and invitations to learn more about his work ''in the public and private sectors to improve schools, reform health care, keep illegal guns off of our streets and bring nonpartisan solutions to government.''
 Among the descriptions of Mr. Bloomberg's efforts to reduce poverty, build low-cost housing, strengthen the economy and help the environment are campaign-style promotions of his work, like this summation of his first term: ''While many wondered about New York's future after the attacks of 9/11, Mayor Bloomberg brought a forward-looking agenda and optimistic spirit to his job and provided the leadership necessary to get New Yorkers through this uncertain time.''
 Asked why Mr. Bloomberg, whose undertakings are already closely chronicled by the news media and on the city's official site, www.nyc.gov, needed yet another platform at this particular moment, his chief spokesman, Stu Loeser, replied, ''These are all parts of his life, and he wanted to have one place that reflects all parts of his life.''
 Mr. Loeser said, almost as if on autopilot, that Mr. Bloomberg was not running for president, something Mr. Bloomberg himself has said repeatedly in recent weeks.
 But the appearance of the site, in the works for months, is bound to create the opposite impression. The site prominently features recent media coverage of his presidential prospects, and the overall effect, whether part of an actual campaign strategy or simply a means to heighten speculation about one, is to present the mayor as a champion of practical, nonpartisan solutions to vexing policy issues.
 ''It looks to me like the precursor of an independent bid for the presidency,'' said George Arzt, a consultant and veteran of city politics. ''He hits all the hot-button domestic issues: housing, economy, poverty, education.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WEB SITES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); CHILDREN (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (65%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Computers and the Internet; Mayors; Politics and Government

COMPANY: LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



180 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: A Sensible Solution to Thin Traffic, and One for Easing Concerns About Fairness

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University, is the author of ''The Economic Naturalist,'' which will be published this month. Contact: www.robert-h-frank.com.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg recently proposed charging a fee to motorists who enter Manhattan south of 86th Street on weekdays. Drivers of cars would face a daily charge of $8 from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., while the fee would be $21 for driving commercial trucks. 
 Although critics have attacked the plan, experience suggests that the economic benefits of what is known as ''congestion pricing'' are substantial. For example, after a daily fee of $14 was imposed on cars entering central London in February 2003, downtown traffic fell by a third and travel times on some bus lines fell by half. Londoners also saw carbon dioxide emissions fall by 20 percent, and there were substantial declines as well in emissions of particulates and nitrogen oxides, the main components of smog. 
But if the benefits of congestion pricing are so compelling, why is it so rarely adopted in this country? Perhaps the most important hurdle has been concern about hardships on low-income residents. For congestion fees to achieve their intended effects, they must be high enough to cause large numbers of people to alter their behavior. But fees that high would inevitably be burdensome for at least some people. 
 When this concern is not adequately addressed, proposals to change behavior by relying more heavily on market incentives are seldom accepted. Although studies have shown, for example, that daily and seasonal variations in electric rates would substantially reduce the average consumer's utility bills, proposals to adopt such rate plans are typically rejected because of concerns about low-income users who may lack the flexibility to alter their consumption patterns. 
 That such concerns so often block economically efficient programs is one of the enduring mysteries of modern political economy. An economically efficient program is, by definition, one whose benefit exceeds its cost. That means there must be ways of redistributing the gains so that every citizen, rich and poor, comes out ahead. Failure to adopt an efficient program thus raises the question of why we couldn't figure out how to accomplish the necessary transfers. Why are we leaving cash on the table?
 It is already clear that concerns about the effect of congestion fees on poor motorists underlie much of the gathering opposition to the mayor's plan. Lewis A. Fidler, a New York City councilman, for example, has called the plan ''outrageous, because they're saying rich people can come into Manhattan and poor people may not, and that is just wrong, wrong, wrong.'' Unless such concerns can be satisfactorily addressed, they are likely to sink the mayor's proposal. 
 Mayor Bloomberg may thus do well to study the New York State Public Service Commission's attempt to impose fees for directory assistance in the mid-1970s. That experience illustrates not only the decisive importance of equity concerns in public policy decisions, but also how easy it often is to address them. 
 In a reform effort begun by Joseph C. Swidler, then the chairman, and completed by his successor, Alfred E. Kahn, the agency that regulates New York's public utilities took aim at the now quaint-seeming practice of providing directory assistance free. The commission argued that a 10-cent charge for directory assistance calls would give consumers an incentive to look up telephone numbers on their own whenever convenient, which would free up operators and equipment for more valuable tasks. 
 Although the commission's proposal promised net benefits for the average telephone subscriber, it was greeted by a firestorm of protest. And when social scientists testified gravely, albeit absurdly, that it threatened to disrupt vital networks of communication in the community, its defeat appeared certain.
 Commission officials then introduced a simple amendment that saved it. In addition to charging 10 cents for each directory assistance call, they proposed a 30-cent credit on each consumer's monthly phone bill, a reduction made possible by the additional revenue from the charge and the savings from reduced volumes of directory assistance calls. Because this amendment promised to reduce the monthly bill of customers willing to use their phone books, political opposition vanished overnight. 
 No one who witnessed this episode came away without a deep appreciation of how the strongly the fate of public policy proposals is tied to concerns about how they will affect the poor. After all, those concerns nearly defeated an otherwise unimpeachable proposal, even though a 10-cent charge for directory assistance calls would have had essentially no impact on even the poorest family's standard of living. 
 If Mayor Bloomberg wants New Yorkers to reap the considerable benefits promised by congestion pricing, he should follow the Public Service Commission's example. Although most people who currently commute by car into Manhattan are not poor, some are, and for these drivers, paying $8 each day would be difficult. It is an iron law of politics that those who stand to lose from a change in policy lobby much more intensively than those who stand to benefit. Rather than allow concern for poor drivers to doom congestion fees, the city should adopt a simple variant of the phone bill rebate. 
 For example, every worker in Manhattan could be given transferable vouchers that could be used to defray some portion of the new fees. This would protect low-income people who sometimes have no choice but to drive into the city during peak hours. Those who could avoid such trips could sell some or all of their vouchers to others. All New Yorkers could thus enjoy the benefits of cleaner air and reduced traffic congestion without imposing a burden on low-income families.
 Can the city afford to address concerns about low-income motorists in this way? With New York's rapidly growing population making congestion more severe each year, a better question may be whether it can afford not to.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UTILITY RATES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (87%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); EMISSIONS (74%); NITROGEN OXIDES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); SMOG (70%); PARTICULATE MATTER (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (64%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (64%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (55%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Vouchers; Roads and Traffic

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Robert H Frank; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



181 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Top Legislators Ask Spitzer to Rethink Hospital Closing Plan

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 9 

 BODY:
The Republican and Democratic leaders of the State Legislature said Wednesday that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state.
 The comments by Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, came during and after a public meeting that Mr. Spitzer convened to identify legislation that might win approval before the end of the legislative session in six weeks.
While they disagreed on some other issues, Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver appeared to agree when it came to hospital closings, an issue so contentious and polarizing in Albany that lawmakers created a commission to handle it. 
 Last year, that commission -- formally called the Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century -- proposed a sweeping reorganization of the state's hospitals through closings, mergers, downsizing, the elimination of some services, and the addition of others. The plan elicited sharp criticism from hospital executives and local elected officials, who pledged to fight it. But Mr. Spitzer, then the governor-elect, said he supported the plan, and the State Legislature, despite some grumbling, allowed it to take effect.
 On Wednesday, however, Mr. Bruno said the commission's recommendations were up for reconsideration. ''We have to look at the ramifications of what we did and correct it,'' he said. ''We're governing here on a daily basis. You don't govern once a year.''
 Mr. Silver said that his members were unhappy with some of the recommendations of the commission, and that it ''should not be the end-all and the be-all.''
 He also said that key Assembly lawmakers were in discussions with the state Department of Health regarding modifying some of the commission's proposals, for example, by keeping open some hospitals that would have been closed and by reconfiguring some mergers so that other hospitals could continue to offer specific kinds of care. 
 Some of the hospitals under discussion, Mr. Silver said, are in Buffalo, Syracuse, Stony Brook and Brooklyn. Ultimately, he said, the Legislature would need to approve a new law for some of the changes.
 ''The governor has indicated we should have these conversations with the Health Department and go forward and see what we can do,'' Mr. Silver said.
 But at a news conference later in the day, Mr. Spitzer suggested that those discussions were fairly limited in scope. ''I don't think the Berger commission recommendations will be reversed or revised,'' he said, referring to the commission by the name of its chairman, Stephen Berger. ''The issue now is implementing the Berger commission recommendations in a way that shows sensitivity to the communities affected in terms of the continuity of care, in terms of the financing of institutions and job retention that is affected thereby.''
 Mr. Spitzer and leaders of the Legislature did find some common ground. 
 They agreed to tackle a law on where to build power plants, legislation to overhaul state authorities, and Mr. Spitzer's proposal to have healthier food at schools. But the meeting, though cordial, also betrayed lingering disagreements over some major issues and legislation, not limited to hospital closings. 
 As he has often done in the past few weeks, Mr. Bruno again made clear -- somewhat impatiently this time -- that he did not share the governor's top priority, stricter campaign finance laws.
 ''I would recommend we move past that because it's going to bog us down,'' Mr. Bruno said. 
 Later in the day, Mr. Spitzer, however, held a news conference with government watchdog groups to renew his call for campaign finance changes.
 One of Mr. Bruno's own priorities, reinstating the death penalty for those who murder law enforcement officers, in turn got a lukewarm reception from Mr. Silver, who said that the state's past experiment with capital punishment was a failure. But the areas of agreement, if overshadowed by the disagreements, were still significant. 
 Absence of a law on the location of power plants has made it impossible to build new ones for years, despite New Yorkers' growing appetite for electricity. 
 And the state's secretive public authorities have been an enduring source of scandal, waste and fraud. 
 The leaders also spoke about the need to overhaul the Wicks Law, which requires school districts and others to hire at least four contractors for big construction jobs, a rule that many school officials say drives up building costs.
 Mr. Spitzer also said he would look with Mr. Bruno for ways to provide more capital investment upstate. Later in the day, the governor and the Legislature announced completion of a long-awaited economic deal under which Sematech, a major consortium of semiconductor and nanotechnology companies, is setting up a headquarters in Albany in exchange for $300 million in state assistance.
 But not before a few barbed lines were traded about Albany's climate, political and otherwise.
 ''Look at the sky today; it's a gorgeous day out there,'' Mr. Spitzer said after urging Mr. Bruno to pass a campaign finance bill.
 ''It's going to rain tomorrow,'' Mr. Bruno replied. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno
Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson
Gov. Eliot Spitzer
 and Sheldon Silver, Assembly speaker, met yesterday in Albany to discuss and propose legislative priorities for the six weeks left in the session. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); HOSPITALS (92%); CLOSINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); DIVESTITURES (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Shutdowns (Institutional); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); DAVID PATERSON (58%) Nicholas Confessore; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



182 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18 Moderates in G.O.P. Warn Bush on His Iraq War Policy Moderate Republicans gave President Bush a blunt warning on his Iraq policy at a private White House meeting, telling the president that conditions needed to improve markedly by fall or more Republicans would desert him on the war. A1 After a day of talks in Iraq with the country's fractious political leaders, Vice President Dick Cheney said that he detected ''a greater sense of urgency'' among them on issues that the Bush administration sees as the key to sustained progress against insurgent and militia groups. A12 Afghans Claim Civilian Deaths Afghan officials said that airstrikes called in by the American military against Taliban fighters killed 21 civilians on Tuesday, the latest in a series of episodes involving claims of noncombatant casualties that have strained relations with the Afghan government. A10 Obstacle to Bush Missile Plan The Democratic majority in Congress is moving toward budget cuts to slow a Bush administration plan to break ground on one of two missile defense bases in Europe. 
A5 Germany Safeguards Group of 8 Four weeks before leaders of the world's big industrial nations are to gather at a Baltic Sea resort in northern Germany, the police conducted sweeping raids on the offices and homes of left-wing campaigners whom they suspected of planning to disrupt the meeting. A14 NATIONAL A20-30 Senate Passes Drug Bill Giving F.D.A. More Control By a vote of 93 to 1, the Senate passed a bill that gives the Food and Drug Administration new power to police drug safety, order changes in drug labels, regulate advertising and restrict the use and distribution of medicines found to pose serious risks to consumers. A1 Giuliani on Abortion Rudolph W. Giuliani is planning to offer a forthright affirmation of his support for abortion rights in public forums, television appearances and interviews, aides said. A29 Ban on Lender Gifts Advances The House of Representatives voted to ban gifts and payments by student loan companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. A22 Indictment in 1965 Killing A grand jury in Alabama handed up an indictment in a killing that helped inspire the historic Selma-to-Montgomery march in 1965 in the latest in a wave of prosecutions of crimes from the civil rights era. A20 SCIENCE/HEALTH Money's Role in Prescribing The intersection of money and medicine and its effect on the well-being of patients has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry. A1 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8 Portraits Emerge In Fort Dix Terror Plot A portrait of five of the men suspected in a terror plot against an Army base in New Jersey began to emerge a day after their arrests. Relatives of the three brothers arrested said they could not believe the charges. Another suspect had grown so religious that his father said they had become estranged. And the wife of a fifth suspect said he had been keeping up an exhausting routine of work, sleep and prayer. A1 Renters Cope With Squeeze Radical solutions to New York's tight real estate market are becoming more common among young, well-educated newcomers to the city, brokers say. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly that they may be violating city codes. A1 Hospital Plan Do-Over? Republican and Democratic leaders of the New York Legislature want Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-14 Interest Rate Unchanged The Federal Reserve acknowledged that the economy was slowing, but offered little hint that it was ready to lower interest rates anytime soon. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A32-33 Editorials: U.S. attorneys, reloaded; shortchanging the census; silence on guns; chefs topped with debt. Columns: Atul Gawande, Nicholas D. Kristof. Bridge E8 TV Listings E11 Crossword E9 Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INDICTMENTS (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); MILITARY BASES (74%); BUDGETS (72%); DRUG SAFETY (69%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (67%); STUDENT LOANS (66%); GRAND JURY (65%); DRUG LABELING (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (63%); ABORTION (62%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (61%); PSYCHIATRY (60%); BUDGET CUTS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); DICK CHENEY (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



183 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Some Leeway for Wolfowitz, Who Gets a Good Word From Rice

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 9 

 BODY:
Bowing to pressure from the Bush administration, the World Bank board agreed Wednesday to give Paul D. Wolfowitz, the bank's president, slightly more time to defend himself against charges of misconduct before the board decides his future.
 In a development that might help Mr. Wolfowitz's fight to remain as bank president, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has lobbied European foreign ministers in the last two weeks, expressing support for him.
''She has spoken with several European foreign ministers about her positive impressions of Paul and the job he's doing at the World Bank,'' Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said in an interview on Wednesday when asked whether Ms. Rice had become involved in supporting Mr. Wolfowitz. 
 Despite Ms. Rice's efforts and the board's decision to give Mr. Wolfowitz more time, bank officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the deliberations are confidential, said they saw no indication that the board was any less determined to oust him from the presidency.
 Mr. Wolfowitz was given until Friday evening -- two additional days -- to make his case in writing to the board, and it was expected that he would appear before the board as early as Monday. The board is to vote on whether he deserves a reprimand, a vote of no confidence or outright removal.
 But even those plans could change. Discussions continued Wednesday on whether to proceed with a vote next week. Many bank officials continue to hope that Mr. Wolfowitz will resign, making a vote unnecessary. 
 Last weekend, a special committee of the board concluded that Mr. Wolfowitz violated bank rules and the terms of his contract by directing that Shaha Ali Riza, his companion, be awarded a large pay and promotion package when she was transferred to the State Department in 2005.
 There were also more reports on Wednesday of officials in Europe who favor Mr. Wolfowitz's departure. 
 A senior German official, Karin Kortmann, told the German Parliament that Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul, the German development minister, had told Mr. Wolfowitz last month ''that his voluntary resignation was the best solution for the bank and its goals.'' 
 But Ms. Kortmann, a state secretary in the development ministry, said the United States should be given ''room to react'' to the crisis before any divisive vote at the bank.
 This was apparently a reference to Europeans' hope that the United States would persuade Mr. Wolfowitz to step down, possibly in return for assurances that President Bush could nominate his successor.
 It has been a tradition since the 1940s that the United States selects the World Bank president and the Europeans select the head of the International Monetary Fund.
 The German comments echoed those on Tuesday by top officials in Belgium and the Netherlands.
 Mr. Wolfowitz's lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, has said his client wants to present a lengthy rebuttal to the charge by current and former bank officials that he gave Ms. Riza the raise without informing or consulting them.
 Mr. Bennett said the record showed that Mr. Wolfowitz gave her the pay and promotion package only after being told by top bank officials that he had to make the arrangements on his own.
 Bank officials disagree, saying that while they told him to give her a raise in compensation for being moved to the State Department against her will, he should not have determined the amount by himself, especially since it involved an unusually large amount and promises of future promotions and raises.
 The committee that found Mr. Wolfowitz guilty of breaking bank rules has not yet determined what punishment to recommend. Whatever the panel recommends, however, will be subject to a final determination by the 24 board members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%) Ethics

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Steven R Weisman; Paul D Wolfowitz; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; George W (Pres) Bush; Shaha Ali Riza

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



184 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Scot With Baggage Readies Move Into the Leader's Role

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON, May 9 

 BODY:
With Prime Minister Tony Blair expected to announce Thursday his plans to step down as leader of the Labor Party, Britons seem set to trade the Great Communicator for the Great Puzzle -- Mr. Blair's likely successor, James Gordon Brown.
 Mr. Brown is the 56-year-old son of a Church of Scotland preacher who combines academic rigor -- he entered Edinburgh University at 16 -- with the rough and tumble of a lifelong political career that started in the Scottish Labor Party. But for all the years of fanfare heralding Mr. Brown's ascendancy, the details of his vision for Britain, particularly its relationship with the United States, remain opaque.
''The next prime minister is, by and large, a blank sheet of paper,'' The Sunday Times said in an editorial. ''Over the next few weeks, perhaps, he should start to fill in some of the details.''
 Part of the public persona is better known. Mr. Brown's manner is far from the silver-tongued slickness of Mr. Blair. Indeed, Mr. Blair has likened his successor to ''a great clunking fist'' of a politician who will lead Labor into battle against the polished Conservative leader, David Cameron. 
 From his body language, slumped on the benches of Parliament, Mr. Brown sometimes seems dour and troubled, at times conspiratorial. His speeches evoke the Protestant ethnic of hard work and decency bred by his Scottish upbringing.
 Sir Andrew Turnbull, a former senior colleague at the Exchequer, Britain's treasury department, once described Mr. Brown's management style as Stalinist. Mr. Brown's adversaries depict him as brusque and reclusive. To some, he resembles a dark prince who has waited a decade for his throne only to see his inheritance devalued by an unpopular war in Iraq, hints of economic troubles and a loss of trust in his party. 
 ''His dread must be that he will finally get to sup from the chalice only to find that it is poisoned,'' Andrew Rawnsley wrote in a commentary in The Observer.
 Mr. Brown has promised a switch from the celebrity overtones of the Blair era to a more stalwart aura. 
 ''I think we're moving from this period when celebrity matters, when people have become famous for being famous,'' Mr. Brown said in an interview published in The Guardian last month. ''I've somehow got more faith in the essential decency of the British people: they want to talk about big and important issues in a way that does justice to them.'' 
 In many political successions, the new arrival can simply blame the predecessor for an inheritance of woes. But that is not the case here. Since Labor came to power in 1997, Mr. Blair and Mr. Brown have almost been partners. Mr. Brown was at the prime minister's side through three election victories and, as chancellor of the Exchequer, wielded enormous power over swelling public spending and soaring tax bills.
 When he takes power in late June or early July, thus, he will be under pressure to signal a break with the past to shed the unpopularity Mr. Blair brought on himself and his party from the Iraq war, and steel his followers for what could be a closely fought general election, possibly within two years.
 The style will certainly be different. Mr. Blair is comfortable speaking off the cuff, for instance. As Mr. Brown addresses an audience, his hands move constantly to bring any errant pages of his address into line, as if he seeks to marshal an unruly army.
 His critics note that when confronted by trouble, he has a knack for withdrawing out of sight -- as after last week's regional elections, in which Labor lost heavily, particularly in Scotland, Mr. Brown's home turf, despite his campaigning. 
 In the House of Commons on Wednesday, indeed, the Conservatives' Mr. Cameron taunted Mr. Brown to his face across the green leather benches for apparently disappearing in the face of trouble. 
 ''Everybody knows who the next Labor leader is, and thank God he's got out of his black limo and come to the Commons,'' Mr. Cameron said, adding that with Mr. Blair and his allies all but gone, Britain was living under ''a government of the living dead.''
 Mr. Brown's claim on power dates to a never-confirmed deal with Mr. Blair in 1994, struck over dinner at a restaurant called Granita in the Islington neighborhood of London. Initially, Mr. Brown was expecting a transfer of power relatively soon in Labor's ascendancy. But election followed election and the deal gave way to a poorly disguised rivalry that sometimes, as happened last summer, spilled into what Mr. Blair's followers called a coup attempt by Mr. Brown's followers. 
 Finally, in September 2004, Mr. Blair said he would not fight a fourth election but would serve a full third term after the 2005 balloting. In the British political calendar, that could have kept him in office until 2010. 
 After last year's insurrection, the prime minister abandoned that hope, announcing in September that he would be out within a year. That transfer is now set to begin. But it is coming much later than Mr. Brown might have wished. 
 He is inheriting a party midway through its third term with its campaign coffers low after a financing scandal, and its membership reduced. Most of the heavyweight Labor politicians who might have challenged Mr. Brown have withdrawn from the fray. 
 In practical terms, Mr. Brown's ''in'' box will include, predominantly, the shaping of his foreign policies in Iraq and Afghanistan, where British troops are taking steady losses, and, closer to home, the decline of Labor Party power, particularly in his Scottish fief, where the separatist Scottish National Party emerged in last week's voting as the biggest grouping, ending five decades of Labor dominance.
 Mr. Brown has hinted that he will seek to move away from Mr. Blair's militarism in the Muslim world toward a ''hearts and minds'' battle against radical Islam. He is expected to seek a new tone in relations with the United States, to escape the jibe that haunted Mr. Blair, of being President Bush's ''poodle.'' 
 At home, Mr. Brown has made it clear that he will oppose any moves toward Scottish independence from Britain.
 Perhaps the biggest challenge, some argue, is to restore trust in politicians and to make a break with the past. ''The biggest issue is distinguishing himself from Tony Blair,'' said Timothy Garton Ash, a professor of modern history at Oxford University. 
 But mistrust of the Blair government over Iraq might, perversely, offer an advantage to Mr. Brown.
 ''I think he is seen as a somewhat more solid, son-of-the-manse clergyman's son, giving it to you straight, to the point of being boring,'' Professor Garton Ash said in a telephone interview. ''He's not regarded as a prince of spin or a liar.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gordon Brown, chancellor of the Exchequer and probably the next prime minister, succeeding Tony Blair, will offer a much different style. (Photo by David Moir/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RELIGION (76%); IRAQ WAR (66%) Elections; United States International Relations

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (93%); GORDON BROWN (92%); DAVID CAMERON (79%) Alan Cowell; Gordon (Chancellor of the Exchequer) Brown; Tony (Prime Min) Blair

GEOGRAPHIC: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) Great Britain; Scotland

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007



185 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: $350 Liquor? Just Spreading The Wealth

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Steve Leuthold, a money manager out of Minneapolis, told his clients last month that he was appalled by something he had read in The New York Times.
 He pointed to an article about ''bottle hosts'' at chic nightclubs in New York, whose job was to spot, and give the best tables to, the people willing to spend the most money on drinks. ''One club had a table minimum of two bottles of liquor or Champagne at $350 per bottle,'' Mr. Leuthold wrote. ''But this is a minimum.'' He noted that one brand of Champagne fetched $1,600 a bottle, and that the average liquor bill for a table at one club was about $3,500, with some tables bringing in $12,000 or more.
''Maybe I am too Norwegian (or too Midwest), but I find this reprehensible,'' he wrote. ''How about you?'' 
 Mr. Leuthold is an old friend of mine, and I am surprised he does not understand and applaud the economic function of such things. It is a classic example of private enterprise stepping in to fill a void left when the government no longer fills a role it once did.
 That role is income redistribution.
 Half a century ago, when Dwight D. Eisenhower was in the White House, personal income tax rates ranged up to 91 percent on income of more than $400,000. The rate for those who made more than $100,000 a year was 75 percent.
 Adjusted for inflation, that would be equivalent to around $3 million now for the 91 percent rate, and $730,000 for the 75 percent rate. The current top rate is 35 percent.
 There are plenty of other ways that the tax code is now more friendly to the wealthy than it was. In 1957, long-term capital gains faced a 25 percent tax. Now the rate is 15 percent. Dividends were taxed at ordinary income tax rates, but are now taxed at 15 percent. The estate tax is on its way to being repealed in 2010, although for just one year. Hedge fund barons who make hundreds of millions a year arrange to keep the money offshore, delaying for years the need to pay any taxes at all on the money. The high tax rates of long ago were often avoided through tax shelters, but they reflected a certain egalitarian spirit, which itself was a reaction to the excesses of the very wealthy ''robber barons'' of the late 19th century. 
 ''Surely we can afford to make a distinction between the people whose only capital is their mental and physical energy and the people whose income is derived from investments,'' wrote Andrew Mellon, the Treasury secretary in the 1920s. He thought it was ''beyond question'' that taxes should be higher on investment income than on income earned from labor.
 Those days are gone, and it may be that they cannot come back, even if the political will arrives to bring them back. Capital is too mobile, and companies and individuals can shift income overseas much easier than they could in Mellon's day. 
 But whether or not the government can redistribute the money, the private economy will try to do it. The wealthy are persuaded that they simply must be in hedge funds and private equity funds -- and should pay a fee to a bank for getting them into such funds. That is on top of the high fees charged by the funds themselves. The investments may or may not do well, but those collecting the fees are sure to prosper.
 Then there are the growth areas of the economy -- and I don't mean semiconductors. Last year at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, officials suggested there was great opportunity for personal trainers, people who can keep the rich looking fit and thin. This week, The Wall Street Journal reported that membership in the Institute for Divorce Financial Analysts is rising at a rate of 25 percent a year. Such analysts claim to be able to help sort out divorce fights for the wealthy. 
 In that context, outrageously priced drinks at fancy clubs can be seen as simply taking money from those with too much of it, and passing it on to others. 
 Those who get it may not be the most deserving, but that was also true when the government was handing out the money. And such clubs at least are more honest than the penny-stock frauds that often aim at people who have made a lot of money without really understanding much about it.
 Thirty years ago this month, Peter F. Drucker, the great writer on management, bemoaned the fact that a few chief executives were collecting millions. Attention given such pay, he wrote then, obscured ''the achievement of U.S. business in this century: the steady narrowing of the income gap between the 'boss man' and the 'working man.' ''
 That trend reversed, and in this century the boss makes more than ever. The government does not tax it away, so others seek ways to get some of the wealth. 

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the TOP MARGINAL INDIVIDUAL INCOME TAX RATE since 1946. (Source by Tax Foundation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (86%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ESTATE TAX (71%); TAX LAW (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Taxation

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



186 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Pension Funds Becoming Buyout Players

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: TORONTO, May 10 

 BODY:
Public pension funds have long been big investors in private equity. Now, some big Canadian pension funds are taking a page from the private equity playback and taking the lead in buyouts.
 The Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board, which was set up a decade ago to prevent the collapse of Canada's main retirement fund, is heading up a consortium that has been in talks on a possible $45 billion buyout of the parent of Bell Canada, BCE.
Its chief rival bidder for BCE is a group led by the $93 billion Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan.
 As do the American private equity giants, Canadian pension funds are using their billions of dollars under management and long investment time frames to pursue deals aggressively both at home and abroad. 
 The long-term view of the Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board, said David Denison, its president and chief executive, ''allows us to take advantage of investment opportunities that in our context will be attractive in that they will create value over a time frame that makes sense for us.''
 It is that long-term perspective, and the independence of the management of the Canadian funds from their beneficiaries and, perhaps more important, politicians, that has allowed them to be aggressive -- and, so far, successful -- investors.
 ''It's pretty evident that it's successful by any measure,'' said John C. Rother, the director of legislation and public policy for AARP, formerly the American Association of Retired Persons. ''It has the great virtue of making higher taxes or deeper benefit cuts unnecessary. Once people see it in these terms, it becomes really attractive.''
 While many Canadians share Mr. Rother's view that the investment board, which currently manages 110.8 billion Canadian dollars ($100.2 billion), is a success, its creation was something of a political miracle. It took forecasts in the early 1990s that insolvency was looming to persuade the federal government and nine provinces together to work out an overhaul. (Quebec opted out of the national pension plan in 1966 and operates its own benefit system.)
 In addition to any private or work-related pension plans they might have, all retired Canadians outside of Quebec receive two monthly payments. A minimal pension is offered by the old-age security program. The 41-year-old Canada Pension Plan, which provides about 25 percent of the average industrial wage, is financed by mandatory contributions from all working Canadians.
 For most of its history, the plan's investment program was a far cry from private equity: It lent money at favorable interest rates to provincial governments.
 With a funding shortfall looming 20 years out, the two levels of government agreed to some drastic changes in 1996, an unusual step in a country where federal-provincial negotiations often produce nothing but prolonged arguments.
 First, the contribution level was raised about 80 percent, to 9.9 percent, on a current maximum of 42,100 Canadian dollars in annual earnings. Employees split that cost with their companies while self-employed workers pay the full amount.
 Then the government took 44 billion Canadian dollars in bonds and established the investment board as a separate entity from the operating part of the pension plan and with a broad mandate to maximize investment returns.
 Mr. Denison said establishing that independence proved to be a critical factor.
 ''One of the key messages back from Canadians in the debate around those reforms was: We're prepared to take that tough medicine to put the Canada Pension Plan on a solid footing. But we want an assurance that our assets are going to be professionally managed and are not going to be co-mingled with other government funds.''
 Keeping the cash separate was relatively easy. The board is a stand-alone corporation owned by the federal government. Finding a way to keep political influence out of its decision making, however, involved more finesse.
 In the end, the investment board was given a novel system for the selection of its 12 directors. Its current board members and an outside search firm propose new board members to a separate nominating committee, which then submits a list to the federal and provincial finance ministers for approval. Directors are also required by law to have backgrounds in business and finance as well as board experience.
 Perhaps symbolically, the board's head office is in a high-rise a block from Bay Street, Toronto's financial district, rather than clustered with other national institutions in Ottawa. But its investment approach also means that it is something of an outsider to Bay Street as well as to the government bureaucracy.
 While most pension funds are mature and pay out more than they take in from contributions, the C.P.P. investment board does not have to turn over any benefit money for its first 25 years of operation.
 ''The realty with a mature fund is if they want to allocate a sizable portion of the fund to a new investment they've got to go somewhere else and sell down,'' Mr. Denison said. ''Because of the cash inflows we have, we aren't faced with those kinds of decisions. We can capture good investment opportunities without having to debate which investments we have to reduce. So it's a very good position for us to be in.''
 On major deals, the investment board joins with other pension funds like the Ontario Teachers. It also invests in or with major private equity funds including ones operated by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, Providence Equity, JPMorgan and Lehman Brothers.
 There have been few complaints about the investment fund's performance to date -- aside from some politicians in Alberta who have suggested that the province use its oil wealth to create its own pension plan. Over the last four years the investment board's return on investments has grown at an annualized rate of 11.52 percent, well beyond the 4.2 percent the government requires.
 Labor groups, however, have long pressed to have a union representative on the board. Despite that, Joel Harden, a pension analyst with the Canadian Labor Congress, said ''there is definitely an open dialogue'' among the fund's management, unions and other groups including environmentalists.
 A rare voice of caution about the fund is raised by Moshe A. Milevsky, a professor of finance at York University in Toronto and the executive director of the Individual Finance and Insurance Decisions Center, an industry-funded research group. Currently about 66.8 percent of the investment board's assets are in equity. While that percentage is likely to decline over time, Professor Milevsky said there remained a broader question.
 ''A lot of my academic colleagues ask whether a pension fund should have equity at all,'' he said. ''Clearly there is some probability, probably negligible, of markets not keeping up with the risk-free investment benchmarks. Who's backstopping the fund if something dramatically goes wrong over the next 25 years?'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Denison is the president and chief executive of the Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board. (Photo by Jim Ross for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); PENSION FUNDS (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (79%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLITICS (73%); DIVESTITURES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Telephones and Telecommunications; Privatization

COMPANY: BCE INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (82%) Bce Inc; Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board; Ontario Teachers Pension Plan; Bell Canada; Caisse De Depot Et Placement Du Quebec; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; Onex Corp

TICKER: BCE (TSX) (83%); BCE (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%)

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



187 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: A Big Decline as Investors Take Profits

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks plunged yesterday, slicing nearly 150 points off the Dow Jones industrial average after weak sales at many of the major retailers heightened concerns about a slowdown in consumer spending.
 The day's economic news, which also included a disquieting trade deficit figure, appeared to give investors the rationale they were looking for to cash in some of the market's recent gains.
Analysts have been saying that the surging stock market, which had pushed the Dow up more than 1,000 points since the beginning of March, was due for a pullback. 
 Wal-Mart Stores, J. C. Penney and Federated Department Stores all said business fell in April, hurt by rising gas prices. Though many retail stocks had respectable gains, the reports raised worries that retail sales data from the Commerce Department today would also disappoint, and suggested that the economy was slower than previously thought.
 On Wednesday, the Dow reached its 21st record close of the year after the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged and reiterated that while the economy had slowed, inflation remained the central bank's primary concern. 
 ''What the Federal Reserve said yesterday is that their principal focus is on inflation, and what retail sales said today is that their focus should be on the economy,'' said Hugh Johnson, chairman and chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisors. ''Things are not good out there in economyland.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 147.74 points, or 1.11 percent, to 13,215.13. It was the biggest point drop in the blue-chip index since a 242-point plunge on March 13.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 21.11 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,491.47, falling back below the 1,500 mark that it surpassed last week for the first time since September 2000.
 The Nasdaq composite index dipped 42.60 points, or 1.65 percent, to 2,533.74.
 Federated Department Stores fell $1.72, to $42.10; Wal-Mart Stores declined 18 cents, to $47.75; and J. C. Penney dropped $1.41, to $76.80. 
 The teenage clothing retailer Aeropostale, however, lifted its first-quarter outlook and its stock rose 6.9 percent, or $2.85, to $44.35.
 The United States trade deficit soared more than 10 percent, to $63.9 billion in March, its highest level in six months, driven up by crude oil imports.
 A Labor Department report that the number of laid-off workers seeking unemployment benefits fell last week failed to cheer investors, who had been expecting the decline.
 Today will be another data-focused day. The Labor Department will release its Producer Price Index, a gauge of inflation at the wholesale level that is expected to reflect high energy costs.
 Crude oil prices rebounded yesterday from a decline a day earlier, rising 26 cents, to $61.81 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Some weak earnings reports added to the negative mood on Wall Street. Whole Foods Market, the retailer of natural and organic food, said that slowing sales growth and rising costs hurt fiscal second-quarter profits, which missed Wall Street's expectations. Its shares dropped $4.65, to $41.15.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32, to 98 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.64 percent, from 4.66 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 30-year bonds: (000 omitted in dollar figures) High Price: 98.605 High Yield: 4.838 Low Yield: 4.770 Median Yield: 4.814 Total applied for: $11,621,512 Accepted: $6,763,977 Noncompetitive: $2,535 Interest set at: 4 3/4% The 30-year bonds mature Feb. 15, 2037. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (83%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); INTEREST RATES (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Finances; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%) Labor Department (US)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



188 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: The Making of Mayberry On the Outer Banks

BYLINE: By CHRIS DIXON

 BODY:
WHEN asked whether he and his wife had been accepted into the tightknit community of Manteo, N.C., Fountain Odom chuckled. 
 Shortly after buying a small, 100-year-old second home, Mr. Odom, a former state senator, and his wife, Carmen, secretary of the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, decided to cook up a huge batch of Brunswick stew for their new neighbors, using a complex old recipe that requires an open flame, a bottle of single-malt scotch and a full day's simmering in an old cast-iron pot.
The first cookout went so well that the next time he put out an invitation, two neighbors, longtime Manteo people, asked to chip in. ''They just worked all day long,'' he said. ''I was talking to some folks, and I said, 'These are just the nicest people.' 
 ''John Wilson, the mayor, asked who they were, and when I told him, he laughed and said: 'You don't understand. They're the two biggest Brunswick stew makers in the whole territory, and they wanted to know how you do it.' '' 
 Mr. Odom considered this bit of culinary espionage a small price to pay to make friends in Manteo, a village on Roanoke Island in the Outer Banks. It's a town that guards its traditions yet has a history of welcoming newcomers. 
 Manteo has attracted second-home owners and retirees by recasting itself from a dying fishing village into a slice of small-town America, a place that its most famous resident, Andy Griffith, says is more like Mayberry than anywhere else. But with the success, it has had to wrestle with issues of gentrification, affordable housing and zoning while facing a wave of building and rising real estate prices. 
 In the early 1980s, Manteo and students from the North Carolina State University School of Design developed a 20-year plan for the town. The plan was so successful that when a big new gated downtown condominium project was proposed a few years ago, the mayor and the town council again employed the school's expertise on a new 20-year plan for downtown and beyond. 
 In place of the condo development, one result of the new plan is a bustling construction site known as Marshes Light. When it is completed in a few years, the project will extend Manteo's grid of streets into a 21-acre development of green space, businesses, condos, houses, an inn and a marina. 
 The builder has agreed to follow architectural guidelines created through a collaboration of the town, the developer and the students. Known as the Manteo Way of Building, the guidelines draw on the many architectural details that give the place its small-town look. They might include intricately trimmed window frames, gabled roofs with hand-cut shingles and picket fences. Wraparound front porches, a minimum of eight feet deep, with posts in Tuscan, Craftsman or other styles might also be called for. 
 THE town requires that new neighborhoods have a mix of historic building styles and affordability. Developers must also follow a grid street pattern, rather than the cul-de-sacs found in many modern subdivisions. Sidewalks, parks and green space are also part of the plan.
 ''It was very intense,'' said David Stein, a former specialist in planning for North Carolina State, who with his wife, Achba, a former director of the university's school of landscape design, directed the students' work with the town and developer. ''We were trying to show the developer the possibility of developing this in scale with a sensitivity to the environment and an integration into the concept of the town. In the end, we gave the town enough information on how this could be done to protect the town and make the project profitable for the owners.'' 
 Manteo's evolution as a desirable getaway has been years in the making and has not been without setbacks. 
 John Wilson, a ninth-generation Roanoke Islander, has been focused on Manteo's revitalization since 1979, when he began a successful campaign for mayor at age 27. 
 When Mr. Wilson took office, the five-square-block downtown held a diverse cast of multigenerational families who waved from the oak-shaded porches, net-strewn fishermen's cottages, brick bungalows and Victorian mansions. But the waterfront was pocked with closed businesses. 
 Mr. Wilson said that around 1900 there were some 100 commercial establishments along the waterfront. ''When I got here in 1979, he added, ''there were 14. By the time the revitalization started in the early 80s, the number was down to 7.''
 Town leaders set out to remake the waterfront and create a site to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the arrival of English settlers -- an expedition organized in the 1580s by Sir Walter Raleigh. 
 In 1982, the North Carolina State design school responded to the invitation from Manteo to work on a 20-year plan. After interviewing nearly every resident of the historic village, the students proposed a boardwalk, a performing arts center, a marina and a $10 million complex with an inn and apartment-and-condo-topped shops. A representation of a 16th-century ship that might have been used by Raleigh's band would be moored near a maritime museum. 
 But by the celebration in 1984, only a small part of the plan had been realized. Manteo put on a presentable face for Princess Anne, who arrived to christen the ship, but none of the planned shops had opened and many residences had not been filled. In 1986, Mr. Wilson failed to win re-election. 
 Over the next two decades, however, nearly all Manteo's goals were reached -- a half-mile tourist-filled boardwalk now runs past a sailboat-filled marina, and a former sewage-treatment plant has been replaced by a replica of a small historic lighthouse. Mr. Wilson was again elected mayor in 2004. 
 Around that time, the huge condominium development was proposed for the waterfront next to downtown. Once again, the town called in a team from North Carolina State, and part of its effort resulted in the plan for Marshes Light.
 The developer, the Kitty Hawk Land Company, said it was difficult at times to work within the town's guidelines. ''We tried our very best to adopt a plan that was exactly what the town wanted,'' said Mickey Hayes, the company's president. ''They didn't force it on us, but said, 'This is what we want.' ''
 The new 20-year plan calls for roundabouts on busy streets and a new downtown campus for the College of the Albemarle. Marshes Light is following the guideline, and future large projects will have to use elements from Manteo Way of Building as well as dedicate 20 percent of the units for affordable housing. 
 ''Without affordable housing, we are at risk of losing full-timers,'' Mr. Wilson said on a walk around town. ''If second-home purchases continue at their current rate, we would have more second homers than full-timers. I'm not sure you are a real community if you get to that point.'' 
 There is not much available now for any type of buyer in the town's older area. As of late April, there was only one residential property for sale in all of old Manteo -- a four-bedroom, three-bathroom 1920 house with a guest cottage on Budleigh Street for $599,000. 
 In Marshes Light, Lee Whitley, the sales manager, said that the 22 lots were selling for $310,000 to $450,000. Nine of the 62 planned two- and three-bedroom condos with views of Shallowbag Bay are currently under contract. These are priced at $419,000 to $660,00. 
 Mr. Wilson said that the median price for a home in Manteo is around $383,000, but this did not include the historic district, where he said prices had ranged from $350,000 for a condominium to $1,050,000 for one on the waterfront. 
 Only large developers are required to follow the Manteo Way of Building guidelines, but, according to themayor, most individual homeowners follow them voluntarily. 
 Mr. Wilson stopped at the houses of William Ivey Long, a Tony-winning costume designer, and the Odoms to point out how homeowners adhere to the guidelines. He called Mr. Long's house ''a simple, T-shaped farmhouse set to collect the sea breeze.'' He pointed to the Odoms' house, which was having a sizable wing added. ''See how the trim and the porches match?'' he asked. 
 Down the street, he stopped at the edge of Marshes Light and climbed the deck of the century-old Holcombe farmhouse. It has been purchased by Libba Evans, secretary of the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, and her husband, Jim Lambie, a lawyer. They plan to spend a good part of their retirement there after making considerable renovations. 
 ''I love the fact that I can walk two blocks from my house and there's a guy running a soft-shell crab operation -- with live crabs -- from his backyard.'' Ms. Evans said ''It's wonderful to be in a town with family-owned shops and restaurants; where people know the local fishermen, the high and mighty and the people who take care of the high and mighty.'' 
 After completing the second 20-year plan, Mr. and Ms. Stein, were so impressed with Manteo that they paid $90,000 for a cottage there two years ago. Records are unclear, but Mr. Stein said there were some people in town who believed that the 1,100-square-foot rough-hewn wooden home may be a freedman's cottage dating from the Civil War. 
 The couple regularly visit from their home in Manhattan, where Ms. Stein is now director of landscape architecture for the City College of New York.
 ''I was hemming and hawing about buying the property and wondering that if there's an economic downturn, we might have trouble making ends meet,'' Mr. Stein said. ''John said, 'Well, then you move down here, and we'll all grow vegetables and share.' How could I refuse an invitation like that?'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 18, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Friday about Manteo, N.C., misspelled the given name of the former director of the school of landscape design at North Carolina State University who worked on in a recent 20-year plan for the town. She is Achva Stein, not Achba.

GRAPHIC: Photos: OLD-TIMEY -- Manteo on Roanoke Island tries to preserve a small-town feel. (Photo by Karen Tam for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 CONTROLLED -- Picket fences are encouraged in Manteo. The town has restored the waterfront area, top right, and an old farmhouse is being renovated, right, near Marshes Light, a new development. (Photographs by Karen Tam for The New York Times )(pg. F10) Map of North Carolina highlighting Manteo. (pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); HOME PRICES (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); ZONING (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (67%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ESPIONAGE (51%) Geographic Profiles; Housing

PERSON: Chris Dixon

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Manteo (Roanoke Island, Nc); Roanoke Island (Nc)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



189 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 16230 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: May 11 - May 17

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition. Theater Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 
 Previews and Openings 'CRAZY MARY' Previews start today. Opens on June 3. In A. R. Gurney's new play, Sigourney Weaver stars as a woman who discovers that her cousin, the title character, who is a patient in a psychiatric hospital, holds the keys to the family fortune (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. 'GASLIGHT' In previews; opens on Thursday. The always fascinating Brian Murray stars in Patrick Hamilton's thriller about a man who drives his wife insane (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. 'IN A DARK DARK HOUSE' Previews start on Wednesday. Opens on June 7. Neil LaBute's latest drama features Frederick Weller and Ron Livingston as hostile siblings sorting out a history of abuse. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200. 'PASSING STRANGE' In previews; opens on Monday. The Joe's Pub veteran and pop singer Stew tries his hand at musical theater, with a rock-theme score and a story about the journey of a black bohemian (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. 'PHALLACY' Previews start on Sunday. Opens on May 18. An art historian and a chemistry professor argue over the authenticity and value of a statue in this new drama by the scientist and playwright Carl Djerassi (1:30). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. 'TEN MILLION MILES' Previews start today. Opens on June 14. A new musical by the singer Patty Griffin and the playwright Keith Bunin (''The Busy World is Hushed'') is about a road trip from Florida to New York. Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200. Broadway 'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) * 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'CORAM BOY' Set in 18th-century England, this melodrama about imperiled orphans is big and broad but not particularly deep. With a cast of 40, an orchestra in the pit and bursts of choral music (Handel, mostly) decorating the proceedings, it is tastefully splashy and certainly impressive, but less emotionally engaging than you might hope (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood) 'CURTAINS' This musical comedy about a musical-comedy murder -- featuring songs by John Kander and Fred Ebb and a book by Rupert Holmes -- lies on the stage like a promisingly gaudy string of firecrackers, waiting in vain for a match. The good news is that David Hyde Pierce, playing a diffident Boston detective, steps into full-fledged Broadway stardom. Scott Ellis directs a talent-packed cast that includes Debra Monk and Karen Ziemba. (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'DEUCE' Back on Broadway for the first time in 25 years, Angela Lansbury is so vitally and indelibly present that she even gives flesh to this flimsy comedy. Terrence McNally's play, about the reunion of two former doubles partners (Ms. Lansbury and Marian Seldes), is a jerry-built shrine to enduring star power. Directed by Michael Blakemore (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'FROST/NIXON' Frank Langella turns in a truly titanic performance as Richard M. Nixon in Peter Morgan's briskly entertaining, if all-too-tidy, play about the former president's annihilating television interviews with the British talk show host David Frost (the excellent Michael Sheen). Michael Grandage directs with the momentum of a ticking-bomb thriller and the zing of a boulevard comedy (1:40). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'INHERIT THE WIND' Doug Hughes's wooden revival of this worthy war horse, based on the Scopes ''monkey'' trial of 1925, never musters much more velocity than a drugstore fan. Be grateful that the cast includes Christopher Plummer, in savory form as a Will Rogers of jurisprudence. An oddly subdued Brian Dennehy plays his pompous adversary (2:00). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'JOURNEY'S END' A splendid revival of R. C. Sherriff's 1928 drama of life in the trenches during World War I. Acutely staged (by David Grindley) and acted by a fine ensemble led by Hugh Dancy and Boyd Gaines, this production offers an exemplary presentation of that theatrical rarity, an uncompromising, clear-eyed play about war and the experience of day-to-day combat. An essential ticket (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'LEGALLY BLONDE' This nonstop sugar rush of a musical about a powder puff who finds her inner power-broker, based on the 2001 film, approximates the experience of eating a jumbo bag of Gummi Bears in one sitting. Flossing between songs is recommended (2:20). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'LOVEMUSIK' As Lotte Lenya and Kurt Weill, Donna Murphy and Michael Cerveris turn in stunningly shaded performances in what is, alas, a sluggish, mixed-up bio-musical. Scored with an eclectic sampler of Weill's songs, ''LoveMusik'' strives to achieve chilly distance and cozy intimacy in the same breath. Harold Prince directs; Alfred Uhry wrote the conventionally sentimental book (2:40). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'A MOON FOR THE MISBEGOTTEN' Kevin Spacey gives a bizarre, beat-the-clock performance, as lively as a frog on a hot plate, as James Tyrone in this off-kilter revival of Eugene O'Neill's last play. Mercifully, he does not block the view of Eve Best, who maps the contradictory levels of Tyrone's strapping love interest with clarity and intelligence (2:50). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) '110 IN THE SHADE' Is it possible for a performance to be too good? Audra McDonald brings such breadth of skill and depth of feeling to Lonny Price's lukewarm revival of this musical about a love-starved spinster that she threatens to burst the seams of this small, homey musical. She's an overwhelming presence in an underwhelming show (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) 'THE PIRATE QUEEN' How to river-dance your way to the bottom of the ocean, courtesy of the songwriters of ''Les Miserables'' (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'RADIO GOLF' The final -- and in dramatic terms, the weakest -- of August Wilson's magnificent 10-play cycle about the African-American experience, ''Radio Golf'' has the crackle of a bustling comedy. But this tale of getting and spending in the 1990s, directed by Kenny Leon, throbs with a lament for a lost time, a lost culture, a lost language (2:30). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) * 'TALK RADIO' The most lacerating portrait of a human meltdown this side of a Francis Bacon painting. Playing an abrasive radio talk show host with a God complex, the astounding Liev Schreiber seems to fill the air as inescapably as weather in Robert Falls's gut-grabbing revival of Eric Bogosian's 1987 play (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING' Joan Didion's arresting but ultimately frustrating adaptation of her best-selling memoir about being blindsided by grief, starring Vanessa Redgrave. The tension between style and emotional content that made the book such a stunner does not translate to the stage. The substance here is in the silences, when the focus shifts from words to Ms. Redgrave's wry, wounded face (1:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway 'ALL THE WRONG REASONS: A TRUE STORY OF NEO-NAZIS, DRUG SMUGGLING AND UNDYING LOVE' John Fugelsang's amiable solo show mixes memoir and stand-up comedy in a tale of family, faith and Roman Catholic guilt. Slight but engaging (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475. (Isherwood) 'AMERICAN FIESTA' The economist, consultant, preacher and playwright Steven Tomlinson makes his New York stage debut with a one-man show about how it was that he came to collect Fiestaware, the colorful china of the Depression years, which he deploys as a metaphor for just about everything. An astute observer of consumer obsession, Mr. Tomlinson ultimately subordinates much of his clever writing to a tepid and trite political message: that American civic life is a fractured bowl that needs to be put back together. American Fiesta is also about gay marriage, eBay and neuroscience, which is to say that it is about much too much (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. (Ginia Bellafante) 'BAD BLOOD (MALASANGRE)' A wife is offered a lucrative job in Texas; her husband moves with her from Puerto Rico but rails against the condition of being a Latino in the United States. Presented in Spanish and English on different nights, this play by Roberto Ramos Perea is full of ideas and anger, but the political fury of the husband is not, in the English version, completely borne out by his characterization, and you can see the charting of the play a little too clearly between the lines. (2:30). Puerto Rican Traveling Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 354-1293. (Anne Midgette) 'BE' A high-energy, low-content Israeli show that blends music, dance and sex appeal in the latest attempt to tap into the ''Stomp'' market (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100. (Jason Zinoman) 'BEAUTY ON THE VINE' Zak Berkman presents muddled politics and distorted anxieties in his quasi science-fiction play about the influence of plastic surgery on young women who start modeling themselves after a right-wing radio host. Adding to the atmosphere of hysteria is the inability of the actors to render a single subtle or nuanced moment (2:10). Harold Clurman Theater, 412 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Bellafante) 'BILL W. AND DR. BOB' This insightful new play about the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous subtly makes the claim that the recovery movement was born as a series of accidents. Patrick Husted is excellent as Bob Smith, Bill Wilson's partner in combating addictions (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Bellafante) 'BIOGRAPHY' A revival of S. N. Behrman's hoary 1932 comedy about a society portraitist and the men who keep trying to reign her in feels slight as a needlepoint pillow. As the play's supposedly beguiling heroine, Marion Froude, Carolyn McCormick never beguiles (2:15). The Pearl Theater, 80 St. Mark's Place, at First Avenue, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Bellafante) * 'BLACKBIRD' David Harrower's stunning new drama looks back at a sexual relationship -- between a 40-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl -- that transforms, cripples and paralyzes. Jeff Daniels and Alison Pill, both extraordinary, peel their characters down to their barest souls. Joe Mantello is the masterly director (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley) 'THE BRIG' Serious students of the stage will want to check out the Living Theater's first revival since 1963 of Kenneth H. Brown's docudrama about the soul-shredding grind of daily life in a Marine Corps prison, once again directed by the company co-founder Judith Malina. One of the most celebrated productions in the company's history, ''The Brig'' harks back to an era when theater was at the forefront of both political and artistic radicalism (2:00). Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, Lower East Side, www.livingtheatre.org. (Isherwood) 'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'GOD'S EAR' Jenny Schwartz's formally inventive and brilliantly performed drama about how the death of a child affects a family is more interested in language than in narrative (1:20). East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman) * 'IN THE HEIGHTS' Lin-Manuel Miranda's joyous songs paint a vibrant portrait of daily life in Washington Heights in this flawed but enjoyable show. Essentially a valentine to the barrio -- conflict of a violent or desperate kind is banished from the picture -- the musical contains a host of funny performances and brings the zesty sound of Latin pop to the stage. (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood) 'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Anita Gates) 'MOTHER LOAD' In her one-woman show on the perils of affluent motherhood, Amy Wilson derides the culture of obsessive child-rearing as she chronicles her submission to it. An affable presence onstage, Ms. Wilson nevertheless mines overly cliched territory: the nut allergies, the horrors of preschool admission, the importance of knowing two languages by the time you are 3. Posters on Urbanbaby.com will find themselves amusedly looking in the mirror. All other New Yorkers will find themselves wanting to move to Patagonia (1:15). Sage Theater, 711 Seventh Avenue, at 47th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Bellafante) 'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30).Westside Theater Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 'THE RECeiPT' A lost bar receipt provides a one-way ticket to bedlam in a clever and diverting show that mirrors the idiosyncrasies of modern life as two young archaeologists study a ''lost'' city and postulate on a day in the life of one of its inhabitants (1:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Wilborn Hampton) * 'SPALDING GRAY: STORIES LEFT TO TELL' A disarming collage of selections from the monologues and journals of Mr. Gray, the ultimate stand-up solipsist, who died in 2004. Directed by Lucy Sexton, and read by five performers, none of whom resemble Mr. Gray, with an affection that shrewdly stops short of hero worship (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) * 'WEST MOON STREET' Rob Urbinati's adaptation of Oscar Wilde's short story ''Lord Arthur Savile's Crime'' delightfully mines a comedy of manners, a meditation on premarital fear, out of a clever mystery on fate. The performances, one and all, are first-rate (2:00). Hudson Guild Theater, 441 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-3101. (Bellafante) Off Off Broadway 'OCTOPUS LOVE STORY' Gay marriage is a theme of this sitcomlike drama about a political protest turned unlikely romance (1:30). Center Stage, 48 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman) 'ON THE VERGE' An amusing revival of Eric Overmyer's play about three Victoria-era ladies who set out, armed with parasols and machetes, to explore a terra incognita. As they ''whack the bushes'' into virgin territory, they soon discover they are traveling into the future (2:00). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 777-4280). (Hampton) 'REALISM' and 'JUMP!' The stately Jean Cocteau Repertory (now known as the Exchange) gets a hipster makeover with two foul-mouthed and aggressive new provocations from Britain (1:30 each). Kirk Theater, 420 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman) 'THE SEA' This odd 1973 play by Edward Bond gets a vivid production by the Actors Company Theater, but be forewarned: this ain't American humor. It's the sly, incongruous British variety. A fatal shipwreck off the coast of an eclectic little village turns the inhabitants even weirder than they already are. One fellow is convinced that space aliens are behind the wreck (2:20). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Neil Genzlinger) Long-Running Shows 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' A pasteboard pastiche of 1920's musicals, as remembered by a witty show queen(1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'TARZAN' A writhing green blob with music (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Last Chance 'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Honor Moore) * 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA' Lincoln Center Theater's brave, gorgeous, sprawling and ultimately exhilarating production of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about intellectuals errant in 19th-century Russia. A testament to the seductive powers of narrative theater, directed with hot and cool canniness by Jack O'Brien and featuring a starry cast (Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Martha Plimpton, Josh Hamilton and Ethan Hawke, among others) in a tasty assortment of roles. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 'DENIAL' An engrossing and timely legal drama about a Holocaust denier being defended by a Jewish lawyer, this play examines the moral and ethical dilemma inherent in the First Amendment and asks how much sufferance can a free society give its crackpots and maintain its individual liberties (2:30). Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302; closes on Sunday. (Hampton) 'EXPOSED: EXPERIMENTS IN LOVE, SEX, DEATH AND ART' Annie Sprinkle and Elizabeth Stephens, partners in life and art, share memories of their colorful history together. Donning lab coats, they also engage the audience in some informal experiments intended to increase the store of love in the world. Sloppy but somewhat sweet (1:30). Collective: Unconscious, 279 Church Street, at White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101; closes tomorrow. (Isherwood) Movies Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. * 'AWAY FROM HER' (PG-13, 110 minutes) Sarah Polley's well-observed adaptation of a story by Alice Munro is a quiet tour de force about love and loss, anchored by fine performances by Gordon Pinsent and Julie Christie as a couple dealing with the loss of memory and memories of past hurt. (A. O. Scott) 'Blades of Glory' (PG-13, 93 minutes) In this fast, light, frequently funny comedy about a male figure-skating team, Will Ferrell and Jon Heder stake an early claim to being the comedy couple of the year. (Stephen Holden) * 'BRAND UPON THE BRAIN' (No rating, 96 minutes) A baroque entertainment with one foot in silent cinema and the other gingerly toeing the sound waves, Guy Maddin's latest centers on a man who, in visiting the now-emptied foundling home, journeys deep into his childhood. It's wild! It's weird! It's strangely touching and a total must see! (Manohla Dargis) THE CONDEMNED' (R, 100 minutes) This simple-minded vehicle for the wrestling star Steve Austin follows a bunch of muscle-bound lowlifes as they fight to the death for the benefit of an Internet reality show. Leaden and inept, the movie fails to deliver even the action goods, presenting every fight scene in such quaking, extreme close-up that it's difficult to tell who's pummeling whom. Fortunately, the language of pain is universal. (Jeannette Catsoulis) * 'DAY NIGHT DAY NIGHT' (No rating, 94 minutes) For most of its 94 minutes, this gripping but evasive portrait of an unidentified 19-year-old terrorist undertaking a suicide bombing mission in Times Square focuses on the face of its star, Luisa Williams. (Holden) * 'DIGGERS' (R, 90 minutes) This minutely observed period piece, set in 1976, about clam diggers on the south shore of Long Island, has the brave, mournful tone of a Springsteen song (''My Hometown,'' say) set in Billy Joel territory. ( Holden) 'DISTURBIA' (PG-13, 104 minutes) A pleasant, scary, well-directed variation on the killer-next-door theme, with the engaging Shia LeBeouf as Kale, a young man who turns house arrest into an occasion for voyeurism and crime-fighting. (Scott) * 'ELECTION' (No rating, 100 minutes, in Cantonese) This intricate gangster entertainment, the first episode in a two-part sequence from the prolific Hong Kong action maestro Johnnie To, offers some acute lessons in the pitfalls of democracy. Also a feast of fighting, humor and fine acting, in particular from Simon Yaw, who plays a soft-spoken, businesslike candidate for chairman of Hong Kong's oldest criminal organization. (Scott) 'FRACTURE' (R, 111 minutes) A glib entertainment that offers up the spectacle of that crafty scene-stealer Anthony Hopkins mixing it up with that equally cunning screen-nibbler Ryan Gosling. (Dargis) * 'THE HOAX' (R, 115 minutes) A first-rate performance by Richard Gere drives this true story of Clifford Irving (Mr. Gere), who claimed to be the authorized biographer of Howard Hughes. Shadowed by the paranoia of its period (the early '70s), this movie, crisply directed by Lasse Hallstrom from an excellent script by William Weaver, is less a morality play than an entertaining portrait of a literary gambler. (Scott) * 'HOT FUZZ' (R, 121 minutes) A British parody of Hollywood-style action flicks from the wits behind ''Shaun of the Dead.'' Think of it as ''The Full Monty'' blown to smithereens. (Dargis) 'IN THE LAND OF WOMEN' (PG-13, 98 minutes) This meek, mopey comedy is the film equivalent of a sensitive emo band with one foot in alternative rock and the other in the squishy pop mainstream. The movie would like to think of itself as a softer, fuzzier ''Garden State.'' (Holden) 'THE INVISIBLE' (PG-13, 102 minutes) This supremely silly retread of the 2002 Swedish film ''Den Osynlige'' proves it's tough to be in love and in limbo at one and the same time. When a rich-yet-troubled teenager (Justin Chatwin) crosses paths with a violently disturbed classmate (Margarita Levieva), we learn that there's nothing quite like a near-death experience to repair those stubborn emotional wounds. (Catsoulis) * 'KILLER OF SHEEP' (No rating, 83 minutes) Largely hidden from view for three decades, Charles Burnett's lyrical film about a working-class family living in a broken-down home in a bombed-out stretch of Los Angeles is an American masterpiece. (Dargis) 'LUCKY YOU' (PG-13, 124 minutes) Eric Bana plays a poker player with daddy issues (Robert Duvall is his dad), and Drew Barrymore is an aspiring singer who catches his eye in this tepid Las Vegas romance. It's not terrible, just content to break even. (Scott) 'MEET THE ROBINSONS' (G, 93 minutes) Actually, if you see them coming, run in the other direction. (Scott) 'NEXT' (PG-13, 96 minutes) Nicolas Cage plays a guy who can see into the future in this crummy adaptation of a nifty Philip K. Dick story. Too bad Mr. Cage couldn't tap into those same powers to save himself from another bad role. (Dargis) 'PARIS JE T'AIME' (R, 120 minutes, in French and English) ''Paris Je T'Aime,'' a mosaic of 18 miniatures, each set in a different location in the City of Light, is a cinematic tasting menu consisting entirely of amuse-bouches. After two hours of such tidbits, the palate is sated. But if there is no need for a main course, you still leave feeling vaguely disappointed at not being served one. (Holden) 'PERFECT STRANGER' (R, 109 minutes) There is enough of a grain of truth in this noirish, paranoid thriller set in the New York media world that even after it lurches from the farfetched into the preposterous, the movie leaves a clammy residue of unease. (Holden) * 'PRIVATE FEARS IN PUBLIC PLACES' (No rating, 120 minutes, in French) A film from the venerable French auteur Alain Resnais about love and cinematic spaces, elegant camera moves and six heavenly bodies as seen through a mighty telescope. (Dargis) * 'RED ROAD' (No rating, 113 minutes) Andrea Arnold's first feature falls into melodrama and implausibility at the end, but along the way it is a remarkably assured and complex piece of work, anchored by the director's formal control and by Jackie Dick's quietly heartbreaking performance as a Glasgow video-surveillance officer with an unhappy past. (Scott) 'SPIDER-MAN 3' (PG-13, 139 minutes) Please, God, make this be the last one. (Dargis) 'TA RA RUM PUM' (No rating, 156 minutes, in English and Hindi) This Bollywood movie about a race car driver (the versatile Saif Ali Khan) takes place in New York, but that doesn't stop it from being a classic example of Bollywood family values. Here, all the city's a stage set, perfect for ''Fame''-meets-''West Side Story'' production numbers. (Rachel Saltz) '300' (R, 116 minutes) Greeks versus Persians in the big rumble at Thermopylae, via Frank Miller's graphic novel. As dumb as they get. (Scott) 'THE TREATMENT' (No rating, 86 minutes) Oren Rydavsky's adaptation of the Daniel Menaker novel about love and psychoanalysis in New York has its heart and head in the right place, but not much else, including its sympathetic stars, Chris Eigeman, Famke Janssen and Ian Holm. (Dargis) * 'TRIAD ELECTION' (No rating, 93 minutes, in Cantonese) The surfaces gleam as luxuriously in Johnnie To's exemplary gangster thriller ''Triad Election'' as those in a similarly slicked-up Hollywood film, but the blood on the floor here seems stickier, more liable to stain. A brutal look at the shadows darkening the Hong Kong triads, the film picks up the narrative line first coiled and kinked in Mr. To's companion thriller, ''Election.'' (Dargis) 'VACANCY' (R, 80 minutes) This banal horror retread involves a couple of critters (Luke Wilson, Kate Beckinsale) flailing inside a sticky trap for what is, in effect, the big-screen equivalent of a roach motel. (Dargis) * 'THE VALET' (PG-13, 85 minutes, in French) If you love to hate the superrich, this delectable comedy, in which the great French actor Daniel Auteuil portrays a piggy billionaire industrialist facing his comeuppance, is a sinfully delicious bonbon, a classic French farce with modern touches. (Holden) * 'WAITRESS' (PG-13, 104 minutes) Keri Russell is a small-town waitress in a bad marriage who finds solace in pie-baking and adultery in Adrienne Shelly's wry and winning final feature. (Scott) * 'YEAR OF THE DOG' (PG-13, 97 minutes) Mike White's touching comedy about a woman who loses a dog and finds herself is funny ha-ha but firmly in touch with its downer side, which means that it's also funny in a kind of existential way. Molly Shannon stars alongside a menagerie of howling scene-stealers. (Dargis) 'ZOO' (No rating, 76 minutes) Robinson Devor's heavily reconstructed documentary is, to a large extent, about the rhetorical uses of beauty. It is, rather more coyly, also about a man who died after having sex with a stallion. (Dargis) Film Series and Revivals GENERATION GARREL (Today through Thursday) In France, Philippe Garrel occupies a position in the avant-garde somewhere between John Cassavetes (for his love of garrulous actors and messy dramatic situations) and Andy Warhol (for his love-hate relationship with glamour and stardom). This series widens the focus to include two other members of the Garrel family: his father, Maurice, and his son Louis, both actors. The 23-year-old Louis opens the program tonight with a sneak preview of ''Dans Paris,'' the new film by the promising young director Christophe Honore (whose 2004 ''Ma Mere,'' also with Louis, plays on Sunday). Tomorrow's schedule includes Philippe's 2005 ''Regular Lovers,'' a film about the depressing aftermath of the social unrest of 1968. On Wednesday the 84-year-old Maurice takes center stage for Philippe's 1983 ''Liberte, la nuit,'' in which he stars as an aging activist caught up in the protests surrounding the Algerian war. And on Thursday the whole family (including Louis's mother, the actress Brigitte Sy) turns up in ''Emergency Kisses'' (1988), an autobiographical film about a director (Philippe) making an autobiographical film. BAMcinematek, BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $10. (Dave Kehr) 10 LATIN AMERICAN & SPANISH FILMS FROM THE LAST 100 YEARS (Tonight through Thursday) As part of the High Line Festival, the Quad Cinema will screen movies by Spanish and Latin American filmmakers. The series opens at 7:30 tonight with ''El Automovil Gris'' (1919), a Mexican crime film by Enrique Rosas Priego and presented here by the Mexican theater company El Teatro de Ciertos Habitantes. The 10 o'clock show is Alberto Gout's entertaining 1949 ''Aventurera,'' a lurid ''cabaretera'' melodrama about a girl from the sticks (Ninon Sevilla) kidnapped by human traffickers. Other highlights include, tomorrow, Tomas Gutierrez Alea's ''Memorias del Subdesarrollo'' (1968), one of the finest products of Cuban cinema, and, on Tuesday, Luis Bunuel's 1954 English-language, made-in-Mexico ''Robinson Crusoe'' and Victor Erice's dark and lyrical 1973 Spanish film about the terrors of childhood, ''El Espiritu de la Colmena.'' Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 255-8800, highlinefestival.com; $12; $35 for ''El Automovil Gris.'' (Kehr) Pop Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music. THE ALBUM LEAF, YOUNG GALAXY (Tomorrow and Sunday) Jimmy LaValle, one of the guitarists in the San Diego band Tristeza, creates peaceful, glittering galaxies of electronics and soft guitar in his mostly instrumental side project, the Album Leaf. For a group called a duo, Montreal's Young Galaxy had an awful lot of people onstage at its last New York appearance -- the better to help make that languorous wash of guitars and sleepy vocals. With Belong. Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $15. Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Ben Sisario) LOS AMIGOS INVISIBLES (Tomorrow) Los Amigos Invisibles, from Venezuela, latch on to dance grooves from the last three decades -- James Brown funk, the stolid thump of house music, mid-1960s boogaloo, '70s Miami disco, Santana's mambo-rock, even some rap -- while the lyrics (in Spanish) are come-ons somewhere between charm and smarm. With DJ Afro and Todosantos. At 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $22. (Jon Pareles) LAURIE ANDERSON (Thursday) Ms. Anderson's entrancing performances weave coolly surrealistic songs and reflective monologues with a witty, seamless dream logic. She unveils a new piece as part of David Bowie's High Line Festival. At 7:30 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com or highlinefestival.com; $37. (Sisario) * ARCTIC MONKEYS (Tuesday) Emerging from Sheffield, England, a couple of years ago as an unstoppable teenage indie-rock machine, Arctic Monkeys played perfect, cutting post-punk riffs and sang of night-life exhaustion with a jadedness beyond their years. Now, with the members barely into their 20s, the band has returned with ''Favourite Worst Nightmare'' (Domino), and thankfully not much has changed: danceable, slashing grooves and sneered lyrics about the morning-after blahs. With Be Your Own Pet. At 6:30 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; sold out. (Sisario) ANDREW BIRD (Thursday) A talented multi-instrumentalist, Mr. Bird shows off his fiddle- and guitar-playing in wistful, fantastical folk reveries. But his most impressive technique is not on fiddle or guitar, nor on the electronic effects that he uses to make the music breathe; it's his dexterous, expressive whistling, which floats high above in eerily beautiful tones. With Joan as Policewoman. At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario) BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday and Monday) Elegant, witty and touching, this classically trained jazz pianist and singer, now 82, is in her prime: the female counterpart of Bobby Short. Sunday at 2 p.m., Monday at 8 p.m., Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $58 on Sunday, with brunch at noon; $40 on Monday, with a $20 minimum. (Stephen Holden) * ELVIS COSTELLO AND THE IMPOSTORS (Wednesday) Jazz and classical pursuits may command more and more of his time these days, but Mr. Costello is still at his best leading his band through a set of taut, squirmy soul-rock. At 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; sold out. (Sisario) DAN DEACON (Tomorrow) This Baltimore partymeister has become an underground celebrity playing the kind of music Max Headroom might have made, with low-tech synthesizers pumping manic, smarmy melodies at high volume and accelerated tempo. Channeled through Mr. Deacon's antic stage persona, it all becomes house-rocking sensory overload. With Ponytail, Meneguar and Lions and Tigers. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $8 in advance, $10 at the door. (Sisario) * DEERHOOF (Thursday) With scratchy guitars set against Satomi Matsuzaki's nursery rhyme vocals, and songs that zip through multiple personality changes, Deerhoof, from San Francisco, makes jarringly experimental art-pop that somehow remains inviting and sweet. The band plays as part of the High Line Festival with Dirty Projectors, who build elaborate ''glitch operas'' with stark pluckings of strings and precise, ecstatic harmonies; and Robert Stillman's Horses. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, highlinefestival.com; $16.50. (Sisario) ELECTRELANE (Tuesday) The women of this British quartet have found a middle ground between Stereolab's ethereal drone and the earthy twee-pop of groups like the Pastels. ''No Shouts, No Calls'' (Too Pure), their new album, has a rock 'n' roll pulse even at its most tranquil. With Tender Forever and the Blow. At 9 p.m., Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $15. (Sisario) TIM FINN (Tomorrow) When Mr. Finn sings about ''the warm Pacific sun,'' he's talking about good times not in California but in New Zealand, where he has been a star since his days in the new wave band Split Enz (and, on and off, in Crowded House with his brother Neil). On his latest album, ''Imaginary Kingdom'' (Manhattan), he offers a familiar New World optimism over Beatlesesque melodies, shaking his head at naysayers in history and romance: ''When they say it can't be done, we have to prove them wrong.'' He plays a rare solo show at Joe's Pub. At 7:30 p.m., 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $25. (Sisario) * DANIEL JOHNSTON, BANG ON A CAN ALL-STARS, THE LEGENDARY STARDUST COWBOY (Wednesday) In a feat of inspired programming, David Bowie has put together this bill for his High Line Festival, with some of the brainiest of the New York avant-garde (Bang on a Can All-Stars) meeting two of Texas's most extreme outsider musicians. Daniel Johnston writes stirringly candid songs that sound as if they could be the dreams or nightmares of John Lennon. The Legendary Stardust Cowboy has earned an indelible rock footnote: his wild 1968 song ''Paralyzed'' inspired Mr. Bowie to create his glam-era alter ego Ziggy Stardust. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com or highlinefestival.com; sold out. Mr. Johnston also plays Tuesday at 8 p.m. at Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505, warsawconcerts.com; $18. The Legendary Stardust Cowboy plays Thursday at 9 p.m. at Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $10. (Sisario) ANGELIQUE KIDJO (Wednesday) On her new album, ''Djin Djin'' (Razor & Tie), this Beninese singer welcomes a handful of guest stars -- Josh Groban, Joss Stone and Alicia Keys, among others -- into the orbit of her humanist Afro-pop. But the album's best moments come when Ms. Kidjo engages with a strong supporting cast, as she will here. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $32 in advance, $36 at the door. (Nate Chinen) * KIKI AND HERB (Sunday and Thursday) A few years ago this brilliantly perverse cabaret duo played their farewell show at Carnegie Hall. Then came a run on Broadway. And the inimitable Christmas show. After playing their regular Sunday night Joe's Pub gig this week, Kiki and Herb go to the Knitting Factory on Thursday to record a new DVD. Sunday at 11:30 p.m., 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20, Thursday at 8 p.m., 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; $20. (Sisario) LCD SOUNDSYSTEM (Tomorrow and Monday) James Murphy's punk-edged disco in LCD Soundsystem -- sharp and sexy but unapologetically silly, retro but smartly innovative -- has roots across the dance-rock map but is unmistakably a product of New York: ''Those of you who still think we're from England/We're not,'' he sings with adenoidal wryness on the band's brilliant new album, ''Sound of Silver'' (Capitol). With Yacht. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-1880, clubstudiob.com; $20. Monday at 7:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario) * STEPHEN MARLEY (Tonight) It sometimes seems as if there is a paratrooper brigade of young Marleys arriving on the reggae and pop scenes: first there was Ziggy and others in the Melody Makers, then Damian, then Ky-Mani and Julian. But Stephen Marley, 35, who rapped as a teenager on early Melody Makers songs, has the distinction of being a strong songwriter and a Grammy-winning producer. He has just released his debut album, ''Mind Control'' (Universal Republic), which features tales of incarceration over marijuana and lots of guest spots by -- who else? -- other Marleys. This show will feature his younger brother Damian (a k a Junior Gong), for whom he produced the hit ''Welcome to Jamrock.'' At 9, Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; sold out. (Sisario) * MASTODON, AGAINST ME!, CURSIVE (Thursday) Until Mastodon released ''Leviathan'' three years ago, the world lacked an extreme-metal album based on ''Moby-Dick''; it's appropriately dense and exhilarating and fully attentive to every slashing sonic detail, as is this Atlanta band's latest, ''Blood Mountain.'' Also on this unusual but intriguing bill: Against Me!, punk eccentrics from Gainesville, Fla., who specialize in roaring, galloping folk songs; and Cursive, a band from Omaha with one foot in emo and the other in exuberant chamber-pop. At 6:15 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, roselandballroom.com; $25 in advance, $28 at the door. (Sisario) NO FUN FEST (Thursday) Now something of a spring tradition, this four-day festival of noise-rock -- and any other kind of avant-garde music, as long as it's clamorous and loud -- begins on Thursday with Hair Police, from the fertile Michigan scene; Yoshimi of the Boredoms with Kim Gordon of Sonic Youth; Pain Jerk; Hive Mind and Damion Romero; Lambsbread; Evil Moisture; Crumbling; and Orphan Fairytale. Take earplugs. At 7 p.m., the Hook, 18 Commerce Street, near Richards Street, Red Hook, Brooklyn, (718) 797-3007, thehookmusic.com or nofunfest.com; $18. (Sisario) JENNIFER O'CONNOR (Wednesday) Ms. O'Connor's portraits of the lovelorn and depressed, sung over light strums of guitar with the guileless vulnerability of a 2 a.m. phone confession, are dry but not unsympathetic: ''Maybe she's on her lunch break thinking of you.'' She has a Wednesday residency this month at the Living Room. At 11 p.m., 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; $8. (Sisario) * JOHN PIZZARELLI AND JESSICA MOLASKEY (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday) These married musicians have been called ''the Nick and Nora of cabaret,'' a sobriquet that only begins to describe their upbeat sophistication. They fuse two distantly related musical worlds into a larger whole in which Stephen Sondheim, Dave Frishberg, Paul Simon, and Lambert, Hendricks and Ross join hands. (Through May 26.) At 8:45, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 10:45, Cafe Carlyle, at the Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $75 and $125 Tuesday through Thursday; $85 tonight and tomorrow. (Holden) * DUNCAN SHEIK (Tuesday) Broadway gigs are usually not important creative turning points for pop songwriters. But ''Spring Awakening'' was the best thing to happen to Mr. Sheik's music in years, giving his silken, phlegmatic songs a youthful and erotic kick. For this show at the Concert Hall at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, he is to play ''Spring Awakening'' material and other songs. At 8 p.m., 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, concertstonight.com; $35. (Sisario) SLOAN (Tonight) Like modern metafictions, Sloan's pop-rock songs twist inward on themselves. With their winsome tunes and neo-Beatles intricacies, they are not just about unrequited yearnings, but also about the process of writing pop songs about unrequited yearnings. They're rarely so clever that their heart doesn't come through. With Small Sins. At 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $20. (Pareles) SOUTHERN CULTURE ON THE SKIDS (Wednesday) This veteran three-piece from North Carolina knows just how much to poke fun at chicken-fried, backwoods rockabilly: a lot, but not too much to get in the way of some finger-licking twangy guitar. Don't let the band leave without playing its barnstorming ode to Santo, the vigilante Mexican wrestler. With the Dansettes and Jule Brown. At 7:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $15 in advance, $17 at the door. (Sisario) * SPANISH HARLEM ORCHESTRA (Wednesday) Anyone who's heard a salsa band in New York City has probably seen some of the members of this group: they're the virtuosic journeymen who are one of New York's great musical resources. As the Spanish Harlem Orchestra, they reclaim salsa classics under the direction of the keyboardist Oscar Hernandez, who has worked with Ruben Blades and Paul Simon. Mr. Simon is to appear as a guest on Wednesday. At 10 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $20. (Pareles) TO LIVE AND SHAVE IN L.A., ROCK/USADOWN (Monday) The line between metal-on-metal harshness and abstract musique concrete is deliberately blurred in the music of To Live and Shave in L.A., a long-running collective led by Tom Smith. Rock/USAdown is a duo of Dave Unger and Joe Johnson, formerly of the Washington noise-rock band Love 666. They've kept the skronk going with their new collaboration, ''This Is the New American National Anthem'' (Feedback), a 47-minute wave of sonic chaos that now and then reflects bits of ''The Star-Spangled Banner.'' At 8:30 p.m., Club Midway, 25 Avenue B, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 253-2595, clubmidway.com; $8 in advance, $10 at the door. Rock/USAdown also plays on Tuesday at 7 p.m., with Bad Girlfriend and Ghost Factor, at the Hook, 18 Commerce Street, near Richards Street, Red Hook, Brooklyn, (718) 797-3007, thehookmusic.com; $8. (Sisario) LAURA VEIRS (Wednesday) Ms. Veirs's ballads, with electronics twinkling above soft acoustic guitars like stars in a perfect night sky, cast romance as both intimate contact and cosmic event. With Charles Bissell and Lake. At 7 p.m., Blender Theater at Gramercy, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171; $14 in advance, $16 at the door. (Sisario) DALE WATSON (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Watson, from Austin, Tex., sings old-fashioned honky-tonk songs that look back to Buck Owens and Merle Haggard, with fiddle and pedal steel guitar to ease the music onto the dance floor. At 10 p.m., Rodeo Bar, 375 Third Avenue, at 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 683-6500, rodeobar.com; no cover. (Pareles) Jazz Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music. * MUHAL RICHARD ABRAMS (Tonight) In addition to being a venerable pianist and composer, Mr. Abrams is one of the original architects of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians. He performs tonight in a duo setting, with the guitarist Brandon Ross, and with a dynamic quartet featuring Aaron Stewart on tenor saxophone, Brad Jones on bass and Tyshawn Sorey on drums. At 8, Community Church of New York, 40 East 35th Street, Manhattan, (212) 683-4988, aacm-newyork.com; $25. (Nate Chinen) PETER APFELBAUM AND NEW YORK HIEROGLYPHICS (Tonight) Peter Apfelbaum, a multireedist and pianist, has been celebrating the 30th anniversary of this adventurous, African-inspired band, with collaborators including Abdoulaye Diabate on kora and Charles Burnham on violin. At 8, Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, near Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 614-0505, bowerypoetry.com; cover, $15, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) LUDOVIC BEIER QUARTET (Tuesday) Ludovic Beier is a French accordionist with a sterling reputation; among the guests lined up to join his quartet for this engagement are the singer Hilary Kole, the guitarist Romero Lubambo and the saxophonist Joel Frahm. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen) MICHAEL BLAKE'S HELLBENT (Tuesday) ''Right Before Your Very Ears'' (Clean Feed), Mr. Blake's most recent album, showcases his tenor saxophone in a rough-hewn but focused trio setting. Here he enlists musicians who are different from those on the album -- Steven Bernstein on trumpet, Marcus Rojas on tuba and G. Calvin Weston on drums -- but seeks a similar fire. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10 with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) * RAN BLAKE (Thursday) Mr. Blake is a pianist with an attraction to cinematic imagery and spooky silence, as he confirms on his fine recent album ''All That Is Tied'' (Tompkins Square). As on the album, he plays unaccompanied here. At 8 p.m., Center for Improvisational Music, 295 Douglass Street, near Third Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (212) 631-5882, schoolforimprov.org; admission, $15; $10 for students. (Chinen) JOE CHAMBERS'S OUTLAW BAND (Tonight and tomorrow night) Joe Chambers, a veteran drummer and vibraphonist with a gliding sense of swing, leads a group with Javon Jackson on tenor saxophone, Misha Tsiganov on piano, Dwayne Burno on bass and Steve Berrios on percussion. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen) * ALICE COLTRANE ASCENSION CEREMONY (Thursday) The death of the keyboardist Alice Coltrane in January came a shock to the jazz world, and to the California ashram that she established. This ceremonial tribute, timed to coincide with Ascension Day, will feature performances by the pianist Geri Allen; the bassists Reggie Workman and Charlie Haden; and the drummers Roy Haynes, Rashied Ali and Jack DeJohnette. Ms. Coltrane's son Ravi Coltrane, a saxophonist, will also appear, among others. At 7:30 p.m., Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (909) 744-0704 or (201) 928-0513; free. (Chinen) PATRICK CORNELIUS QUARTET (Sunday) The alto and soprano saxophonist Patrick Cornelius convenes a strong supporting cast from within his age group: Mike Moreno, guitarist; Miro Sprague, pianist; Alan Hampton, bassist; and Kendrick Scott, drummer. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) * PAQUITO D'RIVERA QUINTET (Wednesday and Thursday) ''Funk Tango'' may not be the most promising word pairing in the English language, but it makes for an engaging new album by the Cuban-born alto saxophonist and clarinetist Paquito D'Rivera, who has excellent sidemen in the Argentine trumpeter Diego Urcola and the Israeli pianist Alon Yavnai. (Through May 19.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) EITHER/ORCHESTRA (Thursday) This 10-piece ensemble, based in Boston and led by the tenor saxophonist Russ Gershon, pursues a boisterous polyphony informed by both the visionary sweep of Sun Ra and the more terrestrial realm of Ethiopian pop. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) SAMMY FIGUEROA AND THE LATIN JAZZ EXPLOSION (Monday) On his new album, ''The Magician'' (Savant), the percussionist Sammy Figueroa advances a bright ideal of Latin jazz. He leads a group that includes Lew Soloff on trumpet, John Michalak on flute and saxophones, and Robbie Ameen on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $15. (Chinen) ANAT FORT TRIO (Thursday) Anat Fort is a prepossessing pianist with an auspicious debut on the ECM label. She performs her own music with her working trio, which includes the drummer Roland Schneider and the bassist Gary Wang. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10 with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) ERIK FRIEDLANDER (Thursday) Mr. Friedlander is a superb jazz cellist whose technique extends to pizzicato fingerpicking. Here he previews material from his forthcoming album ''Block Ice & Propane,'' which reaches for a contemporary synthesis of American roots music. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) FRED FRITH (Sunday and Tuesday) The exploratory tastes of the guitarist Fred Frith are evident throughout this month's calendar at the Stone, most obviously on the nights when he performs with notables like the composer and accordionist Pauline Oliveros (Sunday at 8), the alto saxophonist John Zorn (Tuesday at 8) and the harpist Zeena Parkins (Tuesday at 10). At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; $10; $20 on Tuesday at 8. (Chinen) BEN GERSTEIN'S THE UP/EIVIND OPSVIK'S OVERSEAS (Wednesday) The trombonist Ben Gerstein conceived the Up as an open forum for improvisers like the tenor saxophonist Jonathan Moritz, the bassist Eivind Opsvik and the drummer John McLellan. Mr. Opsvik's band Overseas, which features Tony Malaby on tenor saxophone, Jacob Sacks on Wurlitzer piano and Kenny Wolleson on drums, heeds more of a compositional framework. At 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10 per set. (Chinen) * A GREAT NIGHT IN HARLEM (Thursday) The Jazz Foundation of America, a nonprofit musician-aid organization, stocks this edition of its annual gala with illustrious veterans like the pianist Hank Jones, the saxophonists Frank Wess and Jimmy Heath, and the clarinetist Dr. Michael White and his Original Liberty Jazz Band; the celebrity hosts will be Bill Cosby and Danny Glover. At 8 p.m., Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 245-3999, jazzfoundation.org; $50 to $250 for the concert, $500 to $1500 for V.I.P. packages. (Chinen) JOEL HARRISON AND HARBOR (Wednesday) ''Harbor'' (HighNote), the new album by the guitarist Joel Harrison, imagines a fascinating modern fusion of Western and Eastern tonalities. Revisiting that music here, Mr. Harrison enlists another guitarist, Brad Shepik, along with the saxophonist David Binney, the bassist Stephan Crump and a pair of drummers, Jordan Perlson and Jamey Haddad. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen) KAMIKAZE GROUND CREW (Sunday) The trumpeter Steven Bernstein and the multireedist Peter Apfelbaum preside over this outfit, with contributions from Gina Leishman and Doug Wieselman on saxophones, Art Baron on trombone, Marcus Rojas on tuba and Kenny Wollesen on drums. At 8 p.m., Cutting Room, 19 West 24th Street, Manhattan, (212) 691-1900, thecuttingroomnyc.com; cover, $10; $12 at the door. (Chinen) CHRIS LIGHTCAP'S BIGMOUTH (Tomorrow) This ensemble employs compositional forms as a springboard; Chris Lightcap, a bassist, has creative colleagues in the tenor saxophonists Tony Malaby and Matt Renzi, the pianist James Carney and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) JOE LOCKE QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Joe Locke's vibraphone-playing expands on the legacy of Milt Jackson and Bobby Hutcherson, but he has his own expressive style. He also knows how to convene good rhythm sections like this one, with Jonathan Kreisberg on guitar, Jay Anderson on bass and Joe La Barbera on drums. At 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen) JUNIOR MANCE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Mance is a veteran pianist with tendencies toward both bebop and blues, as he is likely to demonstrate here with a trio. At 8, 10 and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) THE MUSIC OF OLU DARA (Tonight) Before he was known as the father of the rapper Nas, Olu Dara was a trumpeter, guitarist and singer who infused New York avant-gardism with Mississippi twang. His music is the chief focus of this performance, with Bob Stewart on tuba, Craig Harris on saxophones and Bruce Purse on trumpet, among others. At 7, Aronow Theater, City College of New York, 135th Street at Convent Avenue, Hamilton Heights, (718) 884-5495, multiculturalmusic.org; $10. (Chinen) ARTURO O'FARRILL TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Arturo O'Farrill, the pianist and Latin bandleader, leads a rhythmically insistent working trio with Alex Blake on bass and Jaime Affoumado on drums. At 9:15, 10:40 and midnight, Puppets Jazz Bar, 294 Fifth Avenue, between First and Second Streets, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 499-2627, puppetsjazz.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) BOBBY PREVITE (Wednesday) Mr. Previte, an adventurous and often effervescent drummer, teams up with musicians similarly inclined to pair aggressive experimentation with a rock-hard sense of groove: the tenor saxophonist Ellery Eskelin, the vibraphonist Bill Ware and the bassist Brad Jones. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) RENEE ROSNES QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) The articulate pianist Renee Rosnes leads a post-bop band composed of the alto and soprano saxophonist Steve Wilson, the bassist Peter Washington and the drummer Bill Stewart. (Through May 20.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) * JENNY SCHEINMAN (Monday) Ms. Scheinman is that rare jazz violinist who embraces her instrument's folksier side without making concessions to genre. The impressive group she leads here, in preparation for a recording session, includes the guitarist Bill Frisell, the pianist Jason Moran, the clarinetist Doug Weiselman and the cornetist Ron Miles. At 7 and 8:30 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $20 to $30 per set. (Chinen) KENDRA SHANK (Thursday) Ms. Shank interprets jazz and pop liberally, but with an abiding respect for melody. On her recent album ''A Spirit Free: Abbey Lincoln Songbook'' (Challenge), she pays homage to one of her deeper vocal influences, with musicians like the pianist Frank Kimbrough, the bassist Dean Johnson and the drummer Tony Moreno, who all join her here. At 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; no cover, with a $15 minimum (Chinen). JALEEL SHAW QUINTET (Tomorrow) Jaleel Shaw is an alto saxophonist with a progressive take on bebop, and he has a way of assembling sharp-honed rhythm sections. This one includes Mike Moreno on guitar and Kendrick Scott on drums. At midnight, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $10, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) Classical Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music. 
 Opera * 'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' (Tonight) Bartlett Sher's breezy production of Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' introduced in November, conveys the comic confusions of the story through its fluid staging and a wonderfully abstract set: a matrix of movable doors, staircases and potted orange trees, behind which the characters spy on one another. The heated sexuality in this tale of romantic intrigue also comes through strongly, thanks to Mr. Sher's subtle direction of a handsome cast. The captivating young mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato is a vocally agile and feisty Rosina. The accomplished American tenor Lawrence Brownlee, in his Met debut role, makes a sweet-toned, technically agile and appealing Count Almaviva. The baritone Russell Braun is another standout for his hardy and clever Figaro. Maurizio Benini conducts. Tonight will be the final ''Barbiere'' of the season. At 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Anthony Tommasini) 'CASTOR ET POLLUX' (Thursday) Rameau was a wonderful opera composer, but since there is not a big market for the French baroque at major opera houses, this is a relatively rare chance to hear one of his operas in New York. The diminutive Opera Francais de New York has helped propel the conductor Yves Abel into a larger career, but he returns to it for these two performances (there is another next weekend), featuring talented young singers like the soprano Erin Morley. At 8 p.m., French Institute/Alliance Francaise, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6160, fiaf.org; $50; $40 for students and members. (Anne Midgette) * 'ORFEO ED EURIDICE' (Tomorrow) In his Met debut, the choreographer Mark Morris has created an often magical and unapologetically fanciful modern-dress production of Gluck's sublime masterpiece ''Orfeo ed Euridice.'' He draws rich portrayals from the elegant and ardent countertenor David Daniels as Orfeo, the earthy soprano Maija Kovalevska as Euridice, and the sweet-toned soprano Heidi Grant Murphy as the god Amor, here a sassy, angelic Ellen DeGeneres look-alike who descends from the skies to intervene in the story. Members of Mr. Morris's company, supplemented by dancers from the Met, are silent participants in the action. But nearly 100 vocally robust choristers portray historical witnesses to the drama, everyone from Henry VIII to Mahatma Gandhi to Princess Di. James Levine conducts a distinguished performance. At 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Tommasini) * 'IL TRITTICO' (Tomorrow) The Met's season ends tomorrow night with its new ''Trittico,'' Puccini's triptych of one-act operas, which is now officially the most elaborate production in the company's repertory. The director Jack O'Brien has created grandly old-fashioned yet insightful and effective stagings of these three very different operas: ''Il Tabarro,'' a grim love triangle aboard a barge in Paris; ''Suor Angelica,'' a tender, mystical and ultimately devastating story of a young nun's yearning to be with her dead child; and ''Gianni Schicchi,'' an irreverent comedy about the avaricious relatives of a miserly old man who has just died. The earthy soprano Maria Guleghina as the beleaguered barge-owner's wife, the impassioned soprano Barbara Frittoli as Sister Angelica, and the stylish baritone Alessandro Corbelli as the shrewd Schicchi are stand-outs, though the powerhouse mezzo-soprano Stephanie Blythe, who plays three supporting roles, almost steals each show. Joseph Colaneri conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Tommasini) * VOX 2007 (Tomorrow and Sunday) ''Showcasing American composers'' is the tag line of City Opera's annual series of readings of contemporary operas-in-progress. Twelve composers, from Robert Aldridge to John Zorn, present excerpts from their works in six afternoon sessions, each preceded by a panel discussion. Tomorrow night four independent groups present new works of their own, including a new ''operina'' by Jack Beeson, as part of the Vox umbrella. Readings begin at noon, performances tomorrow night at 8, Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 992-8484, nycopera.com; free. (Midgette) Classical Music * PIERRE-LAURENT AIMARD (Tonight) Concerts of excerpts, short works and juggled movements can easily misfire, but if anyone can make something of the format, it is Pierre-Laurent Aimard, one of the more thoughtful pianists performing now. He has, in any case, made this montage approach work in several recent recitals, and the material at hand here holds out fascinating possibilities. Among the composers represented are Boulez, Stockhausen, Kurtag, Liadov, Mussorgsky, Tchaikovsky, Bartok, Webern, Janacek, Schoenberg, Beethoven and Schubert. At 7:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $40 to $48. (Allan Kozinn) AMERICAN STRING QUARTET (Tonight) A prestigious Naumburg Award gave the American String Quartet its start more than 30 years ago. For the ''Naumburg Looks Back'' series, this well-regarded ensemble, in residence at the Manhattan School of Music since 1984, presents a program of works by Berg, Schubert and Robert Sirota, the president of the Manhattan School. At 8, Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20. (Tommasini) * ALISON BALSOM (Sunday) The indispensable Free for All at Town Hall series continues with a recital by the trumpeter Alison Balsom. Forging a solo trumpet career is not easy. And almost all the players who have succeeded have been male. But Ms. Balsom, a 27-year-old Brit, is having great success, with two acclaimed EMI Classics recordings already to her credit. She is joined by the Balsom Ensemble for a program of works by Bach, Purcell, Handel, Byrd, Falla and Piazzolla. At 5 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 707-8787, freeforallattownhall.org; free tickets will be available at the box office at noon. (Tommasini) BROOKLYN PHILHARMONIC (Tomorrow) Under the leadership of Michael Christie, its dynamic young music director, this orchestra has offered a number of stimulating concerts recently. It closes the season with another intriguing program, featuring the Ridge Theater staging of Gorecki's Symphony No. 3, and Hindemith's ''Mathis der Maler,'' with Nathalie Paulin, a soprano, as soloist. At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, brooklynphilharmonic.org; $20 to $60. (Vivien Schweitzer) CHAMBER MUSIC AT THE Y (Tuesday and Wednesday) A stellar lineup of musicians, including the violinists Jaime Laredo and Daniel Hope, the cellists Sharon Robinson and Paul Watkins, and the violists Ida Kavafian and Mark Holloway, join forces for an evening of chamber music that includes Schubert's String Trio in B flat and String Quintet in C, Gideon Klein's Duo for Violin and Cello and Erwin Schulhoff's String Sextet. At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Schweitzer) COLLEGIATE CHORALE (Tuesday) Orff's ''Carmina Burana'' and Brahms's ''Liebeslieder Waltzes'' are the stuff of this well-known chorus's last concert of the season, conducted by Frank Nemhauser. The chorus will perform the Orff this summer at the Verbier Festival in Switzerland. At 8 p.m., Church of St. Paul the Apostle, Columbus Avenue at 59th Street, (646) 792-2373, collegiatechorale.org; $20 to $45. (Midgette) DISCOVERIES (Tuesday and Wednesday) The Austrian Cultural Forum's final mini-festival of the season features nominally less-known songs, including works by Johan Hoven, who set Heine's cycle ''Die Heimkehr'' -- all 88 poems -- to music. The first program, performed by Elisabeth von Magnus, a mezzo, includes a set of Hoven songs, as well as works by Haydn and a group of familiar works by Mozart. At 8 p.m., 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org; free, but reservations are required. (Midgette) MET ORCHESTRA (Sunday) James Levine and his estimable Met Orchestra frame Elliott Carter's ''Three Illusions'' and ''Dialogues for Piano and Orchestra'' with Mendelssohn's ''Scottish'' Symphony and Mozart's ''Jupiter'' Symphony. Nicolas Hodges will be the visiting piano soloist. At 3 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $50 to $160. (Bernard Holland) MUSICIANS FROM MARLBORO (Tonight) Teachers and students intermingle and are sometimes hard to tell apart in this city edition of Vermont's famous summer musical seminar-in-action. Here the program includes a Mozart piano trio, a Dvorak piano quartet and the Shostakovich String Quartet No. 8. At 8, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $40. (Holland) * PAUL O'DETTE and ELLEN HARGIS (Tuesday) The soprano Ellen Hargis and the lutenist Paul O'Dette have proved an inventive early-music recital team, and their current program of 17th-century songs and lute solos -- offered as part of the Boston Early Music Festival's New York series -- promises a bit of everything, from love songs and humorous works to heart-rending laments. At 7:30 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org; $45; $35 for members. (Kozinn) ITZHAK PERLMAN (Thursday) The violinist Itzhak Perlman and the pianist Rohan De Silva return to Lincoln Center's Great Performers series, with Schubert's Rondo in B minor (D. 895), one of the few pieces he wrote for violin; Strauss's romantic Sonata in E flat (Op. 18); and Lukas Foss's ''Three American Pieces.'' Mr. Perlman will announce other works from the stage, adding a whiff of spontaneity to the evening. At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $35 to $70. (Schweitzer) * MAURIZIO POLLINI (Tomorrow) In his two Carnegie Hall recitals, the pianist Maurizio Pollini is exploring the links between standard repertory works and classic modern scores. At the first, late last month, he traced the links between Chopin, Debussy and Pierre Boulez. Now he turns to German composers for a program that includes' Stockhausen's Klavierstucke VII and VIII, Schumann's ''Kreisleriana'' and Beethoven's ''Hammerklavier'' Sonata. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $34 to $108. (Kozinn) ST. THOMAS CHOIR (Tuesday) John Scott leads his superb choir of men and boys in Rachmaninoff's Vespers, a remarkably rich work that draws on ancient Russian chant. Ory Brown is the mezzo soloist; David Vanderwal is the tenor. At 7:30 p.m., St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street, (212) 664-9360, saintthomaschurch.org; $25 to $60. (Kozinn) SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY (Thursday) One of the world's happy marriages between orchestra and conductor comes to New York in this, the first of two concerts. The San Francisco players under Michael Tilson give the first evening over to Stravinsky, including the Symphony in Three Movements, and to Tchaikovsky. We get a good look at Tchaikovsky's enduring influence on Stravinsky. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $29 to $98. (Holland) BRIGHT SHENG AND DAEDALUS STRING QUARTET (Tomorrow) Bright Sheng is a lively and internationally acclaimed composer, and composer in residence at Flushing Town Hall: He has organized several concerts at its small theater, and this weekend is the host of a performance with two of his own pieces -- the Third String Quartet and the Concertino for Clarinet and String Quartet -- and Brahms's Clarinet Quintet. The Daedalus is a young group with many awards, in residence both at Lincoln Center and Columbia. At 8 p.m., 137-35 Northern Boulevard, Queens, (718) 463-7700, flushingtownhall.org; $16; $12 for members. (Midgette) TOKYO STRING QUARTET (Tomorrow) The eminent Tokyo String Quartet, in residence at the 92nd Street Y, continues its enjoyable exploration of the works of Robert Schumann, in honor of the 150th anniversary of his death. The program tomorrow includes the String Quartet in F (Op. 41, No. 2) and the Piano Quintet in E flat (Op. 44), for which the Tokyo will be joined by the German pianist Alexander Lonquich. Mr. Lonquich will also play Schumann's ''Kreisleriana.'' At 8 p.m., 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40. (Schweitzer) * DEBORAH VOIGT (Tonight) This popular soprano sings a recital with her regular accompanist, Brian Zeger. The program begins with a selection of songs by Mozart, Verdi, Strauss and Respighi. Then Ms. Voigt turns to American music, with ''Three Browning Songs'' by Amy Beach and seven songs by Leonard Bernstein, including some lovely and seldom-heard works. At 8, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $25 to $84. (Tommasini) ZEPHYROS WINDS WITH PEDJA MUZIJEVIC (Thursday) The Baryshnikov Arts Center continues its Movado Hour series with the Zephyros Winds and the pianist Pedja Muzijevic in a program of quintets by Mozart and Beethoven and bagatelles by Ligeti. At 7 p.m., 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (917) 934-4966, baryshnikovdancefoundation.org; free, but reservations are required. (Midgette) Dance Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance. * AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (Monday through Thursday) The company opens with a gala program of tidbits from the ballets to be performed during its eight-week New York spring season. The novelty of the evening is a new pas de deux choreographed by Brian Reeder to a Chopin waltz performed live by the concert pianist Lang Lang. Then it's on to a week of ''La Bayadere,'' complete with pathetic heroines, noble but all-too-human princes, sizzlingly wicked villains and choreography that epitomizes the exquisite purity of classical ballet. The first-week lead dancers are Paloma Herrera, Angel Corella and Gillian Murphy (Tuesday); Veronika Part, Marcelo Gomes and Michele Wiles (Wednesday mati nee); Diana Vishneva, Ethan Stiefel and Stella Abrera (Wednesday night) and Ms. Herrera, David Hallberg and Ms. Murphy (Thursday). (The season continues through July 7.) Monday at 6:30 p.m., Tuesday at 8 p.m., Wednesday at 2 and 8 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $24 to $168. (Jennifer Dunning) Companhia Portuguesa de Bailado Contemporaneo (Wednesday and Thursday) The artistic director Vasco Wellenkamp brings his dramatic vision to the Joyce with a return to his dance ''Requiem.'' Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m. (Through May 20.) The Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $38. (Claudia La Rocco) * DANCE AT THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY (Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday nights) SkoveWorks will perform Lily Skove's new ''Split,'' a collaboration with the lighting designer T J Hellmuth, through tomorrow. Ms. Skove compares the piece, which plays with hidden and obstructed perspectives, to a Polaroid picture in its first seconds of exposure. Chase Granoff takes over on Thursday (through May 19) with his new ''BOREDOM!!! (as an amplifier),'' with a score by Jon Moniaci. At 8, the Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org; $15; free for Queens residents on Thursday. (Dunning) FRIDAYS @ NOON (Today) This informal series of new work and audience feedback will feature work by Naomi Goldberg Haas, Shannon Hummel and Dagmar Spain. At noon, 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; free. (Dunning) * Lawrence Goldhuber/BIGMANARTS (Wednesday and Thursday) Stravinsky and Elvis, uptown and downtown, theater and dance, drama and biting wit -- Lawrence Goldhuber knows how to bridge worlds. With a company that includes Wallie Wolfgruber, Robert La Fosse, Keely Garfield and David Parker, and a show that features three works new to New York, there should be something here for everyone. (Through May 19.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $12 and $20. (La Rocco) GORILLAFEST 07 (Thursday) Bill Young/Colleen Thomas & Company have opened up their studio for a wide-ranging and relaxed-sounding alternative arts festival that includes music, film, performance art and dance by Joe Poulson, Walter Dundervill, Erick Montes and Osmany Tellez. (Through May 20.) At 8:30 p.m., Hundred Grand, 100 Grand Street, at Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 925-6573; $15; $12 for students and 65+. (Dunning) DEBORAH LOHSE'S AD HOC BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. Lohse, a classically trained dancer who has worked with the mentally ill, will present ''The Lucy Poems,'' a series of dances that address mental illness and are set to music by David Lang, Michael Gordon and Bang on a Can. Tonight at 8 and 9:30; tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m., Clark Studio Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning) LA MAMA MOVES! (Tonight through Sunday) This lively series ends this weekend with a single program, ''Inventors,'' featuring a young iconoclast named Christopher Williams and a sly veteran upsetter of apple carts named Douglas Dunn. Tonight and tomorrow night at 10:30, Sunday at 5:30 p.m., La MaMa e.t.c., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning) * Movement Research's Spring Gala (Monday) One of the city's brightest spots for experimentation honors one of dance's ultimate experimenters, Yvonne Rainer. Dinner at 6 p.m., performance at 8, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 598-0551, movementresearch.org; $25 and $50 for performance-only tickets; $150 to $1,500 for gala tickets. (La Rocco) NEW GENERATION DANCE COMPANY (Tomorrow) This tango and modern-dance troupe will perform ''The Black-White Tango'' with the guest artists Carlos Copello, who danced in ''Tango Argentino'' and ''Forever Tango,'' and Luciana Paris and Elizabeth Mertz, both of American Ballet Theater. At 3 and 8 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $25 to $45. (Dunning) * NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Peter Martins's new ''Romeo and Juliet'' will be performed through the weekend with the lead dancers Sterling Hyltin and Robert Fairchild (tonight and Sunday afternoon); Erica Pereira and Allen Peiffer (tomorrow afternoon) and Tiler Peck and Sean Suozzi (tomorrow night). Then it's back to regular repertory, now performed in theme programs: next week ''Four Voices,'' with choreography by Christopher Wheeldon, Alexei Ratmansky, Jerome Robbins and George Balanchine (Tuesday and Wednesday) and ''Three Masters: Tchaikovsky, Balanchine and Robbins'' (Thursday). Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $15 to $86. (Dunning) RAGAMALA (Tonight through Sunday) From Minneapolis, the company mixes Indian Bharatanatyam dance with contemporary movement, Japanese taiko drums and a capella singing. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at noon and 5 p.m., New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, newvictory.org; $12.50 to $35. (Dunning) Liz Sargent (Thursday through Sunday) In ''Revealing,'' Ms. Sargent probes issues of perception and control, employing repetitive movements that play out in Jayme del Rosario's shape-shifting creations. At 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194; $15. (La Rocco) * DOUG VARONE AND DANCERS (Thursday) Mr. Varone and his dancers have an understated but profound way with movement, music and performing. His new ''Dense Terrain,'' set to music by Nathan Larson, explores the notion of human connectedness with an emphasis on the language of words, gestures and movement. (Through May 20.) At 7:30 p.m., BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, between Ashland and Rockwell Places, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $20 to $45. (Dunning) WORLD MUSIC INSTITUTE: SONGS & SHAMAN DANCES OF MANIPUR (Tonight) Presented by the Laihui ensemble, in a United States debut, these rarely performed songs and shaman ritual dances come from ''the land of jewels,'' an isolated mountainous region in the foothills of the Himalayas that is the home of the Tibeto-Burman Meiteis people, where pure cultural traditions have been preserved. At 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, worldmusicinstitute.org; $27; $15 for students. (Dunning) Art Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KINDRED SPIRITS: ASHER B. DURAND AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through July 29. This show of about 60 works by Durand has as its centerpiece ''Kindred Spirits'' (1849), a tribute to the landscapist Thomas Cole and his friend the poet-journalist William Cullen Bryant. A founder of the Hudson River School, Durand (1796-1886) favored the realistic approach to landscape. He explored forest interiors with close attention to the ways of trees, foliage and rocks and ground cover in smaller works, while his larger and more elaborate exhibition pictures, influenced by European masters, are Arcadian visions suffused with light, color and atmospheric perspective. The show reveals Durand's strong sense of artistic mission and his potent role in shaping the aesthetic of 19th-century America. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck) GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'DIVISIONISM/NEO-IMPRESSIONISM: ARCADIA AND ANARCHY,' through Aug. 6. Ultimately this rare, compressed, mercurial exhibition of work by the Italian Divisionists of the 1890s is long on history and short on truly convincing paintings. The inclusion of works by Seurat and his French, Dutch and Belgian followers clarifies how the Italians pushed Pointillism, Seurat's invention, in all directions: toward realism, academic classicism, Symbolism, class consciousness and even Impressionism. The show opens a new, albeit small, window on the genesis of Modernism beyond the French canon. If many of the works are period pieces, they are also immensely appealing, big-hearted and physically robust period pieces. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Roberta Smith) * JAPAN SOCIETY: 'Awakenings: Zen Figure Painting in Medieval Japan,' through June 17. Japan Society has a history of producing exquisite shows of Buddhist art. And this one, with four dozen paintings of Buddhists gods and saints hung in shrinelike alcoves, is transporting. It covers a broad swath of geography, bringing together 13th- to 16th-century hanging scrolls, not only from Japan but also from China, where Zen Buddhism, called Chan in Chinese, originated. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Holland Cotter) * the Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Journeys: Mapping the Earth and Mind in Chinese Art,' through Aug. 26. Every six months or so, the Met rotates all the work in its Chinese painting galleries to preserve the delicate silks and papers, and each time, the curator in charge, Maxwell K. Hearn, produces a new and illuminating thematic exhibition, as is the case with ''Journeys.'' Outward-bound and inward-bound are the directions taken by Chinese landscape painting, and it carries us on some fascinating voyages in a show that mixes classical and contemporary art. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter) The Met: 'FRANK STELLA: PAINTING INTO ARCHITECTURE,' through July 29. Crammed into a gallery that feels like an obstacle course, this exhibition spans 43 years with 25 paintings, reliefs, drawings and architectural models, all with the goal of tracing an evolution that has not yet occurred. Taking up most of the space are enlarged versions of models that are considered sculptures -- and that look as if they date from the early 1960s. The main draws are the examples of the paintings and reliefs that are the basis of Mr. Stella's importance as an artist. (See above.) (Smith) The Met: 'FRANK STELLA ON THE ROOF,' through Oct. 28. Two large Pop art sculptures, two architectural models and a model enlarged into a sculpture-installation piece confirm that one of the greatest American artists of the postwar era doesn't do himself or anyone else any favors when he strays from the wall to work fully in the round. The results have a certain Stella-like verve but are otherwise generic. (See above.) (Smith) * Neue Galerie: 'Van Gogh and Expressionism,' through July 2. The Neue has, as usual, gathered a stellar roundup of Expressionist art. In one of the show's most exciting rooms, a third-floor gallery devoted mostly to self-portraits, two extraordinary van Goghs hang at opposite ends: ''Self-Portrait With Straw Hat'' (1887-88), from the Metropolitan Museum's collection, filled with energetic, radiating brushstrokes, and the National Gallery's vibrant self-portrait of the artist holding a palette and brushes, painted about a year later. The most compelling pairing in this room, though, is van Gogh's ''Bedroom'' from 1889, the second of three versions he painted of his room in Arles, with Egon Schiele's obvious homage, ''The Artist's Bedroom in Neulengbach,'' painted in 1911, in a darker palette and with a perspective tipped precariously toward the viewer. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Martha Schwendener) The Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Philosophy of Time Travel,' through July 1. This flawed show, which was created by a group of artists who studied together at the California Institute of the Arts, is nonetheless an interesting example of one of the art world's latest trends: the art collective. It takes Brancusi's ''Endless Column'' as its point of departure and reimagines this Modernist icon from the point of view of art school grads, who are versed in the language of artspeak and wed to the righteous cause of freedom of expression. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Bridget L. Goodbody) Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Gordon MaTTA-cLARK rETROSPECTIVE,' through June 3. I have no doubt that Matta-Clark is now being turned into a hot commercial commodity, but at least at the Whitney you can see what he aspired to be. He came up with various wonderfully harebrained ideas. Literally, in one case: after letting his hair grow for a year, he cut it off as a kind of performance and phrenological gag. The preserved hair, dutifully tagged piece by piece, opens the show like a holy relic. At the center of the exhibition is ''Splitting.'' To a plain single-family suburban frame house in Englewood, N.J., he made a cut straight down the middle, bisecting the building, then severing the four corners of the roof. The retrospective consists of films, drawings, photographs and some of the architectural pieces he cut out of buildings. The drawings are casual and not too interesting, but the luxurious black-and-white photographs from Paris speak more to Matta-Clark's formal elegance. The big message was: Life as art, and art as life, a philosophy dependent on our being properly attuned and keen to the moment. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Michael Kimmelman) Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Taryn Simon,' through June 24. Ms. Simon couches the show in the intellectual, power-to-the-people oratory of leftist politics, yet she clearly delights in exposing, in a quasi-tabloid fashion, America's underbelly. Though she has also worked in war-torn areas, Ms. Simon is best known for ''The Innocents,'' a series of portraits of men and women who were wrongly convicted but later cleared by DNA test results. Ms. Simon can work as long as a year to gain permission to photograph high-security zones like the government-regulated quarantine sites, nuclear waste storage facilities, prison death rows and C.I.A. offices on view in the show. There are also pictures with lighter themes: the sandpit where the Grucci family tests fireworks, ski slopes being dynamited for avalanche control and the second Death Star, from ''Return of the Jedi,'' at George Lucas's Skywalker Ranch. Ms. Simon is at her artistic best when her delight in the strangeness of American culture shines. (See above.) (Goodbody) Galleries: 57th Street * KATHY BUTTERLY: BETWEEN A ROCK AND A SOFT PLACE Although she is a little off her game here, this extraordinarily talented ceramic sculptor continues to impress with exquisitely detailed, radiantly colored, art historically aware, discreetly lascivious little pieces, especially if you have never seen her work before. Still, the question of whether it isn't time for a change hangs over the proceedings. Tibor deNagy Gallery, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 262-5050, through May 19. (Smith) Last Chance * American Folk Art Museum: MARTiN RAMiREZ, Ramirez, a Mexican peasant who immigrated to Northern California and died there at 68 in 1963, spent the last 32 years of his life in a mental hospital, making some of the greatest art of the last century. He had his own way with materials and color, and an unforgettable cast of characters. But most of all, he had his own brand of pictorial space. In addition to being one of the season's best exhibitions and the first of his work in a New York museum, this show should render null and void the distinction between insider and outsider art. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith) * Jo Baer Ms. Baer is best known for her immaculate early Minimalist paintings and for a 1983 statement in which she declared that the realities of post-1960s power politics had rendered abstraction irrelevant. By that point she had moved to Europe where, in her 80s, she still lives. And she had started painting the figure, which she continues to do with verve, on the evidence of this quietly vehement show. Alexander Gray Associates, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 1019, Chelsea, (212) 399-2636; closes tomorrow. (Cotter) * Lazhar Mansouri: 'Portraits of a Village: 1950-70' Mansouri (1932-1985) was born in northeastern Algeria and apprenticed to a local portrait photographer, then set up a studio of his own. Townspeople and neighbors came to have portraits made, either to celebrate an occasion -- a birth, a graduation, a military induction -- or to document a relationship and create personal keepsakes. The pictures at Westwood, all recent prints and larger than the originals would have been, range over 20 years. Whether approached as social and political documents or as objects of beauty, they are moving, burning, life-enlarging things. Westwood Gallery, 568 Broadway, SoHo, (212) 925-5700; closes tomorrow . (Cotter) * the Museum of Modern Art: JEFF WALL. This majestic show makes a great case for Mr. Wall as the most complete, if traditional, of the untraditional artists who emerged from the turmoil of Conceptual art. His often immense color transparencies mounted on light boxes are enthralling visual vehicles, intent on giving pleasure while making a point or two about society, art, history, visual perception, the human animal or all of the above. An imposing blend of painting, street photography and movies, they blur reality and artifice, narrative and form, detail and the big statement. You can't stop looking at them. (212) 708-9400, moma.org, closes on Monday. (Smith) * RICHARD OELZE: PAINTINGS AND DRAWINGS FROM THE 1950s & 1960s Nearly two dozen paintings in the first United States show of this little-known German Surrealist introduce an introvert with a penchant for grisaille grottolike structures that seem built on air, and for soft, fleshy forms that sometimes have eyes or reveal hidden faces or figures. Max Ernst is a big influence, and Pavel Tchelitchew an obvious analogy, but the exquisite rendering and pervasive unquiet are Oelze's alone. Ubu Gallery, 416 East 59th Street, (212) 753-4444; closes tomorrow. (Smith) * 'Prime Time: Mickalene Thomas and Shinique Smith' A sparkling double-header by two very different artists with much in common. In paintings encrusted with rhinestones, Ms. Thomas gives 1970s pin-up portraits of African-American women the shimmer of Byzantine mosaics. Ms. Smith turns bundles of cast-off clothes into floral bouquets of exotic patterning. Caren Golden Fine Art, 539 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-8304, carengoldenfineart.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter) * Hunter Reynolds: 'Patina du Prey's Memorial Dress, 1993-2007' In 1993 Hunter Reynolds -- an artist and an H.I.V.-positive gay man -- first performed as his alter ego, Patina du Prey, wearing a black ball gown inscribed with thousands of names of people who had died of AIDS. There were so many names that a second gown had to be made. It is in this heartbreaking show, along with the memorial books of names collected over the years, and blank books for recording names for a new dress. In a world littered with bogus monuments, this is the real, worthy thing. Artists Space, 38 Greene Street, third floor, SoHo, (212) 226-3970, artistspace.org; closes tomorrow. (Cotter) * Anne Ryan Anne Ryan sightings are infrequent these days, partly because the exquisite abstract collages that made her name in New York in the late 1940s and early '50s are scarce. There's just one in this small show at Teller, otherwise made up of prints and a few paintings. All are part of a fascinating and understudied modernist career that should be on permanent view. Susan Teller Gallery, 568 Broadway, SoHo, (212) 941-7335; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An art entry in the Listings pages of Weekend on Friday about ''Patina du Prey's Memorial Dress, 1993-2007,'' at Artists Space in Soho, misidentified the Artists Space Web site. It is artistsspace.org.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- A portrait, above, by the Algerian photographer Lazhar Mansouri is among the works on view at Westwood Gallery. Page 22. (Photo by Westwood Gallery)
CLASSICAL -- Pierre-Laurent Aimard, right, plays a concert of short works and excerpts this evening at Carnegie Hall. Page 21. (Photo by Jennifer Taylor for The New York Times)
 POP -- Stephen Marley, below, will be joined by his brother Damian (Junior Gong) Marley tonight at the Nokia Theater. Page 21. (Photo by Scott Gries/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); WRITERS (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); MUSIC (77%); HISTORY (70%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (70%); ART HISTORY (65%); THEATER (58%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



190 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: We Are New Orleans

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Lawrence Downes (Editorial Observer, May 7), suggests that New Orleans has reverted to an earlier form of the American economy: one in which the abuse of labor is common, poverty is rampant and individuals are forced out of necessity to organize along racial lines. 
But what is described here lurks just below the surface all across this country. It's not that New Orleans has reverted to some more primal state of being, but rather that it is the prototypical American city. 
 The illiteracy, homelessness and government inaction from which New Orleans suffers are part and parcel of America itself. What we see in New Orleans is not 19th-century America, but the result of 21st-century American poverty. Jeff DeFlavio Washington, May 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); WEATHER (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%) Area Planning and Renewal; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Labor; Wages and Salaries; Floods; Levees

PERSON: Jeff DeFlavio; Lawrence Downes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



191 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS St. Petersburg, Fla.; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: A Neighborhood of Colonials and Palm Trees

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

 BODY:
ANYONE who still considers St. Petersburg, Fla., the last stop before checking into a nursing home may be shocked by the transformation of this once sleepy Gulf Coast city. Construction cranes pierce the sky, topping off a series of new high-rise condominiums. Closer to the ground, daytime visitors tarry between art museums, a farmer's market and the waterfront park, while young professionals pack restaurants and clubs at night.
 With 3,000 new housing units expected to be added to the city's stock over the next two years, St. Petersburg's skyline is undergoing big changes. All this development is generally seen as good news for St. Petersburg as a whole, and proving to be a particular boon to the neighborhood just north of downtown known as the Historic Old Northeast -- Old Northeast for short.
This quiet residential neighborhood stuffed with old houses is the opposite of the happening downtown scene, which might just be its appeal. Those discovering this area, largely through word of mouth, say they love its sense of community while relishing the easy access to downtown. 
 ''It just grows and grows on you,'' said Meg Higgs, who moved to Old Northeast four years ago from San Francisco. ''It has a safe feeling. There are no traffic jams. Everybody gets to know each other.''
 Old Northeast has long been considered one of the city's most desirable neighborhoods for year-round residents, real estate agents say, but it has recently attracted empty nesters or semiretired buyers who see it as a good investment.
 Harold Mindel, director of Click Models Management in New York, said that when he arrived in St. Petersburg a couple of years ago looking for a Southern getaway, he thought he'd buy a ranch or a condominium. But then he fell in love with Old Northeast, where he bought a 1925 Mediterranean revival for $435,000. 
 ''This area has always attracted a lot of Northeasterners,'' said Mr. Mindel, who has an apartment in Manhattan and a house in Asbury Park, N.J. ''You've got palm trees mixed with old homes. It's just incredible.''
 Old Northeast runs from Fifth to 30th Avenues and Fourth Street to Tampa Bay. Created in 1911 by the land developers C. Perry Snell and J. C. Hamlett, the neighborhood features mostly single-family houses in a range of styles like colonial revival, Mediterranean and Craftsman-style bungalows. 
 Last year a neighborhood association tried to create a local historic district, but the campaign fell short of the necessary approval of two-thirds of the area's residents. Robin Reed, chairwoman of the neighborhood association's historic preservation committee, said some homeowners worried that the historic designation would be too restrictive. Preservationists are concerned about the growing number of smaller homes being torn down and older apartment buildings being replaced by condo developments. 
 ''St. Petersburg for many years was a sleepy little place, and that preserved what we have here,'' Ms. Reed said. ''But like many communities near the water, in these economic boom times, if someone wants to come in and tear down a little house, they can do it overnight.'' The Scene 
 With Tampa Bay, and the adjacent North Shore Park at neighborhood's eastern border, Old Northeast appeals to joggers, bikers and dog walkers. 
 The Higgs family chose St. Petersburg, in part, because of its burgeoning art scene. Eric Higgs is a sculptor. After first moving into one Craftsman-style house four years ago, the family traded up last winter to a grand Dutch colonial facing Tampa Bay, which they bought for $1.35 million.
 ''Every block you're closer to the water, the better,'' said Ms. Higgs, who regularly takes her three sons to the park's beach.
 The tightly knit community has the reputation for playing by its own rules -- closing off roads for a street hockey game or a block party, and especially at Halloween. 
 Since buying a four-bedroom Mediterranean-style house for $1.3 million two years ago, Bill Iacono said he and his partner, Greg Hill, spend almost all their time on the front porch. ''Everyone is so friendly,'' said Mr. Iacono, a retired construction manager who spends summers in Rehoboth Beach, Del. ''If somebody throws a party, they invite the whole neighborhood.'' Pros 
 With its eclectic architecture, brick streets, picket fences and lush foliage, the neighborhood offers an odd blend of New England style and tropical sensibility. Despite its residential nature, it is just north of St. Petersburg's downtown, making it convenient to the city's booming cultural and entertainment scene. It also offers easy access for out-of-towners, since it is just 20 minutes from Tampa International Airport. Cons 
 The recent growth in downtown St. Petersburg is increasingly encroaching on Old Northeast, whether it is the weekly events in the waterfront park that overflow into the neighborhood and clog the small streets and alleys with traffic, or the ever-growing pressure by developers to build there. The Real Estate Market 
 With the prices on the most luxurious new condominiums downtown climbing as high as $6 million, properties in Old Northeast, and the more exclusive Snell Isle just across Coffee Pot Bayou, could still be considered relative bargains. Bungalow-style houses in the southern end of the district can list for as low as $400,000. More typical is a 1925 Mediterranean-style stucco house with four bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms listed at $774,900.
 The more expensive houses are found on and near Beach Drive and Coffee Pot Boulevard or on Snell Isle, where a much photographed house, a 4,500-square-foot Spanish-style house built in 1928, is on the market for $3.35 million. 
 As elsewhere in Florida, sales have slowed, according to Alona Dishy, an agent with Realty Executives in St. Petersburg, who said houses stay on the market for an average of six months. Price increases, once 30 to 35 percent a year, now are at 10 to 12 percent in Old Northeast, Ms. Dishy said. She said that there are about 50 active listings in the neighborhood. 
 The lot sizes here are relatively small, either 60 feet by 110 feet or 50 feet by 127 feet. From bungalows to two-story homes, the average house size ranges from 1,800 to 2,400 square feet. Scattered among the older homes is a small selection of condominiums, from studio and one-bedroom apartments in renovated older buildings, listing for $200,000 to $300,000, to Vinoy Place, a four-tower development built in 2000 on Fifth Avenue Northeast, where units go for $799,000 to $3 million.
 ''We have people who buy here as their third, fourth or even fifth homes,'' Ms. Dishy said. ''People who have a place in New York and one in Aspen. They'll use it now as a second home and may end up retiring here, but they want to get in before the prices go up.''
 That was the case for Jane and Tony Harwood, who were looking to trade in their winter vacation house in Coronado, Calif., for something closer to their home in Atlanta. They looked in Miami and Tampa before choosing a 1923 gray, wood-shingled house in Old Northeast, which Mrs. Harwood said reminded them of their summer house in Maine. 
 ''We were looking for something historic and in a real neighborhood,'' Mrs. Harwood said. ''We found this area to be more calm and contained. You can ride your bike anywhere.'' LAY OF THE LAND POPULATION -- About 7,800 residents live in the Historic Old Northeast neighborhood, according to the city. St. Petersburg's overall population is estimated at about 249,000 by the Census Bureau. SIZE -- About 700 acres, according to the city. WHO'S BUYING -- Unlike much of Florida's west coast, which traditionally draws from the Midwest, St. Petersburg's Old Northeast tends to attract buyers from the Northeast. The neighborhood also draws buyers from the Carolinas, Atlanta and other cities in Florida. GETTING THERE -- Frequent and reasonably priced flights from New York to Tampa International Airport are readily available. From the airport, take I-275 south to Exit 23A, then I-375 east toward the bay. WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The Pier Hotel (253 Second Avenue North, 727-822-7500; www.thepierhotel.com) is a small European-style hotel built in 1921 and restored starting in 2001. Rooms and a Continental breakfast go for about $150 in the winter and approximately $100 in the off-season. Also in the southern section of the neighborhood is the Renaissance Vinoy Resort (501 Fifth Avenue NE, 727-894-1000; vinoyrenaissanceresort.com), where rooms run about $350 a night in season and $250 off-season. THREE FOR SALE Close to Downtown, a Front-Porch Kind of Place Information on properties was provided by the listing companies. WHAT -- 3-bedroom house HOW MUCH -- $375,900 This 1,932-square-foot Cape-style house was built in 1940 and has been renovated, with a new master suite and a second bathroom. Agent: James Schickowski, Coldwell Banker Residential, (727) 822-9111; www.jamesschickowski.com. WHAT -- 3-bedroom house HOW MUCH -- $749,000 Built in 1927, this 2,161-square-foot, two-and-a-half-bath Arts and Crafts-style house on a corner lot has original built-ins and architectural detailing along with modern updates, like a new kitchen and a master bathroom with a whirlpool tub. It is two blocks from Tampa Bay. Agent: Alona Dishy, Realty Executives; (727) 458-8037; www.alonadishy.com. WHAT -- 5-bedroom house HOW MUCH -- $839,000 This 3,489-square-foot house with three and a half baths has high ceilings with crown moldings, hardwood floors and many original built-ins. It was built in 1927 and has a fireplace, formal dining room and a master bedroom with a balcony. Agent: Shane Whitlatch, ERA Lambrecht & Associates; (727) 828-5550; www.buyinstpete.com. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: WINDUP -- In Historic Old Northeast, Mickey Hanrahan pitches to Anderson Williams. (Photo by Chip Litherland for The New York Times) Map of Florida highlighting St. Petersburg. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); HISTORY (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); APPROVALS (71%); EMPTY NESTERS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); LAND SUBDIVISION (64%) Travel and Vacations; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Jill P Capuzzo

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) St Petersburg (Fla); Florida

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



192 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: City Ponders Building Apartments Feet From a Jail

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
City officials have devised what may be the ultimate test of demand for housing in New York: They are asking developers if they want to build apartments pressed up on the side of the Brooklyn House of Detention.
 For more than a year, officials at the Department of Correction have been considering whether to add stores and restaurants to the street level of the jail, which they plan to expand and reopen. But now they are floating the idea of a bigger redevelopment that could include residential and commercial buildings sandwiching the enlarged jail.
 Diagrams in city documents suggest that one or two buildings, each 10 to 15 stories tall, could abut the jail, which closed in 2003. City officials will decide whether those buildings would contain apartments, hotel rooms or offices after fielding responses from developers over the next 10 weeks. 
 ''There's no preference for residential, but we certainly wanted to test the market to see what the developers thought,'' said Jennifer K. Friedman, a vice president in the city's Economic Development Corporation, which is soliciting the responses.
 But Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, said he believed people were so hungry for living space in Downtown Brooklyn that they would be willing to rent or buy homes right next to the jail. 
 ''We're hot as a pistol right now,'' he said. 
 Mr. Markowitz cited the rash of condominium construction nearby as evidence that the detention center has not deterred development. If the Correction Department is going to reopen the jail, local residents would prefer that it be as obscure as possible, he said. 
 ''If we built bookend buildings, we could almost mask the House of Detention,'' Mr. Markowitz said. 
 Turning the jail, which opened in 1956, into a mixed-use complex would fill a gap that ''still destroys the tapestry of Atlantic Avenue and really separates it from east to west,'' Mr. Markowitz said.
 The jail sits in the middle of a block bounded by Atlantic Avenue, State and Smith Streets and Boerum Place. The Correction Department plans to nearly double the jail's capacity of 760 beds by adding an adjoining structure on State Street that would serve as its new entrance. 
 The city is seeking a developer interested in supervising the expansion and renovation of the jail and in owning the retail space on the street level of the complex, as well as the new residential or commercial buildings.
 Robert Maruca, a deputy correction commissioner, said he understood that there might be trepidation about having inmates on the other side of one's bedroom wall. 
 ''We had to get comfortable with it from a security perspective,'' Mr. Maruca said. ''We're confident that we can design in the right type of separation and orient the nonjail buildings away from the jails.'' 
 Indeed, the city's solicitation specifies that the apartment dwellers, who may have to pay thousands of dollars a month to live within a few feet of occupied cells, would not have a front-row look at life behind bars.
 The redesigned detention center ''will ensure that inmates and city personnel should not be able to view into the new residential and/or commercial developments nor should the occupants of the development parcels be able to view into the jail,'' it states.
 For prospective renters or buyers, good value will trump fear in the end, said Highlyann Krasnow, executive vice president at the Developers Group, a real estate brokerage firm.
 ''Depending on the purchase price, people would consider it because the location is fantastic,'' Ms. Krasnow said. ''There's condos selling a block away, half a block away for well over $1 million, even $2 million.''
 She added that the looming presence of more than 1,400 inmates would not be as much of a concern to neighborhood residents as the potential impact on traffic and parking. ''Welcome to New York,'' she said. ''We don't care about jails. We just care about parking.'' 

GRAPHIC: Map of Brooklyn highlighting site of proposed development and example of possible site plan. (Source by N.Y.C. Economic Development Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRISONS (90%); CITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RETAILERS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Housing; Brooklyn House of Detention; Prisons and Prisoners; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Correction Department (NYC) 

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



193 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Push U.S. to Force Wolfowitz From World Bank

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 10 

 BODY:
European leaders have told the Bush administration that Paul D. Wolfowitz must resign as president of the World Bank in order to avoid a vote next week by the bank's board declaring that he no longer has its confidence to function as the bank's leader, European officials said Thursday. 
 The officials said the board was drafting a resolution reflecting its view that the relationship between Mr. Wolfowitz and the governing body of the bank had ''broken beyond repair.'' They noted that, if he remained in office, some European countries were planning to reduce contributions to the World Bank that would aid poor countries and instead would channel the money to European agencies and other groups for distribution. 
''The administration has been told that its battle to save Wolfowitz cannot be won,'' said a European official, who like others who discussed the matter spoke on the condition of anonymity because the matter is confidential. ''His relationship with the board is not only damaged. It is broken.''
 Bank officials say that the growing determination to oust Mr. Wolfowitz has led to a polling of the 24 members of the bank board and that a majority favor his ouster. 
 It was not clear why the board was not preparing simply to vote to oust Mr. Wolfowitz from his job. The bank's governing articles say that a president ceases to hold his job if the board so decides.
 Instead, the board appeared to be searching for language to attract a majority vote and also to represent the strongest possible rebuke that would serve as the functional equivalent of an ouster by making his situation untenable and all but halting his ability to travel, meet with foreign leaders, negotiate on policy or make personnel decisions.
 Disclosure of the board's plans came as Mr. Wolfowitz was preparing to make a last-ditch appeal to save his job, on the ground that the charges of misconduct and favoritism against him have been unfair and based on distortions.
 Responding to the latest threat of a vote, Mr. Wolfowitz's lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, said: ''If this is true, it's disappointing and outrageous. What is the point of giving us time to make a submission if they have already made up their minds?''
 Mr. Bennett said that Mr. Wolfowitz would be submitting ''a powerful presentation that shows without doubt that there is no bad faith on his part, no conflict of interest on his part'' and that a premature judgment raised doubts about the bank's credibility. 
 Bank officials say that Mr. Wolfowitz has already been given an opportunity to make his case in testimony before the bank's special committee investigating him and that the committee and board members have reviewed hundreds of pages of testimony and documents.
 Bank officials familiar with the process of drafting the resolution to be adopted next week said the language was being revised in order to secure support that would be as broad as possible. At present, these officials said, support for the no-confidence resolution has come from Europe, most of Asia and Latin America.
 Mr. Bennett has said that Mr. Wolfowitz would file a written statement by the end of this week countering the committee's conclusion that he violated conflict-of-interest rules and would appear before bank officials to defend himself next week. He has been invited to do so on Tuesday.
 But with an acceleration of discussions about Mr. Wolfowitz throughout the bank and between finance and development ministries and their counterparts in Washington, it appeared that time was running out for him. The vote declaring him no longer able to function as president could come Wednesday, European and bank officials said.
 There had been talk in recent weeks of an arrangement in which Mr. Wolfowitz would be offered the option of resigning in return for some kind of resolution saying he acted in good faith in the handling of a pay and promotion package for Shaha Ali Riza, his companion. But on Thursday it appeared too late for such language to be included in any resolution to be adopted next week. 
 European officials have encouraged the United States to go along with Mr. Wolfowitz's ouster in return for a promise that President Bush could continue the tradition of the United States picking the next president. But that possibility has not been seized by the administration in its talks with the bank.
 There was no immediate response from the Bush administration on the possibility of a no-confidence vote, but officials said the dire situation for Mr. Wolfowitz had been discussed recently with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. Michele Davis, Mr. Paulson's spokeswoman, said Thursday that Mr. Paulson's talks had been confined to ensuring a fair process for Mr. Wolfowitz. Ms. Rice's spokesman said she was not involved in any talks about whether Mr. Wolfowitz should resign.
 The bank board committee found last week that Mr. Wolfowitz violated bank rules and the terms of his contract barring conflicts of interest when he ordered a pay and promotion package for Ms. Riza upon becoming president in 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ETHICS (72%); MISCONDUCT (69%); BAD FAITH (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%) Ethics; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: World Bank; World Bank

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush; Paul D Wolfowitz; Shaha Ali Riza

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



194 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Fell Sharply Last Month

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
From department stores to discount chains, sales were dismal last month, suggesting that rising gas prices and the flagging housing market are starting to weigh on American consumers.
 Worries about the economy fueled by the results of retailers for April, including a report from Wal-Mart Stores that its monthly sales fell by the largest percentage on record, helped make for Wall Street's worst day in almost two months.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped from a six-year high to lose 1.4 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average shed nearly 150 points, or 1.1 percent, while Nasdaq lost 1.7 percent. [Page C9.] 
 ''At a very minimum, the consumer is in some sort of retreat,'' said Ed McKelvey, senior economist for Goldman Sachs. ''This may just be a bumpy transition to a slower growth mode, or it might be something a little more serious.''
 Beyond the troublesome outlook for consumer spending -- the mainstay of the economy this decade -- signs emerged yesterday as well that growth in the first quarter may have been slower than first thought.
 The government reported that the imbalance between what Americans export and import widened in March to the highest level in six months. As a result, many economists said they expected that growth in gross domestic product for the first quarter could be revised to a level below 1 percent, down from the already sluggish 1.3 percent initially estimated.
 For retailers, April was a month to forget. Collectively, the industry reported its worst monthly sales slump in at least six years. 
 Retailers pointed to a variety of special circumstances, from wet weather that reduced interest in spring clothing to an early Easter, which lifted sales in March at the expense of April. But even after taking those short-term factors into account, the results were disappointing. Sales slid 1.8 percent during the month, according to Retail Metrics, a research firm. That was well below analysts' expectations, with Wal-Mart Stores and Target being the hardest hit.
 Bill Dreher, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities, said that the earlier-Easter argument did not appear to hold up. Even after combining sales for March and April, he said, sales at both Target and Wal-Mart fell significantly this year compared with last.
 ''That tells us that something else is going on,'' he said. ''There is a consumer spending slowdown.''
 Not everybody agreed with that assessment, however.
 The housing industry has been going through a correction since late last summer, yet until recently there was little evidence it was denting consumer spending. And consumers appeared equally unfazed when gasoline prices started climbing last summer. It may take a little while before it is clear whether last month's pullback in spending at the malls points to a longer-term slowdown.
 ''Just because it's a convincing story that higher gas prices and a slowdown in the housing market should lead to slower consumer spending doesn't make it true,'' said Markus Schomer, an economist with AIG Global Investment Group. ''We've not seen a significant decline in consumer confidence. We've not seen a more serious slowdown in job creation. I don't see what should now finally trip us into a recession, or even weaker economic growth.''
 Still, whatever the future holds, retailers are suffering now. ''Terrible'' was the verdict from Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics. ''With Wall Street looking for weak April retail sales,'' he added, ''retailers did not disappoint.''
 A sales falloff at stores open for at least a year was experienced nearly across the board. Sales fell 16 percent at Gap, 10.5 percent at Kohl's, and 4.7 percent at J. C. Penney.
 The department store industry, on a rebound for months, was not immune.
 The parent company of Macy's, Federated Department Stores, has attributed its sales slowdown over the last year to the outlets of the former May Department Stores, which it acquired in 2005. Today, it said performance was weak across its entire chain. Sales fell 2.2 percent.
 ''April sales were disappointing across the country in both new and legacy Macy's stores,'' said Terry J. Lundgren, the chief executive of Federated, who said that a May promotion event was moved up to April this year but ''did not produce the results we expected.''
 A sour tone for the month was set by American Eagle Outfitters, whose sales are typically strong. The company, which sells clothing mostly to teenagers, reported a 10 percent sales decline for April.
 There were a few bright spots -- but very few. Saks, which has returned to its classic luxury roots resulting in stronger sales over the last year, said sales rose 11.7 percent in April.
 Few economists are predicting a sharp pullback by consumers. But many said they viewed April's retail numbers as the first indication that Americans are turning more cautious.
 ''We've had two quarters of nothing less than spectacular consumer spending,'' said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research. ''This may be the first sign of subpar spending by the consumer.'' 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims'' Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows the 4-week moving average since December, 2006. (Sources by Labor Department, via Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EASTER SEASON (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Consumer Behavior; Weather; Apparel; Easter and Holy Week

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Retail Metrics

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (75%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Michael Barbaro; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



195 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 4480 words

HEADLINE: Theater Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
GAYFEST NYC June is Gay Pride month, so we can expect the usual variety of special events around the city leading up to the Pride Day march on June 24. But since this is New York, we don't have to wait till next month -- there's fabulous gay entertainment whenever we want.
For example, Gayfest NYC, a new monthlong festival that presents the works of emerging gay playwrights. The festival, produced by Bruce Robert Harris and Jack W. Batman for Sunny Spot Productions, includes three staged productions and two world premiere readings.
 Among the offerings is ''A Kiss From Alexander,'' starting May 24, in which a director stages a campy musical called ''Alexander Was Great!'' based on that world conqueror. When Alexander (now wandering the afterlife seeking the spirit of his mortal true love) learns that he is being portrayed as a gossipy, man-hungry queen, he intervenes -- dramatically, of course. The show, which was nominated for several Joseph Jefferson Awards after a 2005 Chicago production, has a book and lyrics by Stephan DeGhelder and music by Brad Simmons. 
 The festival has a serious side too: the other productions are ''Revolution,'' by Michael D. Jackson, a docudrama about events leading up to the Stonewall riots of 1969, and ''Competing Narratives,'' a drama by A. B. Asher about three men challenging one another's beliefs about race, sexuality and identity. 
 The festival also intends to donate some proceeds to a scholarship for students at Harvey Milk High School, a New York City public school that focuses on gay teenagers' needs. The festival is dedicated to the memory of Patrick Quinn, the former president of Actors' Equity Association, who died of a heart attack in September. (Through June 2, TBG Arts Center, 312 West 36 Street, third floor, Manhattan, 212-352-3101, theatermania.com; $18; $45 to $50 for festival passes. A schedule of events is at gayfestnyc.com.) STEVEN McELROY
 Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. Previews and Openings 'CRAZY MARY' Previews start today. Opens on June 3. In A. R. Gurney's new play, Sigourney Weaver stars as a woman who discovers that her cousin, the title character who is a patient in a psychiatric hospital, holds the keys to the family fortune (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, (212) 279-4200. 'GASLIGHT' In previews; opens on Thursday. The always fascinating Brian Murray stars in Patrick Hamilton's thriller about a man who drives his wife insane (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. 'IN A DARK DARK HOUSE' Previews start on Wednesday. Opens on June 7. Neil LaBute's latest drama features Frederick Weller and Ron Livingston as hostile siblings sorting out a history of abuse. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200. 'PASSING STRANGE' In previews; opens on Monday. The Joe's Pub veteran and pop singer Stew tries his hand at musical theater, with a rock-theme score and a story about the journey of a black bohemian (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. 'PHALLACY' Previews start on Sunday. Opens on May 18. An art historian and a chemistry professor argue over the authenticity and value of a statue in the new drama by scientist/playwright Carl Djerassi (1:30). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, (212) 239-6200. 'TEN MILLION MILES' Previews start today. Opens on June 14. A new musical by singer Patty Griffin and playwright Keith Bunin (''The Busy World is Hushed'') is about a road trip from Florida to New York. Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200. Broadway 'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'CORAM BOY' Set in 18th-century England, this rollicking melodrama about imperiled orphans is big and broad but not particularly deep. With a cast of 40, an orchestra in the pit and bursts of choral music (Handel, mostly) decorating the proceedings, it is tastefully splashy and certainly impressive, but less emotionally engaging than you might hope (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood) 'CURTAINS' This musical comedy about a musical-comedy murder -- featuring songs by John Kander and Fred Ebb and a book by Rupert Holmes -- lies on the stage like a promisingly gaudy string of firecrackers, waiting in vain for a match. The good news is that David Hyde Pierce, playing a diffident Boston detective, steps into full-fledged Broadway stardom. Scott Ellis directs a talent-packed cast that includes Debra Monk and Karen Ziemba. (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'DEUCE' Back on Broadway for the first time in 25 years, Angela Lansbury is so vitally and indelibly present she even gives flesh to this flimsy comedy. Terrence McNally's play, about the reunion of two former doubles partners (Ms. Lansbury and Marian Seldes), is a jerry-built shrine to enduring star power. Directed by Michael Blakemore (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) 'FROST/NIXON'Frank Langella turns in a truly titanic performance as Richard M. Nixon in Peter Morgan's briskly entertaining, if all-too-tidy, play about the former president's annihilating television interviews with the British talk show host David Frost (the excellent Michael Sheen). Michael Grandage directs with the momentum of a ticking-bomb thriller and the zing of a boulevard comedy (1:40). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'GREY GARDENS'Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'INHERIT THE WIND' Doug Hughes's wooden revival of this worthy war horse, based on the Scopes ''monkey'' trial of 1925, never musters much more velocity than a drugstore fan. Be grateful that the cast includes Christopher Plummer, in savory form as a Will Rogers of jurisprudence. An oddly subdued Brian Dennehy plays his pompous adversary (2:00). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'JOURNEY'S END' A splendid revival of R. C. Sherriff's 1928 drama of life in the trenches during World War I. Acutely staged (by David Grindley) and acted by a fine ensemble led by Hugh Dancy and Boyd Gaines, this production offers an exemplary presentation of that theatrical rarity, an uncompromising, clear-eyed play about war and the experience of day-to-day combat. An essential ticket (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'LEGALLY BLONDE' This nonstop sugar rush of a musical about a powder puff who finds her inner power-broker, based on the 2001 film, approximates the experience of eating a jumbo bag of Gummi Bears in one sitting. Flossing between songs is recommended (2:20). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'LOVEMUSIK' As Lotte Lenya and Kurt Weill, Donna Murphy and Michael Cerveris turn in stunningly shaded performances in what is, alas, a sluggish, mixed-up bio-musical. Scored with an eclectic sampler of Weill's songs, ''LoveMusik'' strives to achieve chilly distance and cozy intimacy in the same breath. Harold Prince directs; Alfred Uhry wrote the conventionally sentimental book (2:40). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) 'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'A MOON FOR THE MISBEGOTTEN'Kevin Spacey gives a bizarre, beat-the-clock performance, as lively as a frog on a hot plate, as James Tyrone in this off-kilter revival of Eugene O'Neill's last play. Mercifully, he does not block the view of Eve Best, who maps the contradictory levels of Tyrone's strapping love interest with clarity and intelligence (2:50). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) '110 IN THE SHADE' Is it possible for a performance to be too good? Audra McDonald brings such breadth of skill and depth of feeling to Lonny Price's lukewarm revival of this musical about a love-starved spinster, she threatens to burst the seams of this small, homey musical. She's an overwhelming presence in an underwhelming show (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Ben Brantley) 'THE PIRATE QUEEN' How to river-dance your way to the bottom of the ocean, courtesy of the songwriters of ''Les Miserables'' (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'RADIO GOLF' The final -- and in dramatic terms, the weakest -- of August Wilson's magnificent 10-play cycle about the African-American experience, ''Radio Golf'' has the crackle of a bustling comedy. But this tale of getting and spending in the 1990's, directed by Kenny Leon, throbs with a lament for a lost time, a lost culture, a lost language (2:30). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'TALK RADIO' The most lacerating portrait of a human meltdown this side of a Francis Bacon painting. Playing an abrasive radio talk show host with a God complex, the astounding Liev Schreiber seems to fill the air as inescapably as weather in Robert Falls's gut-grabbing revival of Eric Bogosian's 1987 play (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING' Joan Didion's arresting but ultimately frustrating adaptation of her best-selling memoir about being blindsided by grief, starring Vanessa Redgrave. The tension between style and emotional content that made the book such a stunner does not translate to the stage. The substance here is in the silences, when the focus shifts from words to Ms. Redgrave's wry, wounded face (1:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway 'ALL THE WRONG REASONS: A TRUE STORY OF NEO-NAZIS, DRUG SMUGGLING AND UNDYING LOVE' John Fugelsang's amiable solo show mixes memoir and stand-up comedy in a tale of family, faith and Roman Catholic guilt. Slight but engaging (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475. (Isherwood) 'AMERICAN FIESTA' The economist, consultant, preacher and playwright Steven Tomlinson makes his New York stage debut with a one-man show about how it was that he came to collect Fiestaware, the colorful china of the Depression years, which he deploys as a metaphor for just about everything. An astute observer of consumer obsession, Mr. Tomlinson ultimately subordinates much of his clever writing to a tepid and trite political message: that American civic life is a fractured bowl that needs to be put back together right now. American Fiesta is also about gay marriage, eBay and neuroscience, which is to say that it is about much too much (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. 
 (Ginia Bellafante) 'BAD BLOOD (MALASANGRE)' A wife is offered a lucrative job in Texas; her husband moves with her from Puerto Rico but rails against the condition of being a Latino in the United States. Presented in Spanish and English on different nights, this play by Roberto Ramos Perea is full of ideas and anger, but the political fury of the husband is not, in the English version, completely borne out by his characterization, and you can see the charting of the play a little too clearly between the lines. Still, it is an impressive celebration of the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater Company's 40th anniversary (2:30). Puerto Rican Traveling Theater, 304 West 47th Street, (212) 354-1293. (Anne Midgette). 'BE' A high-energy, low-content Israeli show that blends music, dance and sex appeal in the latest attempt to tap into the ''Stomp'' market (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100. (Jason Zinoman) 'BEAUTY ON THE VINE' Zak Berkman presents muddled politics and distorted anxieties in his quasi science fiction play about the influence of plastic surgery on young women who start modeling themselves after a right-wing radio host. Adding to the atmosphere of hysteria is the inability of the actors on stage to render a single subtle or nuanced moment (2:10). Harold Clurman Theater, 412 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Ginia Bellafante) 'BILL W. AND DR. BOB' This insightful new play about the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous subtly makes the claim that the recovery movement was born as a series of accidents. Patrick Husted is excellent as Bob Smith, Bill Wilson's partner in combating addictions (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Bellafante) 'BIOGRAPHY' A revival of S. N. Behrman's hoary 1932 comedy about a society portraitist and the men who keep trying to reign her in feels slight as a needlepoint pillow. As the play's supposedly beguiling heroine, Marion Froude, Carolyn McCormick never beguiles (2:15). The Pearl Theater, 80 St. Mark's Place, at First Avenue, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Bellafante) 'BLACKBIRD' David Harrower's stunning new drama looks back at a sexual relationship -- between a 40-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl -- that transforms, cripples and paralyzes. Jeff Daniels and Alison Pill, both extraordinary, peel their characters down to their barest souls. Joe Mantello is the masterly director (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley) 'THE BRIG' Serious students of the stage will want to check out the Living Theater's first revival since 1963 of Kenneth H. Brown's docudrama about the soul-shredding grind of daily life in a Marine Corps prison, once again directed by company co-founder Judith Malina. One of the most celebrated productions in the company's history, ''The Brig'' harks back to an era when theater was at the forefront of both political and artistic radicalism (2:00). Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, www.livingtheatre.org. (Charles Isherwood) 'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'GOD'S EAR' Jenny Schwartz's formally inventive and brilliantly performed drama about how the death of a child affects a family is more interested in language than narrative (1:20). East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444. (Jason Zinoman) 'IN THE HEIGHTS' Lin-Manuel Miranda's joyous songs paint a vibrant portrait of daily life in Washington Heights in this flawed but enjoyable show. Essentially a valentine to the barrio -- conflict of a violent or desperate kind is banished from the picture -- the musical contains a host of funny performances and brings the zesty sound of Latin pop to the stage. (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood) 'THE J.A.P. SHOW: JEWISH AMERICAN PRINCESSES OF COMEDY' Laughs along with longueurs (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder) 'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Anita Gates) 'MOTHER LOAD' In her one-woman show on the perils of affluent motherhood, Amy Wilson derides the culture of obsessive child-rearing as she chronicles her submission to it. An affable presence on stage, Ms. Wilson nevertheless mines overly cliched territory -- the nut allergies, the horrors of pre-school admission, the importance of knowing two languages by the time you are three. Posters on Urbanbaby.com will find themselves amusedly looking in the mirror. All other New Yorkers will find themselves wanting to move to Patagonia (1:15). Sage Theater, 711 Seventh Avenue at 47th Street, (212) 279-4200 (Bellafante) 'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30).Westside Theater Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 'THE RECEIPT' A lost bar receipt provides a one-way ticket to bedlam in a clever and diverting show that mirrors the idiosyncrasies of modern life as two young archeologists study ''lost'' city and postulate on one day in the life of one of its inhabitants (1:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Wilborn Hampton) 'SPALDING GRAY: STORIES LEFT TO TELL' A disarming collage of selections from the monologues and journals of Mr. Gray, the ultimate stand-up solipsist, who died in 2004. Directed by Lucy Sexton, and read by five performers, none of whom resemble Mr. Gray, with an affection that shrewdly stops short of hero worship (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'WEST MOON STREET' Rob Urbinati's adaptation of Oscar Wilde's short story ''Lord Arthur Savile's Crime'' delightfully mines a comedy of manners, a meditation on pre-marital fear, out of a clever mystery on fate. The performances, one and all, are first-rate (2:00). Hudson Guild Theater, 441 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-3101. (Ginia Bellafante) Off Off Broadway 'OCTOPUS LOVE STORY' Gay marriage is a theme of this sit-com-like drama about a political protest turned unlikely romance (1:30). Center Stage, 48 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444. (Jason Zinoman) 'ON THE VERGE' An amusing revival of Eric Overmyer's play about three Victoria-era ladies who set out, armed with parasols and machetes, to explore a terra incognita. As they ''whack the bushes'' into virgin territory, they soon discover they are traveling into the future (2:00). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 777-4280) (Wilborn Hampton) 'REALISM' AND 'JUMP!' The stately Jean Cocteau Repertory (now known as the Exchange) gets a hipster makeover with two foul-mouthed and aggressive new provocations from Britain (1:30 each). Kirk Theater, 420 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman) 'THE SEA' This odd 1973 play by Edward Bond gets a vivid production by the Actors Company Theater, but be forewarned: this ain't American humor. It's the sly, incongruous British variety. A fatal shipwreck off the coast of an eclectic little village turns the inhabitants even weirder than they already are. One fellow is convinced space aliens are behind the wreck (2:20). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Neil Genzlinger) 'T J AND DAVE' The comics T. J. Jagodowski and Dave Pasquesi miraculously improvise a one-hour play at every performance. This is an impressive feat of mental athletics, but the results are also observant, complex and frequently enormously funny (1:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) Long-Running Shows 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' A pasteboard pastiche of 1920's musicals, as remembered by a witty show queen(1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'TARZAN' A writhing green blob with music (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Last Chance 'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Honor Moore) 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA'Lincoln Center Theater's brave, gorgeous, sprawling and ultimately exhilarating production of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about intellectuals errant in 19th-century Russia. A testament to the seductive powers of narrative theater, directed with hot and cool canniness by Jack O'Brien and featuring a starry cast (Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Martha Plimpton, Josh Hamilton and Ethan Hawke, among others) in a tasty assortment of roles. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 'DENIAL' An engrossing and timely legal drama about a Holocaust denier being defended by a Jewish lawyer, this play examines the moral and ethical dilemma inherent in the First Amendment and asks how much sufferance can a free society give its crackpots and maintain its individual liberties (2:30). Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302; closes on Sunday. (Wilborn Hampton) 'EXPOSED: EXPERIMENTS IN LOVE, SEX, DEATH AND ART' Annie Sprinkle and Elizabeth Stephens, partners in life and art, share memories of their colorful history together. Donning lab coats, they also engage the audience in some informal experiments intended to increase the store of love in the world. Sloppy but somewhat sweet (1:30). Collective: Unconscious, 279 Church Street, at White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101; closes tomorrow. (Isherwood) Correction: May 10, 2007 A theater entry in the Listings pages of Weekend on Friday about Gayfest NYC, which presents the works of emerging gay playwrights, misstated the middle initial of one of the festival's producers. He is Jack W. Batman, not Jack R. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Sebastian La Cause, Michael Vaccaro and Matthew Boston in "Competing Narratives." (Photo by Ben Strothman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); THEATER (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); WRITERS (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); DEATHS (62%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007



196 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4443 words

HEADLINE: Theater Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
GAYFEST NYC June is Gay Pride month, so we can expect the usual variety of special events around the city leading up to the Pride Day march on June 24. But since this is New York, we don't have to wait till next month -- there's fabulous gay entertainment whenever we want. 
 For example, Gayfest NYC, a new monthlong festival that presents the works of emerging gay playwrights. The festival, produced by Bruce Robert Harris and Jack R. Batman for Sunny Spot Productions, includes three staged productions and two world premiere readings.
 Among the offerings is ''A Kiss From Alexander,'' starting May 24, in which a director stages a campy musical called ''Alexander Was Great!'' based on that world conqueror. When Alexander (now wandering the afterlife seeking the spirit of his mortal true love) learns that he is being portrayed as a gossipy, man-hungry queen, he intervenes -- dramatically, of course. The show, which was nominated for several Joseph Jefferson Awards after a 2005 Chicago production, has a book and lyrics by Stephan DeGhelder and music by Brad Simmons. 
 The festival has a serious side too: the other productions are ''Revolution,'' by Michael D. Jackson, a docudrama about events leading up to the Stonewall riots of 1969, and ''Competing Narratives,'' a drama by A. B. Asher about three men challenging one another's beliefs about race, sexuality and identity. 
 The festival also intends to donate some proceeds to a scholarship for students at Harvey Milk High School, a New York City public school that focuses on gay teenagers' needs. The festival is dedicated to the memory of Patrick Quinn, the former president of Actors' Equity Association, who died of a heart attack in September. (Through June 2, TBG Arts Center, 312 West 36 Street, third floor, Manhattan, 212-352-3101, theatermania.com; $18; $45 to $50 for festival passes. A schedule of events is at gayfestnyc.com.) STEVEN McELROY
 Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.
 Previews and Openings
 'CRAZY MARY' Previews start today. Opens on June 3. In A. R. Gurney's new play, Sigourney Weaver stars as a woman who discovers that her cousin, the title character who is a patient in a psychiatric hospital, holds the keys to the family fortune (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, (212) 279-4200.
 'GASLIGHT' In previews; opens on Thursday. The always fascinating Brian Murray stars in Patrick Hamilton's thriller about a man who drives his wife insane (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. 
 'IN A DARK DARK HOUSE' Previews start on Wednesday. Opens on June 7. Neil LaBute's latest drama features Frederick Weller and Ron Livingston as hostile siblings sorting out a history of abuse. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200.
 'PASSING STRANGE' In previews; opens on Monday. The Joe's Pub veteran and pop singer Stew tries his hand at musical theater, with a rock-theme score and a story about the journey of a black bohemian (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.
 'PHALLACY' Previews start on Sunday. Opens on May 18. An art historian and a chemistry professor argue over the authenticity and value of a statue in the new drama by scientist/playwright Carl Djerassi (1:30). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, (212) 239-6200. 
 'TEN MILLION MILES' Previews start today. Opens on June 14. A new musical by singer Patty Griffin and playwright Keith Bunin (''The Busy World is Hushed'') is about a road trip from Florida to New York. Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200.
 Broadway
 'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) 
 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'CORAM BOY' Set in 18th-century England, this rollicking melodrama about imperiled orphans is big and broad but not particularly deep. With a cast of 40, an orchestra in the pit and bursts of choral music (Handel, mostly) decorating the proceedings, it is tastefully splashy and certainly impressive, but less emotionally engaging than you might hope (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. 
 (Charles Isherwood)
 'CURTAINS' This musical comedy about a musical-comedy murder -- featuring songs by John Kander and Fred Ebb and a book by Rupert Holmes -- lies on the stage like a promisingly gaudy string of firecrackers, waiting in vain for a match. The good news is that David Hyde Pierce, playing a diffident Boston detective, steps into full-fledged Broadway stardom. Scott Ellis directs a talent-packed cast that includes Debra Monk and Karen Ziemba. (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'DEUCE' Back on Broadway for the first time in 25 years, Angela Lansbury is so vitally and indelibly present she even gives flesh to this flimsy comedy. Terrence McNally's play, about the reunion of two former doubles partners (Ms. Lansbury and Marian Seldes), is a jerry-built shrine to enduring star power. Directed by Michael Blakemore (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)
 'FROST/NIXON'Frank Langella turns in a truly titanic performance as Richard M. Nixon in Peter Morgan's briskly entertaining, if all-too-tidy, play about the former president's annihilating television interviews with the British talk show host David Frost (the excellent Michael Sheen). Michael Grandage directs with the momentum of a ticking-bomb thriller and the zing of a boulevard comedy (1:40). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)
 'GREY GARDENS'Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'INHERIT THE WIND' Doug Hughes's wooden revival of this worthy war horse, based on the Scopes ''monkey'' trial of 1925, never musters much more velocity than a drugstore fan. Be grateful that the cast includes Christopher Plummer, in savory form as a Will Rogers of jurisprudence. An oddly subdued Brian Dennehy plays his pompous adversary (2:00). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'JOURNEY'S END' A splendid revival of R. C. Sherriff's 1928 drama of life in the trenches during World War I. Acutely staged (by David Grindley) and acted by a fine ensemble led by Hugh Dancy and Boyd Gaines, this production offers an exemplary presentation of that theatrical rarity, an uncompromising, clear-eyed play about war and the experience of day-to-day combat. An essential ticket (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)
 'LEGALLY BLONDE' This nonstop sugar rush of a musical about a powder puff who finds her inner power-broker, based on the 2001 film, approximates the experience of eating a jumbo bag of Gummi Bears in one sitting. Flossing between songs is recommended (2:20). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)
 'LOVEMUSIK' As Lotte Lenya and Kurt Weill, Donna Murphy and Michael Cerveris turn in stunningly shaded performances in what is, alas, a sluggish, mixed-up bio-musical. Scored with an eclectic sampler of Weill's songs, ''LoveMusik'' strives to achieve chilly distance and cozy intimacy in the same breath. Harold Prince directs; Alfred Uhry wrote the conventionally sentimental book (2:40). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)
 'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)
 'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'A MOON FOR THE MISBEGOTTEN'Kevin Spacey gives a bizarre, beat-the-clock performance, as lively as a frog on a hot plate, as James Tyrone in this off-kilter revival of Eugene O'Neill's last play. Mercifully, he does not block the view of Eve Best, who maps the contradictory levels of Tyrone's strapping love interest with clarity and intelligence (2:50). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 
 '110 IN THE SHADE' Is it possible for a performance to be too good? Audra McDonald brings such breadth of skill and depth of feeling to Lonny Price's lukewarm revival of this musical about a love-starved spinster, she threatens to burst the seams of this small, homey musical. She's an overwhelming presence in an underwhelming show (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Ben Brantley) 
 'THE PIRATE QUEEN' How to river-dance your way to the bottom of the ocean, courtesy of the songwriters of ''Les Miserables'' (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 
 'RADIO GOLF' The final -- and in dramatic terms, the weakest -- of August Wilson's magnificent 10-play cycle about the African-American experience, ''Radio Golf'' has the crackle of a bustling comedy. But this tale of getting and spending in the 1990's, directed by Kenny Leon, throbs with a lament for a lost time, a lost culture, a lost language (2:30). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)
 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 
 'TALK RADIO' The most lacerating portrait of a human meltdown this side of a Francis Bacon painting. Playing an abrasive radio talk show host with a God complex, the astounding Liev Schreiber seems to fill the air as inescapably as weather in Robert Falls's gut-grabbing revival of Eric Bogosian's 1987 play (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)
 'THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING' Joan Didion's arresting but ultimately frustrating adaptation of her best-selling memoir about being blindsided by grief, starring Vanessa Redgrave. The tension between style and emotional content that made the book such a stunner does not translate to the stage. The substance here is in the silences, when the focus shifts from words to Ms. Redgrave's wry, wounded face (1:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. 
 (Brantley)
 Off Broadway
 'ALL THE WRONG REASONS: A TRUE STORY OF NEO-NAZIS, DRUG SMUGGLING AND UNDYING LOVE' John Fugelsang's amiable solo show mixes memoir and stand-up comedy in a tale of family, faith and Roman Catholic guilt. Slight but engaging (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475. (Isherwood) 
 'AMERICAN FIESTA' The economist, consultant, preacher and playwright Steven Tomlinson makes his New York stage debut with a one-man show about how it was that he came to collect Fiestaware, the colorful china of the Depression years, which he deploys as a metaphor for just about everything. An astute observer of consumer obsession, Mr. Tomlinson ultimately subordinates much of his clever writing to a tepid and trite political message: that American civic life is a fractured bowl that needs to be put back together right now. American Fiesta is also about gay marriage, eBay and neuroscience, which is to say that it is about much too much (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. 
 (Ginia Bellafante) 
 'BAD BLOOD (MALASANGRE)' A wife is offered a lucrative job in Texas; her husband moves with her from Puerto Rico but rails against the condition of being a Latino in the United States. Presented in Spanish and English on different nights, this play by Roberto Ramos Perea is full of ideas and anger, but the political fury of the husband is not, in the English version, completely borne out by his characterization, and you can see the charting of the play a little too clearly between the lines. Still, it is an impressive celebration of the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater Company's 40th anniversary (2:30). Puerto Rican Traveling Theater, 304 West 47th Street, (212) 354-1293. (Anne Midgette). 
 'BE' A high-energy, low-content Israeli show that blends music, dance and sex appeal in the latest attempt to tap into the ''Stomp'' market (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100. 
 (Jason Zinoman) 
 'BEAUTY ON THE VINE' Zak Berkman presents muddled politics and distorted anxieties in his quasi science fiction play about the influence of plastic surgery on young women who start modeling themselves after a right-wing radio host. Adding to the atmosphere of hysteria is the inability of the actors on stage to render a single subtle or nuanced moment (2:10). Harold Clurman Theater, 412 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Ginia Bellafante)
 'BILL W. AND DR. BOB' This insightful new play about the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous subtly makes the claim that the recovery movement was born as a series of accidents. Patrick Husted is excellent as Bob Smith, Bill Wilson's partner in combating addictions (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Bellafante) 
 'BIOGRAPHY' A revival of S. N. Behrman's hoary 1932 comedy about a society portraitist and the men who keep trying to reign her in feels slight as a needlepoint pillow. As the play's supposedly beguiling heroine, Marion Froude, Carolyn McCormick never beguiles (2:15). The Pearl Theater, 80 St. Mark's Place, at First Avenue, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Bellafante) 
 'BLACKBIRD' David Harrower's stunning new drama looks back at a sexual relationship -- between a 40-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl -- that transforms, cripples and paralyzes. Jeff Daniels and Alison Pill, both extraordinary, peel their characters down to their barest souls. Joe Mantello is the masterly director (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)
 'THE BRIG' Serious students of the stage will want to check out the Living Theater's first revival since 1963 of Kenneth H. Brown's docudrama about the soul-shredding grind of daily life in a Marine Corps prison, once again directed by company co-founder Judith Malina. One of the most celebrated productions in the company's history, ''The Brig'' harks back to an era when theater was at the forefront of both political and artistic radicalism (2:00). Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, www.livingtheatre.org. (Charles Isherwood) 
 'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)
 'GOD'S EAR' Jenny Schwartz's formally inventive and brilliantly performed drama about how the death of a child affects a family is more interested in language than narrative (1:20). East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444. (Jason Zinoman) 
 'IN THE HEIGHTS' Lin-Manuel Miranda's joyous songs paint a vibrant portrait of daily life in Washington Heights in this flawed but enjoyable show. Essentially a valentine to the barrio -- conflict of a violent or desperate kind is banished from the picture -- the musical contains a host of funny performances and brings the zesty sound of Latin pop to the stage. (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood) 
 'THE J.A.P. SHOW: JEWISH AMERICAN PRINCESSES OF COMEDY' Laughs along with longueurs (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder) 
 'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Anita Gates)
 'MOTHER LOAD' In her one-woman show on the perils of affluent motherhood, Amy Wilson derides the culture of obsessive child-rearing as she chronicles her submission to it. An affable presence on stage, Ms. Wilson nevertheless mines overly cliched territory -- the nut allergies, the horrors of pre-school admission, the importance of knowing two languages by the time you are three. Posters on Urbanbaby.com will find themselves amusedly looking in the mirror. All other New Yorkers will find themselves wanting to move to Patagonia (1:15). Sage Theater, 711 Seventh Avenue at 47th Street, (212) 279-4200 (Bellafante) 
 'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30).Westside Theater Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)
 'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 
 'THE RECEIPT' A lost bar receipt provides a one-way ticket to bedlam in a clever and diverting show that mirrors the idiosyncrasies of modern life as two young archeologists study ''lost'' city and postulate on one day in the life of one of its inhabitants (1:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Wilborn Hampton) 
 'SPALDING GRAY: STORIES LEFT TO TELL' A disarming collage of selections from the monologues and journals of Mr. Gray, the ultimate stand-up solipsist, who died in 2004. Directed by Lucy Sexton, and read by five performers, none of whom resemble Mr. Gray, with an affection that shrewdly stops short of hero worship (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)
 'WEST MOON STREET' Rob Urbinati's adaptation of Oscar Wilde's short story ''Lord Arthur Savile's Crime'' delightfully mines a comedy of manners, a meditation on pre-marital fear, out of a clever mystery on fate. The performances, one and all, are first-rate (2:00). Hudson Guild Theater, 441 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-3101. (Ginia Bellafante) 
 Off Off Broadway
 'OCTOPUS LOVE STORY' Gay marriage is a theme of this sit-com-like drama about a political protest turned unlikely romance (1:30). Center Stage, 48 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444. (Jason Zinoman) 
 'ON THE VERGE' An amusing revival of Eric Overmyer's play about three Victoria-era ladies who set out, armed with parasols and machetes, to explore a terra incognita. As they ''whack the bushes'' into virgin territory, they soon discover they are traveling into the future (2:00). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 777-4280) (Wilborn Hampton)
 'REALISM' AND 'JUMP!' The stately Jean Cocteau Repertory (now known as the Exchange) gets a hipster makeover with two foul-mouthed and aggressive new provocations from Britain (1:30 each). Kirk Theater, 420 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman)
 'THE SEA' This odd 1973 play by Edward Bond gets a vivid production by the Actors Company Theater, but be forewarned: this ain't American humor. It's the sly, incongruous British variety. A fatal shipwreck off the coast of an eclectic little village turns the inhabitants even weirder than they already are. One fellow is convinced space aliens are behind the wreck (2:20). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'T J AND DAVE' The comics T. J. Jagodowski and Dave Pasquesi miraculously improvise a one-hour play at every performance. This is an impressive feat of mental athletics, but the results are also observant, complex and frequently enormously funny (1:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 
 Long-Running Shows
 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 
 'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. 
 (Brantley) 
 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)
 'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. 
 (Brantley)
 'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' A pasteboard pastiche of 1920's musicals, as remembered by a witty show queen(1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 
 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)
 'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)
 'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)
 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)
 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)
 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)
 'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.
 (Brantley) 
 'TARZAN' A writhing green blob with music (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 
 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 
 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 
 Last Chance
 'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Honor Moore)
 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA'Lincoln Center Theater's brave, gorgeous, sprawling and ultimately exhilarating production of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about intellectuals errant in 19th-century Russia. A testament to the seductive powers of narrative theater, directed with hot and cool canniness by Jack O'Brien and featuring a starry cast (Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Martha Plimpton, Josh Hamilton and Ethan Hawke, among others) in a tasty assortment of roles. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Brantley)
 'DENIAL' An engrossing and timely legal drama about a Holocaust denier being defended by a Jewish lawyer, this play examines the moral and ethical dilemma inherent in the First Amendment and asks how much sufferance can a free society give its crackpots and maintain its individual liberties (2:30). Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302; closes on Sunday. (Wilborn Hampton) 
 'EXPOSED: EXPERIMENTS IN LOVE, SEX, DEATH AND ART' Annie Sprinkle and Elizabeth Stephens, partners in life and art, share memories of their colorful history together. Donning lab coats, they also engage the audience in some informal experiments intended to increase the store of love in the world. Sloppy but somewhat sweet (1:30). Collective: Unconscious, 279 Church Street, at White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101; closes tomorrow. (Isherwood)
 ' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Sebastian La Cause, Michael Vaccaro and Matthew Boston in "Competing Narratives." (Photo by Ben Strothman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); THEATER (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); WRITERS (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); DEATHS (62%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007



197 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Mayweather Tries Broadcasting, But Ponders His Future

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Floyd Mayweather would make a good boxing commentator. 
 Almost everything he said after his split-decision victory against Oscar De La Hoya in their super welterweight title fight Saturday night was already said by HBO's Jim Lampley, Emanuel Steward and Larry Merchant: that he deflected many of De La Hoya's punches to his arms and shoulders, deprived De La Hoya of his left jab, and never saw De La Hoya's once-potent left hook.
Now, he said, with his visage unmarked, ''I am the face of boxing.'' 
 Mayweather was in New York yesterday, appearing on ''Regis & Kelly'' and taping analysis for the bout's replay on HBO tomorrow night at 10 p.m. eastern. He is about $30 million richer, thanks to the record pay-per-view audience of 2.15 million. ''I like to say 25 or 27 million, not 30,'' he said to reporters as if broaching the big 3-0 would spell excess.
 But how could it with De La Hoya pocketing an estimated $50 million?
 With so much money available, it would be a fine gesture if the two fighters dedicated some portion of their treasures to aid indigent boxers, much as the Baseball Assistance Team does to retired players in need. 
 Mayweather said his charitable works include feeding homeless people and battered wives. He is mulling a way to help less-fortunate colleagues, but added, ''We just can't say we'll give away our money.''
 No, but a small percentage of fighters' magnificent pay-per-view proceeds would be a worthy gesture in an industry without a safety net.
 Fighters at Mayweather's and De La Hoya's elite level are beneficiaries of boxing's weird economics, in which its best products are available only to those willing to pay $50 or more on pay-per-view. The boxing economy, as constructed, marginalizes a sport whose fan base has been fading for years. Even if five people watched Saturday's fight in each of the 2.15 million homes that purchased it, that means about 10 million to 11 million watched.
 A charismatic fighter like Mayweather is quite unlikely to use his celebrity and leverage to fight for less money on Mother HBO, or, more shockingly, on network TV, where millions have never seen him. 
 Is he Sugar Ray Leonard, Marvin Hagler or Thomas Hearns? No, but he is an attractive personality with his fame ascendant and possessed of magnificent skills. He might be the right fighter to persuade reluctant network advertisers to support a title fight on CBS, NBC, Fox or ABC, the latter where boxing was a primary sport in the 1960s and '70s.
 Mayweather is talking about retiring, but continues to suggest that he would take a rematch with De La Hoya, or, as he did yesterday, assess how he would beat the now-retired Felix Trinidad. He might not have anything more to prove than his ability to outearn De La Hoya in a second fight. 
 But while theirs was a good bout, it wasn't a great one; it never lacked for action but it begged for greater drama. At a certain point, there was little doubt of a Mayweather victory. The replay shows that Mayweather was the smarter boxer, throwing fewer punches, but landing many more.
 The commentators, almost in unison, stressed that De La Hoya was most effective with his left jab, but he eventually abandoned it. They praised De La Hoya's aggressiveness in pummeling Mayweather on the ropes, but also noted how few of his shots were reaching their target or doing much harm.
 Steward, one of De La Hoya's former trainers, saw him tiring and fighting flatfootedly. And while there was a running theme about De La Hoya's disappearing jab, Lampley suggested that throwing too many jabs would expose De La Hoya to Mayweather's quick, right-hand counters.
 I was at ringside, and fell for the illusion of De La Hoya's notably larger punch count. He was more visibly active, but that is not the way to judge a Mayweather fight. He punches and moves away and doesn't engage in the kind of concentrated flurries that De La Hoya thought would help him win.
 ''Judges aren't always great at discerning what lands and what doesn't,'' Lampley said in the 10th round. ''They're good at counting punches.''
 While I fell into that trap, it's clear from the replay that Mayweather was not savaging De La Hoya. He was scoring better, but, as Merchant said late in the bout, ''Floyd said he'd massacre Oscar. He'd better hurry up.'' He didn't have to beat him as badly as he promised. He simply outboxed him.
 Two nights after the fight, one of Mayweather's former opponents, Diego Corrales, 29, died in a motorcycle accident in Las Vegas. Mayweather said it occurred about two blocks from his Las Vegas condominium. 
 ''That corner he was driving at was extremely dangerous,'' he said. 
 Mayweather knocked Corrales down five times in 2001 in their super featherweight championship fight and won by a technical knockout. 
 Asked yesterday about his reaction to watching Corrales's memorable win over Jose Luis Castillo in their 2005 lightweight title bout, Mayweather (38-0) recalled that he said: ''He couldn't beat me.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); PAY PER VIEW (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CELEBRITIES (87%); BASEBALL (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Boxing

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA HOYA (92%); REGIS PHILBIN (54%) Richard Sandomir; Floyd Mayweather; Oscar De La Hoya

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



198 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
 Europeans Turn Up Heat On Wolfowitz to Resign European leaders have told the Bush administration that Paul D. Wolfowitz must resign as president of the World Bank to avoid a vote of no confidence by its board, saying some countries will reduce aid contributions if he stays on. PAGE A10 General Testifies on Haditha The general in charge of the marines who killed 24 civilians in Haditha said he was kept from investigating the killings because subordinates hid information. PAGE A18 Democrats Press Gonzales House Democrats pressed Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales to provide specifics about the dismissals of federal prosecutors, but he stuck to his past assertions. PAGE A24 Star's Move Shakes Nascar Dale Earnhardt Jr. is leaving the team his father made famous, effective after this season. The bidding for him could have a major effect on Nascar. SPORTSFRIDAY, PAGE D2 For a G Rating, No Puffing Facing growing pressure from anti-smoking groups, Hollywood is tweaking its movie rating system to consider smoking, alongside sex, violence and profanity, in deciding which films are suitable for young viewers. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1 New Renaissance In Harlem The Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture celebrates its reopening today. As the center unveils its two-year facelift, the neighborhood is also undergoing a renaissance. WEEKEND, PAGE E25 

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RATINGS (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); SMOKING (72%); MOVIE REVIEWS (72%); FILM (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALBERTO GONZALES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



199 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: The Glittering A-List of Black History

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
''Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits'' at the International Center of Photography is a praise song in pictures, a shoutout to history. It's also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. As such, it is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. 
 The guest list includes an abbreviated Who's Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X. In terms of entertainment, the event is beyond compare. Josephine Baker and Bill (Bojangles) Robinson dance. Sarah Vaughan, Leontyne Price and Odetta share a stage, with Sidney Bechet on sax, and Hazel Scott, looking divine, at the keyboard.
 You'd look divine too if you had James VanDerZee behind the camera, or Berenice Abbott or Edward Weston or Addison N. Scurlock or any of the other great photographers responsible for the 100 vintage-print portraits here, all from the archives of the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery. 
 There are more artists and writers than usual at such an affair. You'll recognize Horace Pippin, Edmonia Lewis and a beaming Lorraine Hansberry, by name if not by face. 
 And a few people you may be meeting for the first time. Ernest Everett Just (1883-1941), a pioneering biologist who spent much of his career in Europe after he was stonewalled by the American scientific establishment. And Henry Highland Garnet (1815-1882), a Maryland slave who escaped north, became an abolitionist firebrand and delivered the phrase that gives the show its title: ''Strike for your lives and liberties. Rather die freemen than live to be slaves. Let your motto be resistance! Resistance! Resistance!''
 As you look around the gallery, you can imagine some of the portraits reacting to his call. Elizabeth Catlett (in a wonderful likeness by Mariana Yampolsky), A. Philip Randolph, Paul Robeson, Amiri Baraka, Sojourner Truth and a young, blanket-swaddled James Baldwin seem to hear it and they're on the alert. Mr. Garnet's words aren't party words. They are stark, preaching, move-now words. 
 Which brings us back to the kind of party this is. It is, as I said, a housewarming in advance, and a buzz-builder, for a national African-American museum. When that museum goes up on the National Mall -- 2015 is the target date -- an essential aspect of American history will have its official monument. America and African America are one and the same. They're inseparable. 
 If this show can be taken as a preview of exhibitions to come, what will that history look like? Obviously, it will have glamour to burn, to judge by the lush, burnished portraits chosen by the guest curator, Deborah Willis, a professor of photography at New York University. 
 Roland Hayes, who sang like an angel, looks like an angel in a 1934 light-and-shadow likeness attributed to Johan Hagemeyer. Lena Horne floats like a butterfly for Philippe Halsman's Vogue-savvy eye. One after another, people glow or glower. Everyone is a star, an inspiration, a certified member of W. E. B. DuBois's Talented Tenth. 
 This Hall of Fame approach to cultural history delivers thrills, no question. But it also has a too easy, been-there air. The show feels like a throwback to another era, to a kind of exhibition that might have been mounted 20 years ago at the Studio Museum in Harlem, an institution that was until recently deeply invested in black pride, devoted to ethnic uplift. 
 That devotion was effective in its time. Among many other things, it encouraged the upward mobility of what has since become an economically and politically powerful black middle class. But is uplift on the same terms, for the same ends, the right framework for viewing African-American, or any other American, history in 2007? Is Bright and Beautiful the model to follow?
 The show doesn't entirely adhere to the model. Wall texts make clear that almost every person portrayed had to fight bitter odds for a seat in front of the camera. Each likeness was, consciously or by default, an effort to cast the African-American image, distorted by racism, in acceptably positive, mainstream terms. Three images, set by side by side at the start of the show, make life-and-death stakes clear. 
 In a 1956 picture the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. -- just a year after he had successfully used passive resistance as a tactical tool in Montgomery, Ala. -- stands in the sunshine beside his smiling wife, Coretta, holding their infant daughter, Yolanda Denise, in his arms. 
 In 1968 the same daughter, now in her teens, looks down at her murdered father in his coffin as her 5-year-old sister, Bernice, reacts with open-mouthed shock to the sight. A year later Stephen Shames catches the 25-year-old Angela Davis standing at a microphone, her mouth open to deliver a speech. Passive resistance is over; active resistance has begun. 
 Significantly, some of the best things in the show are action shots: the Supremes -- Diana, Mary and Flo -- in a recording session; Stokely Carmichael and a white-suited Adam Clayton Powell Jr. cracking up at a joke; Malcolm X impassively hawking broadsides on the street; Marian Anderson singing as a skinny young Leonard Bernstein looks on.
 These portraits are close to snapshots; their subjects look like regular people, Americans who happen to be black, in the middle of their accomplished lives. African America has, of course, a distinctive history, of profound pain and amazing grace. But the figures in these on-the-fly images are also part of a larger fabric: We the People. They are us; we are them. And with all our shared flaws and heroisms, we make up one mercurial, complicated, crazy quilt of a crew. 
 Many of the young artists seen at the Studio Museum these days are intensely interested in complications, in giving ''black'' and ''white'' hard critical scrutiny, in consigning racial pride, along with all other essentialisms, to the shelf. Such artists resist the old, easy-chair version of history that this crowd-pleaser of a show comes too close to emulating. I hope the National Museum of African American History and Culture will resist it too, when it finally gets the home it should have had years ago at the heart of the nation. ''Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits'' continues through Sept. 9 at the International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street; (212) 857-0000, icp.org. It opens at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington on Oct. 9. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The coffin of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. surrounded by mourners, including his children, in the show ''Let Your Motto Be Resistance.'' (Photo by Benedict J. Fernandez/National Portrait Gallery)
 Jimi Hendrix in 1967, one of the glamorous shots in the exhibition. (Photo by Estate of Linda McCartney/National Portrait Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%) Photography; Reviews; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (91%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (84%); INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY & CULTURE (58%) International Center of Photography (NYC)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) Holland Cotter

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007



200 of 619 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: BUSH IN ACCORD WITH DEMOCRATS ON TRADE DEALS

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 10 

 BODY:
The Bush administration reached agreement on Thursday with the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and other Democrats to attach environmental and worker protections in several pending trade accords, clearing the way for early passage of some pacts and improving prospects for others.
 The unusual agreement, which came after weeks of negotiations, would guarantee workers the right to organize, ban child labor and prohibit forced labor in trading-partner countries. It would also require trading partners to enforce environmental laws already on their books and comply with several international environmental agreements.
While the understanding was a victory for Democrats, it also represented a shrewd compromise by the White House. The agreement is the first major bipartisan economic deal to emerge since Democrats took control of Congress in January. It has immediate importance for four countries -- Colombia, Panama, Peru and South Korea -- that are seeking to enter into trade pacts with the United States. 
 But officials in Washington predicted that the agreement's effect would go beyond those countries and could be a template for all trade deals, including a possible worldwide accord. 
 Administration officials are hoping that the agreement will cause many Democrats to support future trade deals. They hope that enough Democrats will join with Republicans, who generally support such measures, to make passage of the agreements probable, if only narrowly.
 The negotiations were led on the administration side by Susan C. Schwab, the top trade envoy, and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., and on the House side by Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. 
 ''I think today is a recognition of the results of the November election,'' Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference. ''It doesn't mean that this paves the way for trade agreements where we have other obstacles. But where it comes down to labor standards and environment, this is enormous progress.''
 Ms. Schwab said that the agreement would send a message to trading partners that the United States was prepared to provide new impetus to the faltering talks for a global trade accord. 
 Democrats have been pressing for worker, environmental and other protections on trade deals without success since President Bush took office in 2001. The absence of such protections has meant that when lawmakers passed measures that lowered trade barriers, they generally did so without the support of Democrats.
 In the 1990s, President Bill Clinton was able to get only 40 percent of his fellow Democrats to endorse the North American Free Trade Agreement, and about 60 percent to support a global trade agreement. Since then, many Democrats have soured on measures to lower trade barriers.
 The breakthrough came as the politically sensitive trade deficit jumped in March to $63.9 billion, or 10 percent more than February's revised deficit of $57.9 billion, putting the imbalance at its highest level in six months. 
 The report, issued by the Census Bureau, followed a trend that economists have observed for months: even as growth slows in the United States, expanding economies abroad are creating a need for American exports. In March, exports totaled $126.2 billion, up $2.2 billion from February. Those gains were not enough to offset an $8.2 billion rise in imports, which totaled $190.1 billion.
 Thursday's compromise affects four trade deals pending before Congress, two of them signed and two with negotiations that are nearly complete. All four countries would have to accept the provisions agreed to with the Democrats, but trade officials said they expected no major problems. 
 Peru and Panama are considered most likely to win early Congressional approval. Colombia is more problematic, because Democrats are demanding that, besides the new measures, more protections be added to prevent violence against activists trying to organize workers.
 The South Korea accord, if put in place, would lead to the largest amount of increased trade. But it is opposed in its current version by Democrats who want greater access to that country's markets for American beef, automobiles and auto parts.
 Spokesmen at the National Association of Manufacturers and other business groups hailed the understanding, but said they wanted to study its provisions before endorsing its details.
 Democrats have been most wary of two administration trade priorities: concluding the global negotiations known as the Doha round, named after the city in Qatar where the talks began six years ago; and extending Mr. Bush's power to negotiate trade deals on which Congress gets only an up-or-down vote.
 This negotiating authority, known in Washington shorthand as fast track, has been vigorously opposed by Democrats, who say that they cannot imagine giving Mr. Bush open-ended negotiating authority.
 But Mr. Rangel said he could imagine a limited extension of such negotiating authority if the Doha round talks looked as if they were shaping up to be a good deal for the United States.
 Democrats representing the older industrial regions, where jobs have been lost because of imports of cheap textiles, shoes, machinery and other products made in Asia and Latin America, have generally been opposed to free trade deals.
 But others in the party are more open to trade. This group tends to represent high-technology and financial services industries, which are eager to gain markets in fast-growing third world countries.
 In addition, farmers have become proponents of trade deals now that a large share of farm products are being exported. But lawmakers from farm areas have been skeptical of the administration's record in negotiating trade pacts, insisting that they will not support them unless Europe and India open their markets.
 Ms. Schwab said the accord announced Thursday would help in her talks at the World Trade Organization aimed at reaching an agreement opening barriers for farm goods, industrial products and services. Those talks involve Brazil, India, the United States and the Europeans.
 Ms. Pelosi announced the trade deal with an unusual array of Republican and Democratic lawmakers and administration members at her side, including Ms. Schwab and Secretary Paulson. 
 The compromise appeared to be a striking tableau at a time of bitter partisan battles in Congress and with the administration over Iraq, actions by Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, budget issues, Social Security and Medicare. 
 What it seemed to show is that, on trade, a coalition of lawmakers from states that stand to gain more from increased exports than they lose from increased imports can come together if each side's interests are accommodated.
 Originally, the administration had opposed the labor standards, arguing that they would provide a backdoor attempt to change American labor laws. It envisioned trading partners suing to overthrow American curbs on union shops and teenage employment on farms and in summer jobs. These concerns appeared to fade in the face of prospects of not getting any trade deals through Congress this year. 
 In addition to the labor and environmental provisions, the pact would make it easier for generic drugs to be sold in foreign countries; preserve the right of the United States to bar foreign companies from running American ports; and ensure that foreign investors will not have more rights than American investors domestically. There are also promises to step up training of workers who lose their jobs because of imports. China's Trade Surplus Rises 
 BEIJING, Friday, May 11 (Reuters) -- China posted a trade surplus of around $16.9 billion for April, Xinhua, the official news agency, reported Friday.
 Economists polled by Reuters had expected a surplus of $15.9 billion.
 Exports in April were $97.4 billion, Xinhua said, while imports were about $80.5 billion. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Charles B. Rangel said a limited extension of expedited trade negotiations might be possible. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); CHILD LABOR (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Labor; Child Labor ; International Trade and World Market; Organized Labor 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) United States; Peru; Panama; Colombia; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007

 
