

401 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2879 words

HEADLINE: Confessing to the Converted

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
IT is standing room only in Transitions, a New Age bookstore in Chicago, and John M. Perkins, the author of ''Confessions of an Economic Hit Man,'' is describing to his audience the quandary that faces Evo Morales, the recently elected president of Bolivia. 
 Leaning low into the microphone, Mr. Perkins affects a deep conspiratorial whisper as he sets the scene for the imagined encounter between the new president and the representative of the multinational corporate interests Mr. Morales had vilified during his campaign.
''Congratulations Mr. President,'' Mr. Perkins says, assuming the role of the businessman, or economic hit man, as he likes to call his previous profession. ''I just want you to know that in this hand I have a couple of hundred million dollars for you and your family if you play the game our way.'' With the practiced timing of an expert storyteller, Mr. Perkins pauses. ''And in this hand I have a gun with a bullet in case you decide to keep your campaign promises.'' 
 As the rapt crowd clucks and murmurs as if let in on an unspeakable confidence, Mr. Perkins cautions that he is speaking metaphorically. But for an audience already punch drunk on Mr. Perkins's very own tales of corporate skullduggery, his allegory -- overripe though it may be -- carries not only a ring of truth but also clues to a long history of unexplained endings.
 ''And what about those crashes of J.F.K. Jr. and Paul Wellstone?'' a woman in the audience asks. ''They were awfully suspicious.''
 Yes, Mr. Perkins says with a nod, and reels off the deaths of others in airplane crashes: Gen. Omar Torrijos, the former president of Panama, in 1981; Jaime Roldos Aguilera, the president of Ecuador, also in 1981; and even Senator John G. Tower, the Republican from Texas, who perished with 22 others on a commercial flight in 1991. ''We have had a lot of plane crashes,'' Mr. Perkins says ominously.
 Mr. Perkins's core message is that American corporations and government agencies employ two types of operatives: ''economic hit men,'' who bribe emerging economies, and ''jackals,'' who may be used to overthrow or even murder heads of state in Latin America and the Middle East to serve the greater cause of American empire. During an earlier time, that message might have been mere fodder for conspiracy theorists and fringe publishers. But now, for all of Mr. Perkins's talk of fiery plane crashes and corporate intrigue, his book seems to have tapped into a larger vein of discontent and mistrust that Americans feel toward the ties that bind together corporations, large lending institutions and the government -- a nexus that Mr. Perkins and others call the ''corporatocracy.''
 THE idea that corporate interests have undue influence over White House administrations has long been a staple of anti-establishment politics. But during the Bush administration, some recent events have dragged this notion further into the mainstream. United States soldiers and businesses are firmly entrenched in Iraq and now the federal government plans to give $7 billion in royalty concessions to an oil industry already enjoying record profits. According to a recent Gallup poll, 70 percent of those questioned said they believed that big business had too much influence over Bush administration decisions.
 And in Houston, the squalid drama of Enron, the politically connected energy trading company that crashed and burned, continues to play to a packed house.
 For Mr. Perkins and a small group of similarly inclined authors, all of this has proved to be rich creative terrain. Since Penguin published it in paperback this January, ''Confessions'' has been on the New York Times best-seller list, rising to a high of fifth place on the nonfiction list last week. On Amazon.com, it has risen as high as No. 23 over all. The book is also being taught in classrooms at DePaul University here in Chicago and at Wheaton College in Norton, Mass. Hollywood has also shown an interest: Beacon Pictures bought an option to make a movie from the book as a prospective vehicle for Harrison Ford.
 While the larger issue of America's role in emerging economies is debated by many people, the book's popularity seems driven more by the mix of cloak-and-dagger atmospherics and Mr. Perkins's Damascene conversion from tool of American corporate interests to champion of the world's poor.
 ''My sin was ripping off people around the world,'' said Mr. Perkins, speaking of his job as a consultant who, he said, pushed countries like Panama, Ecuador and Iran to take on burdensome loans that they would have trouble repaying. ''I feel terrible about the things that I did as an economic hit man.''
 There is a rich literary tradition, spanning more than 80 years, of corporate insiders writing books in a confessional vein that puncture the secretive, less seemly aspects of their professions. In 1923, the stock speculator Jesse Livermore revealed to the author Edwin Lefevre the many underhanded secrets to his success as a trader. The book, ''Reminiscences of a Stock Operator,'' a tart, revealing roman a clef that is still read by traders, became the model for the tell-alls that followed, with varying degrees of success.
 In 1985, S. C. Gwynne wrote ''Selling Money,'' the story of his experiences as a naive 20-something banker lending millions to third-world countries during the international debt crisis. Five years later, Michael Lewis published ''Liar's Poker,'' his benchmark account of greed and power at Salomon Brothers, and in 2002, James J. Cramer took an unsuccessful stab at capturing some of Mr. Livermore's magic in his book, ''Confessions of a Street Addict.'' 
 Now, after Mr. Perkins's story, there has been a small flurry of like-minded revelations. This month, for example, Dan Reingold's ''Confessions of a Wall Street Analyst'' hit bookstores. Mr. Reingold, a former telecommunications analyst at Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch, describes his experiences navigating the conflicts between research and investment banking. And the genre shows no sign of flagging. Scheduled for next year is ''Dark Fiber,'' a tell-all by David Chacon, a broker at Smith Barney who has already talked about his role in providing hot stock offerings to prized clients of the bank.
 As with many public unburdenings, Mr. Reingold's and Mr. Chacon's stories are largely self-serving. In essence, they concede that while they may have crossed a line or two, their transgressions did not approach those of Jack B. Grubman, the former Smith Barney analyst who has been banned from the securities industry for life. 
 To varying degrees, the recent crop of books paints a picture of business and finance that is darkly cynical, rigged to enrich insiders at the expense of those on the outside. This theme is explored in depth by Paul Stiles, a former Merrill Lynch bond trader who last year offered a little-noticed book called ''Is the American Dream Killing You?''
 Published by Harper Collins, the book is a passionate outcry against the ravages that the pace and pressure of the market can wreak upon life and society. In particular, he cites urban sprawl, obesity, depression and even waning sex drives as the collateral damage of the American addiction to the helter-skelter rhythms of the stock market.
 It is an odd book, one that publishers probably would not have considered during the boom years. As for Mr. Stiles, who likened living in America to beating one's head repeatedly against the wall, he has packed up his family of four and abandoned the country for a new life in the Canary Islands. ''It's so painful to see. The sprawl, the greed,'' he said in a telephone interview, speaking of the United States. ''It's like an inward collapse of what we once were. I can't take it anymore. You see McDonald's and it's like you are getting shot.''
 For Mr. Perkins, a fundamentally optimistic man who has written self-help books about using shamanic techniques to get ahead in life, there has been no such renunciation. On the contrary, he has been traveling the country over the last 18 months, preaching his message to packed audiences at bookstores, universities and foreign-policy groups. With his innocent smile and a message of personal renewal, Mr. Perkins, who is 61, comes across more as a wizened yoga teacher than as a hit man. Dressed in jeans and a shabby sweater, he will urge members of his audience to close their eyes, breathe deeply and picture the world as a great octopus spraying a salubrious ink of natural resources and compassion to all on the planet.
 And while he will wrap up the occasional stranger in a back-cracking embrace, and inquire about a reporter's cough, he has a distant, awkward air amid the frenzy of adulation -- as if he would almost prefer to be somewhere else. 
 Mr. Perkins's coup has been to overlay a dry, mainstream notion -- that American companies and multinational institutions were less than discriminate in lending to third-world nations -- with sex, confession and fiery plane crashes. In his dramatic telling, he interviewed with the National Security Agency, joined the Peace Corps in Equador and then became an economic forecaster with a consulting company called Chas. T. Main, based in Boston. (Main was bought by the Parsons Corporation, the giant engineering company, in the 1980's.)
 In an early scene that sets the tone for the book, he describes being seduced by a mysterious Catherine Zeta-Jones look-alike who called herself Claudine Martin and supposedly worked at Main. In an interview, he said she plied him with cocaine, red wine and ultimately herself. ''We are a small exclusive club,'' she says in the book. ''Your job is to encourage world leaders to become part of a vast network that promotes U.S. commercial interests. In the end, those leaders become ensnared in a web of debt that ensures their loyalty.''
 In the book, Mr. Perkins recounts the nine years in which he worked for Main in the 1970's. From Ecuador to Panama, Iran to Saudi Arabia, the mission was the same: working in league with government agencies, Mr. Perkins claimed that he inflated the economic growth forecasts of these countries and smoothed the way for the billions in loans that they took on. Ultimately, he said, the funds were recycled to the United States as these countries became clients of big American engineering, construction and manufacturing companies, including Bechtel, Halliburton, Boeing and others.
 BUT in his telling, Mr. Perkins was constantly haunted by the feeling that he was in effect a hit man -- paid officially by his employer, Main Inc., but under the more oblique sway of the government and intelligence agencies. The son of a conservative New England family, he whips himself for having succumbed to pleasures of the flesh as well as the lure of money, influence and power. 
 In 1980, Mr. Perkins quit his job at Main. For much of the next two decades, he worked as a consultant, entrepreneur and specialist on the culture and practices of indigenous people of Latin America. After the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, he said, he felt that it was time to tell his story. After being turned down by bigger publishers, Berrett-Koehler took a chance and published the book in 2004. A best seller in hardcover, despite few mainstream book reviews, the book has sold as many as 5,500 copies a week in paperback.
 Mr. Perkins invests much of the story with earnest, pulpy touches. He writes of himself drinking beers and listening to Jimmy Buffett under magenta skies with beautiful women, meeting with disfigured dissidents in shantytowns outside of Tehran and absorbing the whispered warnings about the United States' imperial designs from Latin American leaders.
 Michael M. Thomas, a former investment banker and novelist of Wall Street manners, says a book's success will often be determined more by its voice than its subject. And for now, Mr. Perkins's message of conspiracy carries the perfect pitch for many readers -- no matter how fantastic his conclusions may be. 
 ''The odd side of our character is that we believe that dark powers are arranged against us -- call it the Da Vinci codes of finance,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''But really, I never heard of anybody being assassinated for lack of taking a loan.''
 Indeed, for all the book's success, Mr. Perkins has faced numerous questions about the veracity of some of his dreamier contentions. Earlier this month, for example, the State Department released a brief report called ''Confessions -- or Fantasies -- of an Economic Hit Man'' that took issue with one of Mr. Perkins' primary assertions: that the National Security Agency, with a wink and a nod, was aware of and may even have approved Mr. Perkins's hiring at Main.
 ''Perkins is apparently not aware that the National Security Agency is a cryptological (code-making and code-breaking) organization, not an economic organization,'' read the statement, which was released by the Bureau of International Information Programs. ''Neither of these missions involves anything remotely resembling placing economists at private companies in order to increase the debt of foreign countries.''
 WHILE Mr. Perkins and his publisher have provided documentation attesting to Mr. Perkins's employment at Main during the 1970's, a period in which the company indeed worked on many large infrastructure projects in Ecuador and the Middle East, it is hard to prove some of his fancier claims. These include, for example, that he arranged for a female friend of his to become a concubine for a Saudi prince and expensed the entire affair, that General Torrijos of Panama confided in him about his fear of being assassinated, or that private American corporations employ undercover operatives he calls ''jackals,'' whose tasks may include assassinating foreign leaders who don't do America's bidding.
 Moreover, Mr. Perkins has said that his first boss at Main, Einar Greve, was a liaison for the N.S.A. Mr. Greve, however, was quoted in a skeptical profile of Mr. Perkins in Boston Magazine last year as saying that he knew no one at the N.S.A. and that Mr. Perkins ''has convinced himself that a lot of this stuff is true.'' Mr. Greve did not respond to a message at his home seeking comment.
 The arc of Mr. Perkins's career seems to be described accurately. A check confirms that Mr. Perkins attended Middlebury College in the mid-1960's. And there is a record of the Iranian student, called Farhad by Mr. Perkins, who befriended the author before both men left Middlebury after a fight at a bar -- an incident described in the book.
 But in the wake of the controversy over James Frey, who embellished aspects of his own best-selling tale of personal redemption, ''A Million Little Pieces,'' one feels obliged to ask: Is it all true?
 Sitting in a hotel room in Chicago, Mr. Perkins is not offended by the question. Mr. Frey has ''fried us all,'' he said with a patient air and a soft laugh. But he says he has been wholly truthful: ''I'm not lying. Why would I lie? The incidents are out there.
 ''Our own government is lying to us,'' he added. ''Enron lied to us. Andersen lied to us,'' he said, referring to the accounting firm that audited Enron's financial books and shredded many documents related to those audits. 
 And what about those jackals? 
 ''I just talked to one this afternoon,'' Mr. Perkins said. ''He is on his way to Iraq on Monday.''
 And what exactly do they do? 
 ''Well, when the economic hit men fail, the second step is the jackals,'' he said. ''They try to overthrow governments, just like Kermit Roosevelt did.'' Kermit Roosevelt Jr., the grandson of President Theodore Roosevelt, led a Central Intelligence Agency campaign that overthrew Mohammed Mossadegh, the democratically elected prime minister of Iran, in 1953. 
 Unlike Mr. Roosevelt, today's operatives work for corporations, Mr. Perkins said. ''I suspect these were the guys that tried to overthrow Chavez in 2002,'' he added, referring to a failed coup against President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 To his broader point about the jackals, there is a blend of fact and speculation. Books have been written about Mr. Roosevelt's covert work in Iran; but what about corporate spooks in Iraq and Venezuela? So far, that seems largely to be Mr. Perkins's own particular notion -- one, albeit, that has fired the imagination of many of his readers.
 Instead of running from such questions, Mr. Perkins has faced them head-on, wearing them as a merit badge of sorts that gives weight to his crusade against the corporatocracy.
 At the Chicago bookstore, Mr. Perkins wrapped up his speech by connecting the work he did modernizing Saudi Arabia in the 1970's to the rage of Osama bin Laden, the Sept. 11 attacks and the turmoil in Iraq. He mentioned the growing crowds of admirers that have met him at his stops, adding that now, as opposed to last year, few are questioning the truthfulness of his account -- ''except, that is, a few journalists,'' he said, with an arch of his eyebrows, as he looked at a reporter in the crowd taking notes.
 The 200 or so fans erupted in sympathetic laughter. The joke was on the skeptic; having read the book, they, like Mr. Perkins, were insiders now, and all the smarter for it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''My sin was ripping off people around the world,'' said John Perkins, author of ''Confessions of an Economic Hit Man.'' He says he pushed countries to take on loans they would have trouble repaying. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
John M. Perkins spoke to a standing-room-only audience this month at Transitions, a bookstore in Chicago. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); ASSASSINATION (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); MURDER (72%); POLITICS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); EMERGING MARKETS (62%); BRIBERY (60%) Corporations; Books and Literature; United States Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Bribery; Corporations; United States Armament and Defense; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Royalties; Records and Achievements; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Corporations

PERSON: John Perkins; George W (Pres) Bush; Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); PANAMA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Latin America; Middle East; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



402 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1746 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, Day-Trading Like It's 1999

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
YUKA YAMAMOTO dutifully quit work to assume her expected role as suburban homemaker when she married six years ago. But she quickly grew bored at home, and when she saw a television program about online stock investing, she took $2,000 in savings and gave it a try.
 Today, Ms. Yamamoto says she has turned her initial investment into more than $1 million as a day trader, scanning her home computer for price movements in stocks, futures and foreign currencies that could lead to quick profits. And by writing books and holding seminars on trading strategies, she has also become a celebrity among homemakers who are investors. She says she has met thousands of other married women who now play the stock market online, many without their husbands' full knowledge.
Having overcome the country's sluggishness in embracing cyberspace and deregulating discount brokerage firms, day-trading has taken off in Japan, the world's second-largest financial market, after the United States. The number of accounts at Japan's electronic brokerage firms reached 7.9 million last September, up from 296,941 in 1999, when the first such firm opened, according to the Japan Security Dealers Association. That is an impressive gain, even after considering that some traders hold more than one account. 
 While Japan's business establishment still frowns on this new, rough-and-tumble style of trading, it has exploded in popularity among many who previously played only minor roles in Japan's corporate-dominated economy, particularly young people and women.
 ''Day-trading is great because everyone is equal, even housewives,'' said Mrs. Yamamoto, an energetic woman in her late 30's who declined to reveal her exact age or to document her trading profits. ''Success or failure depends entirely on how clever you are, and nothing else.''
 ANALYSTS say online investors are driving the soaring volume -- and volatility -- in Japan's resurgent stock markets. Internet trading, which did not exist before 1999, accounted for almost 29 percent of all equity trades in the six months that ended last September, according to the dealers association. 
 That more than accounts for all the increased trading during the Japanese market's rally. The leading Japanese stock index, the Nikkei 225, has risen about 40 percent since August. While all the short-term money sloshing around has helped Japanese stocks snap out of their decade-long slump, it is also creating new dangers, say analysts. Many recall how a similar fad in the United States in the late 1990's ended with many traders suffering substantial losses when the telecom and dot-com bubble burst. As the bull market turned, overleveraged speculators dumped their holdings, accelerating and exaggerating the decline in prices. 
 Something similar happened here last month, though on a much smaller scale, when prosecutors started an investigation of Livedoor, a Web portal company that had been a darling of Internet investors. The news set off an avalanche of sale orders -- most placed online, according to securities companies -- that shut down the computers at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the world's second-largest bourse, after the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Since the Tokyo exchange reopened, Livedoor's share price has been in free fall, dropping more than 90 percent in three weeks. The authorities in Tokyo filed charges last week against Livedoor's founder, Takafumi Horie, and three other former executives of his company, accusing them of spreading false information to inflate a subsidiary's stock price. 
 The exchange is racing to update its computers, but many analysts fear similar waves of panicked selling in the future. They also say that the rising popularity of online trading has coincided with an almost three-year rally in Japan's stock markets. It is easy to make money when prices are rising, they say. But day-trading may lose some of its luster in the next bear market.
 ''The real test will come when the market goes down,'' said Yukihiro Yabuki, a managing director for marketing at Matsui Securities, one of Japan's largest online brokerage firms. ''Will they abandon day-trading as soon as things get tough? Do they really understand the risks?''
 So far, Livedoor's fall has failed to dampen enthusiasm for online trading. That popularity is seen in the appearance of televised day-trading competitions and in books with titles like ''How a University Student Like Me Made 300 Million Yen in Internet Trading.''
 Looking to win more clients, online brokerage firms have begun setting up trading sites that offer cellphone access, with price charts shrunk to fit palm-sized screens. Brokerage firms say that these sites have allowed trading even from taxis or restaurants.
 The surge in day-trading has even created celebrities, including its own ''stock idol,'' a young woman named Maiko Asaba who poses in miniskirts for photographs in day-trading and stock investing magazines next to captions describing her fondness for ice cream and index futures.
 ''In Japan, every true subculture has celebrities,'' said Ms. Asaba, 28, a financial researcher and part-time day trader who keeps a giant teddy bear next to her trading terminal in her cramped Tokyo apartment.
 The dream of many day traders -- in Japan and in the United States -- is to earn enough to make a living by trading full time. Analysts and traders estimate that only a few thousand people have reached that mark.
 One is Yuta Mimura, a 22-year-old university senior. During the four-and-a-half hours each weekday that the Tokyo Stock Exchange is open, Mr. Mimura sits in his bedroom monitoring stock prices on three computer screens. He said he became hooked two years ago, after he put all his savings, $25,400, into shares trading at about 25 cents, and then watched the price jump to 45 cents in just two days. He said his parents, who are farmers, were opposed to his day-trading, but he appeased them by earning $127,000 in a month and using the money to renovate their home outside Nagoya.
 Over all, he said, he has made $2.54 million by trading stocks at home, enough to be invited to a New Year's party attended by a few dozen of Japan's biggest day traders. He said the group swapped trading tips at a hostess bar in Tokyo where $2,000 bottles of French liquor flowed, though he said he didn't know what kind it was.
 Mr. Mimura says that he wants to use his earnings to start his own investment company after college but that the allure of the stock market was more than the prospect of quick riches. Trading stocks, he said, offers freedoms that he wouldn't have had in a more traditional career path in Japan's rigidly hierarchical corporations: the independence to be his own boss, and to succeed or fail based on his own efforts. 
 ''Day-trading gives me a chance to stand on my own two feet,'' he said. ''Everything I do is up to me. That's a chance you don't often get in Japan.''
 The rise of online traders, as well as their go-it-alone ethic, has its critics. Many business leaders disdain the stock market as an unsavory money game, for example, while many others dislike stock trading because of a traditional dislike for greed and the bitter memories from the collapse of Japan's equity bubble in the early 1990's.
 ''The sight of housewives trading stocks on personal computers undermines the education of children,'' said Shunzo Morishita, the chief executive of NTT West, a phone company. ''Making money without sweating for it undermines the work ethic.''
 Against such attitudes, the biggest reason for the success of online trading here has been its anonymity, analysts say. Traditional brokerage firms scared away potential clientsbecause orders had to placed by phone, or face to face. The Internet allows the Japanese -- particularly women -- to trade in the privacy of their own homes hidden from the possibly disapproving gaze of neighbors and friends. People ''can trade without being embarrassed,'' said Mr. Yabuki of Matsui Securities.
 Mrs. Yamamoto says that her husband, a university professor, has not objected to her trading, but she says she still has to walk a fine line between her desire to trade and her role as wife and mother. To spend more time with her two small daughters, she has started using trading programs to buy or sell shares automatically at certain prices and has hired a secretary to handle her speaking schedule and appointments with publishers. (She says she has already written or contributed to 17 books on Internet trading.)
 Despite the public attention she has received, Mrs. Yamamoto said that she still hadn't revealed the full extent of her earnings to her husband, who insists on paying the family's bills from his modest university salary. ''He still thinks he's in charge,'' she said. ''He just thinks I'm going to lose all my earnings, or blow it on clothes.''
 Analysts and traders say that greater financial uncertainty, resulting from sweeping change in the Japanese economy, has also led to changing attitudes about stock investing. Years of deregulation and reforms have created a more competitive economy and eroded traditional social guarantees like lifelong corporate jobs. That may help explain why most account holders at online brokerage firms range in age from their 20's to early 40's, according to the Kinzai Research Institute, a financial research company. 
 ''We learn more about the real economy in our trading club than we do in class,'' said Kazuhiko Makita, a sophomore at Keio University who founded the Genesis Student Investing Club with five classmates a year ago. ''In the old days, when you could join a company for life, you didn't need to learn any real skills.''
 ONE online brokerage firm, Monex Beans Holdings, has even held after-school classes in stock trading for elementary and junior high school students who are accompanied by their parents. Monex said that about 2,300 students in that age group had already opened accounts at the brokerage firm, after getting their parents' permission.
 Analysts say young Japanese, as opposed to many of their elders, are starting to view the stock market in a much more positive light: as a legitimate way to make money.
 ''This is a real turning point for Japan,'' said Yoshiyuki Sayama, a researcher at the Kinzai Research Institute who has studied online trading. ''Japanese are learning how to take care of themselves financially. They are finally getting a real taste of capitalism.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Maiko Asaba has become a celebrity for her day-trading. She is featured in Japanese investing magazines. (Photo by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 When prosecutors started an investigation last month of Livedoor, a Web portal company, the news set off an avalanche of sale orders. Most of those orders were placed online, according to securities companies. (Photo by Shizuo Kambayashi/Associated Press)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ONLINE TRADING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); FUTURES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BONDS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); MARRIAGE (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Martin Fackler; Maiko Asaba

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



403 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: This Year, the First Round Goes to the Risk Takers

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
YOU can divide investors into two camps these days. There are those who think that the stock market will return so little that it doesn't pay to take any risk for now. And there are those who think that the market will return so little that you must embrace risk if you want any meaningful gains. 
 Who is correct? Both sides have compelling arguments, but for the moment, the risk takers are finding it easier to persuade the investing public.
That is because many types of stocks that are considered risky -- based on factors like valuations, volatility and recent performance -- have generally continued to produce much bigger gains than less-volatile stocks. Shares of companies based in the emerging markets, for instance, have continued to beat those in the developed economies of Europe. Back in the United States, small-capitalization stocks are still confounding market strategists, who have long been saying that investors should reduce risk by sticking with shares of large blue-chip companies. So far this year, however, the Russell 2000 index of small stocks has surged 8.6 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index of large-cap stocks is up just 3.1 percent. In other words, the market has kept rewarding risk takers -- and handsomely so. 
 Bernie Schaeffer, the chairman of Schaeffer's Investment Research, who is in the risk-taking camp, says he thinks that this trend will continue -- at least until the bull market ends. And if investors can earn more than 4 percent in risk-free cash, he said, ''what's the incentive for investing in an underperforming asset'' like large-cap stocks, when such shares, on average, are expected to produce only mid-single-digit returns?
 But those who are more risk-averse say they have plenty of reasons to be concerned. 
 In recent months, the market has ''been stuck in a trading range '' said Ernest M. Ankrim, chief investment strategist at the Russell Investment Group in Tacoma, Wash. ''And in a trading-range market,'' he added, ''trends can be deceiving.''
 Look beneath the surface, he said, and you'll find that riskier assets are not doing all that well. Among the best-performing industry groups in 2006, Mr. Ankrim noted, are agriculture and steel -- not the types that generally attract the most aggressive investors. The worst-performing groups have included online retailers and online service companies, which have been volatile holdings in recent years.
 Chris Orndorff, head of equity strategy at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles, says he thinks that speculation has yet to be fully wrung out of the market, but that the risks investors are taking ''are a little more discerning.'' 
 ''The difference between this year and a couple of years ago,'' he said, ''is that people are not losing sight of valuations.'' In recent weeks, for instance, there have been major sell-offs in expensive stocks, like Google, that failed to meet earnings expectations. This leads him to believe that investors aren't willing to give their investments, especially riskier ones, a long leash.
 So how can long-term equity investors take on enough risk to reap some of the market's rewards while still being able to sleep at night?
 A simple way is to consider valuations within all asset classes. Investors who still want to bet that small caps will beat large caps, for example, may feel more comfortable betting on less-expensive small stocks. 
 Over the last three years, the average small-cap stock fund returned 26.8 percent a year, on average. But funds that stuck with small stocks trading at below-average price-to-earnings ratios returned 27.6 percent. And by some measures, these funds were less volatile.
 Investors may want to consider another strategy: hanging on to their winners -- in this case, small-cap or emerging-markets shares -- for a bit longer. 
 That may seem dangerous, given the importance of booking profits periodically. But Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.& P., recently studied this issue and found that it's often better to follow the adage of letting your winners run and cutting your losers short.
 Mr. Stovall examined how stocks in the best-performing industry groups each year perform during the next year. Since 1970, an investor who bought a portfolio of the previous year's best-performing industry groups, held it for a year and then repeated the process, would have earned nearly 14 percent a year. That is nearly twice the average annual gain of the S.& P. 500 during that 36-year stretch. 
 To be sure, it is important to rebalance your portfolio periodically so that you sell some winners and buy losers to reduce overall risk.
 But Mr. Stovall says that you can do this while still giving your winners more room to run. Instead of selling highflying small stocks just because a year has passed, for example, consider setting a target for them, as well as for your other asset classes. If you have 25 percent of your portfolio in small stocks, wait until that allocation changes by 5 to 10 percentage points before rebalancing. In other words, you might let them grow to, say, 35 percent of your portfolio before doing some trimming. 
 Finally, the risk takers and the risk-averse agree on one tactic in the current market: holding onto a chunk of cash.
 Mr. Schaeffer says investors should hold more cash today than they usually do -- though he contends that they should embrace risk elsewhere in their portfolios. The cash provides a buffer for those bets, as well as more flexibility to move into alternate assets if they become more attractive. 
 Under normal circumstances, investors would look to add to their bond holdings for extra ballast. But Mr. Schaeffer argues that the bond market is so overvalued that ''the return is not worth the risk.'' For example, in the Treasury market, long-term bonds, which expose investors to greater risk because of their longer maturities, are paying lower yields than short-term debt.
 NICK NANDA, an asset allocation specialist at GMO in Boston, says he also believes that cash is important, but for a different reason. Mr. Nanda is in the risk-averse camp, largely because GMO is forecasting that most asset classes will disappoint, after adjustment for inflation. 
 For instance, the firm expects domestic stocks of all sizes to lose value, after inflation, over the next seven years. GMO doesn't expect foreign stocks to do much better, although it predicts that emerging markets may manage real gains of about 3 percent a year. 
 In a time of such meager expectations, ''cash is a very good investment right now,'' he said. 
 Mr. Stovall likens risk-taking today to the plight of a frog sitting in a cold pot of water on the stove. ''You know the pot is gradually getting hotter,'' he said, ''but you're not willing to jump out just yet.'' 
 Of course, it's almost impossible to know the right moment to jump out of this pot. But some extra dollops of cash may let you stew in it a bit longer.

 VOLATILITY+: 12

FUND TYPE: Large-cap
Y.T.D. RETURN*
Value: 3.79
VOLATILITY+: 10
Growth: 2.95
VOLATILITY+: 11

* Performance figures are through Thursday. + Figures represent average standard deviation, a measure of volatility. The higher the number, the more volatile an asset is said to be.

(Source by Morningstar)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Risky Business''So far this year, the best-performing types of equity funds have generally been those that invest in high-volatility stocks.FUND TYPE: Diversified emerging marketsY.T.D. RETURN*: 9.73%VOLATILITY+: 16FUND TYPE: Precious metalsY.T.D. RETURN*: 8.80VOLATILITY+: 29FUND TYPE: Small-capY.T.D. RETURN*Growth: 8.13VOLATILITY+: 16Value: 6.76VOLATILITY+: 14FUND TYPE: Mid-capY.T.D. RETURN*Growth: 5.89VOLATILITY+: 13Value: 4.36

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (55%); PAYDEN & RYGEL (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (52%) WASHINGTON, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



404 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: The Model President

BYLINE: By KEVIN BAKER. 
Kevin Baker is the author, most recently, of the historical novel ''Strivers Row.''

 BODY:
LINCOLN
 A Life of Purpose and Power.
 By Richard Carwardine.
 Illustrated. 394 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.50.
 LINCOLN IN THE TIMES
 The Life of Abraham Lincoln as
 Originally Reported in The New York Times.
 Edited by David Herbert Donald 
 and Harold Holzer.
 Illustrated. 413 pp. St. Martin's Press. $29.95.
TODAY we look to television for our presidential ideals. Practically the only programs on network TV that are not yet ''reality based'' are those weighty dramas set in the White House. The presidents and would-be presidents, portrayed by the likes of Martin Sheen, Geena Davis, Jimmy Smits and Alan Alda, are fantastically wise, eloquent, decisive, patient, capable, hard-working, sympathetic and open-minded. They are also quietly devout family men and women, with resumes that sound unlikely for candidates built to survive the modern primary system; Davis's president is a former college president, Sheen's a Nobel Prize-winning economist. They even have perfect physiques; with the obvious exception of Sheen (good-looking enough in his youth to play Bobby Kennedy), they are tall, wiry and hard-bodied. 
 Most Americans would probably not be surprised to learn that once upon a time such a model president actually walked the hustings -- or that his name was Abraham Lincoln. Our fascination with Lincoln, the man, has rarely waned since his death, and he long ago became the tabula rasa upon which we inscribe our obsessions of the moment. In our current preoccupation with the couch and the bedroom, we want to know how Lincoln dealt with his depression or -- the most compelling question of all -- if he might have been bisexual.
 In ''Lincoln: A Life of Purpose and Power,'' the British historian Richard Carwardine makes it refreshingly clear from his title on that he is more interested in Lincoln the politician. It's not that Lincoln's political abilities have escaped notice. Most recently, Doris Kearns Goodwin, in ''Team of Rivals,'' told the overdue story of how Lincoln, as president, was able to mold the oversize, contentious personalities in his cabinet into a remarkably effective unit. But Carwardine provides a more comprehensive study of how an essentially good man could gain and wield power, even in scoundrel time.
 Lincoln came of age in a period of almost continuous, rough-and-tumble electioneering, an era when ''men turned out to vote in proportions rarely matched by Americans before or since.'' He proved himself early on to be a political master of this roiling frontier world. Perhaps our oddest contemporary misconception of Lincoln is that he should serve as a model of persistence through failure. Carwardine points out that ''only once in his political career did he lose an election when his name was on the ballot'' and even then he carried his own town -- the friends and neighbors who knew him best -- by a vote of 227-3. When he was not serving in the Illinois Legislature or the United States Congress, he was usually out making very good money as a lawyer, and his absences from office were often strategic.
 We persist in wanting to see greatness thrust upon our heroes -- some vestigial, republican idea of virtue. In fact, as Carwardine makes clear, Lincoln was an agent of his own destiny. Like most of our greatest politicians -- Washington, Jefferson, both Roosevelts -- he both consciously sought after power and possessed a rare sense of timing. In an era of extremes, he was able to position himself as an unyielding moderate, outmaneuvering many men who thought themselves more clever simply by standing on principle. His goal was always the preservation of the Union -- yet he was pragmatic enough to understand, as the war went on, how this end had become inextricably interwoven with the end of slavery. 
 In dissecting Lincoln's triumph, Carwardine has provided us with a democratic version of Machiavelli's ''Prince,'' a primer on how power can and should be won and used in a free society. Lincoln, he shows us, expertly employed both the machinery of his new party and the authority of his office. He preferred peaceful and lawful means to his ends, but he did not hesitate to press constitutional bounds to the breaking point -- for instance, suspending habeas corpus, shutting down the occasional newspaper and detaining thousands of Southern sympathizers -- in the desperate struggle to keep the nation together. 
 He was the original Great Communicator, unsurpassed then, and certainly today, 
 as a debater and a ''spellbinding'' speaker of ''unequaled eloquence.'' He was capable of giving a 90-minute, extemporaneous address so riveting that listening reporters forgot to keep taking notes. His audiences, Carwardine says, felt an ''electric thrill'' and were transported by his ''tone of earnest truthfulness, of elevated, noble sentiment and of kindly sympathy.'' He wrote his own masterly speeches, and could quote readily from both Shakespeare and the Bible. He rarely stooped to the politics of insult or abuse, but appealed primarily to his audience's ''sense of justice and loyalty to the ideals of the Declaration of Independence''; he was ''remarkably free from hate.'' Apart from his speeches, he wrote innumerable public and private letters to influential newspaper editors and leading churchmen, and even to the workingmen of Manchester and London, England, when he thought it would further the Union cause. 
 Lincoln ran an amazingly open presidency, even for the time. He was inundated with endless streams of well-wishers, advice givers, office seekers. He met as many as he could, claiming to enjoy these ''public opinion baths.'' They enabled him both to gauge the mood of the nation and to build support for his policies. They also gave him the chance to do something he loved to do, tell a joke or an anecdote. The troops he visited frequently in their hospitals and camps were devoted to him, delighted by his unaffected appearance and his personal attention to their needs. Carwardine estimates that ''Lincoln held perhaps 2,000 or more private interviews with Union soldiers,'' and they in turn formed an invaluable bloc of voters and boosters.
 Carwardine, whose previous books include ''Evangelicals and Politics in Antebellum America,'' lingers longest on Lincoln's considerable ability to rally evangelical Northern Protestants to the flag by nourishing the millennial belief that they were God's chosen people, defending what was truly ''the last, best hope on earth'' against ''all the powers of hell.'' This was no mean feat, coming from a man who had been suspected of agnosticism or atheism for most of his life. Yet by the end, while still a religious skeptic, Lincoln, too, seemed to equate the preservation of the Union and the freeing of the slaves with some higher, mystical purpose.
 This is the spooky Lincoln, the politician who can send a small chill up the spine. Considering the repulsiveness of the cause he opposed (no, it wasn't ''states' rights'') and the universal hope offered by American democracy in the 19th and 20th centuries, it is easy to understand such feelings. But one feels a good deal queasier contemplating a president less thoughtful and tempered than Lincoln, who enjoys a special relationship with our armed forces, is willing to play fast and loose with the Constitution and justifies his policies as part of God's great plan.
 IF Carwardine has written an illuminating and thoroughly intelligent assessment of Lincoln the politician, it is difficult to understand any need at all for ''Lincoln in The Times: The Life of Abraham Lincoln as Originally Reported in The New York Times.'' It was edited by the prize-winning Lincoln scholars David Herbert Donald, the author of the biography ''Lincoln,'' and Harold Holzer, the author of ''Lincoln at Cooper Union.'' But the collection could have used a larger contribution from both men, beyond the short introductions and limited commentary they provide. Little writing of note is reproduced here, and much of what is included is not actually reports by Timesmen, but rather verbatim communications and proclamations by Lincoln and others. Though it's amusing, for instance, to see the 17 separate subheads under the headline proclaiming ''Victory!'' for Lincoln's Union-Republican coalition in 1864, they don't tell us very much.
 Worse, however, are the editors' failures to include much on the terrible draft riots of 1863, in the very city in which The Times was being published, or more than a few passing references to the paper's founder, Henry J. Raymond, one of the most intrepid journalists of his day. Deeply skeptical of Lincoln at first, Raymond became his most steadfast supporter in the city, and national chairman of his 1864 re-election campaign. Such a conflict of interest would give The Times's public editor apoplexy today, but Raymond was the type to stick -- literally -- to his guns. During the riots, he faced down hostile mobs by mounting Gatling guns in The Times's windows, manned by Raymond himself and his co-owner, the stock speculator and sportsman Leonard Jerome, better remembered as Winston Churchill's grandfather. Now that sounds to me like a story fit to print.


GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Mathew Brady)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); HISTORY (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Kevin Baker; Richard Carwardine; David Herbert Donald; Harold Holzer; Abraham (1809-65) Lincoln

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



405 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: A Rumor of War

BYLINE: By VENDELA VIDA. 
Vendela Vida is the author of ''And Now You Can Go,'' a novel, and the editor of ''The Believer Book of Writers Talking to Writers.''

 BODY:
WHITE GHOST GIRLS
 By Alice Greenway.
 168 pp. Black Cat/Grove/Atlantic. Paper, $13
Thin first novels can be deceptive; we often assume they're short because the author has chosen a small subject that doesn't warrant a heftier page count, a broader spine. But Alice Greenway's debut novel, ''White Ghost Girls,'' set in Hong Kong during the Vietnam War, tackles a host of weighty subjects -- war, Communism, the end of innocence -- in 168 terse pages. In fact, one of Greenway's accomplishments is that she has taken on so much with such restraint. The result is a sensual, haunting story of sibling love, danger and infatuation with the unknown. 
 The narrator, the reticent Kate, who is 12, and her teenage sister, the boisterous Frankie, are American girls living in Hong Kong in the summer of 1967. Their father, Michael, a photographer for Time magazine, spends most of each month in Vietnam. When he's home, he develops his pictures and the girls sneak into his darkroom, which becomes a depository for all things related to the war: a Vietnamese-English dictionary, slivers of shrapnel from his leg, a stolen AK-47. Kate describes how he ''tacks his photographs up on the walls of his darkroom, a former laundry room. A soldier shoots through the open door of a Huey. 'Squirrel hunting,' my father's scribbled underneath. A tall, 
 sad-faced marine lifts an old Vietnamese woman from the rubble of a burned-out house. The woman's arms stick out stiffly, as if she's scared of being touched. 'Saving Tuyet Diem,' my father's written.''
 In contrast, Kate and Frankie's mother, Marianne, uses art to escape the realities of war. When the girls swim in the harbor she sits on a nearby junk, painting landscapes in watercolor. ''My mother's paintings are nostalgic, suggestive,'' Kate recounts. ''They conjure a mythical past, an alternative present, one my father would be happy to indulge in if it wasn't for the war. A world she'd like us, her children, to believe in too.''
 But while many other expatriates are leaving Hong Kong, Marianne chooses to keep the family in East Asia. If she returns to the United States without Michael, he might fall ''in love with Vietnamese women, or just with the war itself. Or with the country, green as a parrot's wing.'' The family stays, and their world is populated by intriguing characters: the girls' Chinese nanny, Ah Bing, who prays to the goddess Kuan Yin to protect her from Kate and Frankie, whom she calls ''houh hoi,'' little whores; a fisherman who uses a dinghy to haul the swimming sisters away from a drowned body that rises to the surface of the ocean; and a deaf Chinese boy named Fish whose voice warbles when he speaks, and who is patiently in love with Kate.
 Amid the bamboo groves and leaves of elephant's-ear just beyond their garden, Kate and Frankie act out the parts of American soldiers and Viet Cong. Soon enough, however, the Cultural Revolution comes so close that they're no longer playing a game of pretend; they become unwitting agents in the death of an innocent. While in the market one day with Ah Bing, the sisters watch a demonstration -- Red Guards demanding support 
 for Chairman Mao. The girls escape from Ah Bing as the tensions escalate: ''Merchants scuffle with Red Guards who grab their fruits and vegetables to throw at the police. . . . 'We better go!' Frankie yells, jumping down off the engine. She has to shout over the noise of the crowd and the drums. She's grinning, her eyes ablaze. This is the real thing. Something we'll read about in tomorrow's paper. It's what we want, to get close, to see the Red Guards, all the things my father doesn't tell us about Vietnam.'' 
 But their curiosity leads them into a collision with something too real. Cornered by a pair of men, they're shoved into a butcher stall. Kate is given a bag that the men insist she bring to a police boat by the shore. The pudgier of the two says it's full of litchis, a gift to the police captain. ''You no come back,'' Kate is told, ''you no big sister!'' Kate tries to deliver the bag, but the police pier is cordoned off. Unable to bear its weight, Kate drops the bag in an empty oil can. As she flees, she hears an explosion behind her, followed by shouts and a scream. When Kate returns to the butcher stall, Frankie is furious with her for leaving. From this moment forward, the sisters, who once shared everything, begin to keep secrets from one another. Though Frankie claims she was able to keep the men off her, Kate suspects otherwise. And Kate, who learns from the newspaper that the bomb killed an innocent woman and badly burned a boy, discloses her role in the blast to no one. 
 The day of the explosion has far-reaching and heart-rending effects on the sisters, especially Frankie. She becomes unpredictable and flamboyantly sexual, flirting with her father's friends and seducing a boy she barely knows. Kate believes she can save her sister by confiding in their father what happened at the market. But each time she tries, her father is too preoccupied to listen, or else Frankie intervenes, soliciting attention. Kate blames herself, and her own taciturnity, for what ultimately happens to her sister.
 In ''White Ghost Girls,'' two sisters are torn between silence and the chaos of war. As Kate explains, ''We have to ferret out the stories my father doesn't tell, fill in the relevant facts, the things we need to know.'' Greenway employs brevity and marmoreal prose, trusting the reader to fill in the relevant facts -- something many first-time novelists lack the courage to do. This is a brave and artful book, not less powerful for its economy, but perhaps even more so because of it.


GRAPHIC: Drawings: (Drawings Gregory Nemec)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); MAMMALS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); PAINTING (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Vendela Vida; Alice Greenway

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (91%); HONG KONG (91%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



406 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: An Actor Embraces a New Role: Calligrapher

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
JANE LABANZ works in two very different worlds of scripts.
 As an actress, singer and dancer, Ms. Labanz has appeared in about 30 theatrical productions -- in supporting roles in some, in the ensemble in others -- mostly in regional theaters and national tours of Broadway shows. Her credits over the last 15 years include ''Cats,'' ''The Music Man,'' ''The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas'' and ''The King and I.''
As a calligrapher and artist, Ms. Labanz has been center stage at the Delicate Pen, a one-woman business she founded a decade ago that produces custom invitations for weddings and other occasions. This newer career, which she practices out of studios in her homes in Manhattan and Amenia, N.Y., originated as a way to fill the down times that are a frequent part of her older career. 
 While performing in a national tour of ''Cats'' in the mid-1990's, Ms. Labanz said recently, she taught herself calligraphy between performances and in her backstage interludes during the shows. She soon found that members of the cast were willing to pay her to apply her new talent in addressing envelopes for their wedding invitations. That encouraged her to move on to producing greeting cards. ''I sold them to local stores in the towns I was in,'' she said.
 By the time she had finished a two-year run in the role of Jellylorum, she had staked out the beginnings of a second career, even obtaining a New York business license in 1996. 
 But Ms. Labanz knew that she could not continue to ad-lib in her new business. She sought direction from the New York City chapter of Score, a group of retired and active businesspeople who, working with the federal Small Business Administration, volunteer to provide free counseling to owners and aspiring owners of small businesses. ''I asked for advice on how to do a trade show,'' she said. 
 In 1998, she participated in the annual National Stationery Show in Manhattan, where Kate's Paperie, the paper-centered gift store, agreed to sell her line of hand-designed greeting cards.
 But the cards involved too much work for the return, Ms. Labanz said, and for the 1999 show she shifted to a new track. She designed a line of custom invitations, place cards, menus and program covers for weddings and bar mitzvahs that she hoped to sell through high-end stores, where customers could view albums of her offerings and place their orders. The stores in such arrangements get a percentage of the sales price. Ms. Labanz said she reached deals with 40 stores.
 Ms. Labanz fills an order by hand-lettering a master copy of the wording -- employing swooping and swirling flourishes -- and sending that copy to a printer, who reproduces it on the invitations and other items. Then, she hand-paints the floral and other designs the customer has chosen on each invitation, one at a time, she said. 
 The labor-intensive work makes her product expensive, Ms. Labanz said. Her invitation sets -- the invitations, R.S.V.P. cards and reply envelopes -- cost about $1,700 to $7,000 per 100 sets.
 Despite the prices, in 2000 -- her first full year of producing custom invitations -- she had $150,000 in sales, she said. She considered that good and looked forward to still better years. But the Sept. 11 attack led to a sharp reduction in the planning of elegant weddings and other events in New York, Ms. Labanz said, and her sales in 2002 plunged to about half the 2000 level. She persisted, though, and in 2004 and last year, sales were nearly back to the 2000 level, she said. 
 These days her products are offered at more than 30 stores across the country, including, in New York City, Bloomingdale's, Kate's Paperie and the Michael C. Fina gift store.
 Ms. Labanz said she had finished each year in the black, even in the post-9/11 trough. Working in home studios has kept her costs down. At the busiest times, her husband, Paul Mallick, an artist, pitches in to paint, and she hires part-time help to package her orders, but ''not to letter or paint,'' she said.
 If her business is to grow, she has to consider hiring people to help letter and paint, said Al Korn, chairman of the New York City chapter of Score, who is currently advising Ms. Labanz. ''If you get an order for 1,000 invitations, you're not going to do it by yourself,'' he said.
 But whatever the next act for her invitation business, Ms. Labanz said, she does not foresee forsaking the footlights. ''I have two careers,'' she said, and ''I'm balancing them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: SECOND CAREER -- Jane Labanz taught herself calligraphy between performances and during backstage interludes while she was performing in a national tour of ''Cats.'' (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); THEATER (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); DANCERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DANCE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (70%); WOMEN (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (66%) Handwriting

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Jane Labanz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



407 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; IN PERSON; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: A Program Built From the Ice Up

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
JEFF KAMPERSAL rapped his hockey stick repeatedly against the sideboards at Baker Rink. The players on the Princeton University women's hockey team were already skating fast enough to cause the ponytails at the back of their helmets to flutter, but their coach wanted more speed.
 ''Skate! Skate! Skate!'' shouted Kampersal, who stood on skates and was dressed in a black sweat suit and had a black stocking cap pulled low on his bald head.
The air in the rink on this February morning was damp and frosty, and the Tigers would board a bus after practice for a trip that included two tough games. Still, Kampersal wanted them to get in a brief -- but tough --workout. His players obliged.
 ''Oh, he definitely has a tough side,'' said Heather Jackson, a senior forward from Exeter, N.H., who is a politics major. ''He's tough on us when he needs to be, but he's got a softer side, too. These girls have nothing but good things to say about him.'' 
 It would be hard for anyone to second-guess Kampersal's coaching style, which his players say is more uplifting and challenging than it is intimidating and ruthless. The Tigers had a 15-6-4 record going into this weekend, and were ranked fifth nationally in two women's hockey polls.
 Kampersal, 36, in his 10th year as the Tigers' coach, is hoping to lead Princeton to its third 20-victory season in the last four years. The Tigers believe they are capable of winning the school's first N.C.A.A. hockey title next month. 
 ''Everyone gets along really, really well,'' said Tarah Clark, a senior economics and finance major from Toronto. ''People care. I definitely think we have a chance.''
 Baker Rink, with its stone walls and orange seats, is a cathedral for college hockey. The rink is named after Hobey Baker, class of 1914, a legendary football and hockey star at Princeton who died in an airplane crash after World War I.
 The nation's top men's collegiate player wins the Hobey Baker Award. The nation's top female collegiate hockey player wins the Patty Kazmaier Award, named after the 1986 Princeton graduate who died of a rare blood disease in 1990.
 Kampersal has built a program founded on hockey's tradition at Princeton. He has more than a passing knowledge of how important the sport is on campus. A psychology major, he graduated from Princeton in 1992.
 He knows exactly what it is like to play hockey at Princeton, a demanding Ivy League university that does not award athletic scholarships, because he did it himself. He knows when to push his team, and when to back off, in part because he can relate.
 ''My freshman year, I didn't realize how hard it was,'' he said before practice, ''and I got a slap in the face really early. One of my teammates, Sean Gorman, helped me out, but I've been anxious, just like these players are sometimes.''
 After a pause, he said, ''Sometimes, the buildings used to spin around, my freshman year. I would leave practice to go back home at 5 or 6 o'clock, and I couldn't remember how to get there. That used to get me out of sorts a little bit.
 ''I finally figured that if it took me four hours to write a paper that someone else could write in one hour, that's the way it would be.''
 By his senior year, he was the captain of the team and an all-Ivy League and an all-Eastern College Athletic Conference selection. A 10th-round draft choice, he was talented enough to try out for the New York Islanders.
 Kampersal, a defenseman, played for two Islander minor league affiliates, but his professional career lasted only one season. He returned to New Jersey to coach a youth hockey team, the Rockets, for three years.
 Before the 1996-97 season, he was asked to coach the women's team at Princeton. As he recalled, ''I was sort of like a stopgap option. I'd do it for a year or two and help them out.''
 The Tigers advanced to the E.C.A.C. tournament quarterfinals in each of his first three seasons. Kampersal, who is single, built a foundation based on relentless recruiting. The 23-woman roster includes players from nine states and four Canadian provinces.
 ''Sometimes, I'll be recruiting in the middle of nowhere, and my buddies are going out for the night in New York City, so it can burn you out,'' Kampersal said. ''Starting coaching at 26 hasn't helped my social life so much.''
 To be able to play hockey well is not enough. A prospect needs to qualify academically to gain admittance to Princeton. ''We compete for the same 10 or 12 kids every year,'' Kampersal said of the recruiting battles among top-level women's coaches. ''If we miss out on a top-notch defenseman, there might not be another one out there. We're not restricted by the area. We've got to go out and find the best players possible.''
 Princeton has a lot to offer, of course, but his players say Kampersal does a very effective job of pitching the university, because he went there.
 ''He definitely knew a whole lot more about the school than the coaches of the other schools I was looking at,'' said Chrissie Norwich, a senior defenseman from Bloomington, Minn., who is a politics and international relations major.
 High school hockey is huge in Minnesota. Norwich was used to playing at Jefferson High before large crowds that included her parents. A women's game at Baker Rink rarely draws more than 200 fans.
 ''You get used to seeing friendly faces in the stands every game,'' Norwich said, smiling.
 Women's hockey is one of 38 varsity sports at Princeton, but Kampersal and his players are responsible for raising funds. The team has sold cookies, Norwich said. Players have sold admission to the parking lots at certain Princeton football games. ''Coaching seems to be a small percentage of what we do,'' Kampersal said.
 Because of the school calendar, the Tigers' schedule is not quite conducive to gaining momentum. They played 15 games before taking three weeks off for the holidays. They played four games in January before taking a two-week break for exams.
 As he has built a winning program, Kampersal has collected accolades. He has served on the coaching staff at the last three Women's Select Festivals. He worked at the National Women's Festival last summer, where the 2006 United States . Olympic women's hockey team was chosen.
 ''I think what it comes down to with Jeff is that he's an effective communicator,'' said Princeton's athletic director, Gary Walters, who hired Kampersal.
 Sometimes, he said, tension among female athletes does not dissipate as quickly as tension among male athletes. And young women like to watch different movies on the team bus than their male counterparts do, but coaching a women's team is essentially the same.
 Kampersal now has a veteran team that thinks it has a chance to win the biggest tournament of all. ''It's always a bummer to lose,'' he said, ''but it doesn't faze us as much.''
 Neither, it seems, do skating drills on cold mornings in February, when the coach is rapping his stick on the sideboards to coax a little more speed from his players. Representing a famous university, after all, can only produce so much energy.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Kampersal, coach of Princeton's women's hockey team, was a hockey star for the Tigers as an undergraduate. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); RANKINGS (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WORLD WAR I (61%); BLOOD DISORDERS (50%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%) Hockey, Ice; Coaches and Managers; Biographical Information; Women

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (96%) Princeton University

PERSON: jeff kampersal; Dave Caldwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



408 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Say, Pal, Can You Spare a BMW?

BYLINE: By KEVIN CAHILLANE. 
Kevin Cahillane is a writer based in Summit.

 BODY:
LAST night, as I tucked my 3-year-old son into bed after reading him ''Go, Dog. Go!'' he asked if we could go car shopping the next day. 
 ''And what kind of car would you like?'' I asked him.
''An expensive one,'' he said. 
 So it begins.
 We live in Summit, where the average household income is approaching $200,000, according to census figures, and the Mall at Short Hills, less than a mile away, beckons like the mother ship. 
 Since my family only has riches of the most proverbial kind (health, happiness, blah, blah, blah), I often find myself coveting my neighbors' pristine lawns and Corinthian leather lives from afar while occasionally stealing their Wall Street Journals under cover of darkness. While I don't necessarily believe that money can buy happiness, I'm willing to give it a shot. Perhaps my son is simply following his father in the shallow end of the gene pool.
 Luckily, Summit is not all robber barons and fat cats. In fact, there's an ever-diminishing corner of the city akin to the so-called slums of Beverly Hills, where middle-income homeowners like me can take advantage of the schools and services of Summit without the million-dollar price tags so ubiquitous on the other side of the Midtown Direct tracks. Even so, one of my neighbors has vanity license plates on his twin S.U.V.'s that read, ''ACHIEVE'' and ''SUCCESS.'' Maybe Tony Robbins lives there. 
 Still, I must confess to a certain shame in being a five-figure guy in a six- and seven-figure town. Try as I might, I can't shake certain trailer-trash tendencies. In a world of minivans and winter tans, my 1992 Ford Taurus seems to announce my station in life upon arrival. And my Christmas lights are still twinkling in February. My name may as well be Earl. Help is on the way, though, because I just got an e-mail from this guy in Liberia who, well, that's all I can say for now. 
 While my plight may not move you, there is a growing divide between Summit's haves and have-nots that just might. The real estate boom has created a gulf of economic disparity in Summit and similar suburbs. The working classes are being priced out, and there will soon be no wrong side of town in which the huddled masses can live and prosper. Which leads, in turn, to a more economically, racially and ideologically homogenized populace. Now, I'm no sociologist, but I can say for certain that this is not a welcome prospect. 
 Jordan Glatt, Summit's mayor, addressed the problem in his State of the City address last month. ''I will work tirelessly to obtain, provide and build more affordable, low- and moderate-income housing in this community,'' he said. 
 While this may sound like a moral prerogative, it is also a mandate from the state. Summit, to be in compliance with the Fair Housing Act, owes New Jersey more affordable housing units and was sued last year by a developer who proposed a cluster of condominiums carved into one of the city's bucolic hillsides. While the suit was subsequently settled, Summit is now rushing to coordinate a ''housing master plan'' to avoid being held hostage by future litigious developers. 
 Whatever the plan, one thing is certain: They're not making any more land, and land in Summit does not come cheap. I should know. I have my own overextended patch of crabgrass at the edge of town that keeps me up nights. Well, that and the late-night movies on Cinemax.
 Ultimately, I don't care much about keeping up with the Joneses, much less the Corzines and the Cramers. I just want my kids to get better grades than theirs. (And perhaps to grow taller with freakish strength, but I don't want to be greedy.) Because the fact remains that I could live in a shoe. I require less maintenance than a new Lexus. But, as my neighbor Jeff -- who, like me, has three small children and one Everest of a mortgage -- recently noted, ''It's not about you anymore.'' 
 So while I'm no longer the center of the universe, I do own the keys to my castle -- or will in 28 years. And while I may be delusional to think that I can swing it in Summit, I find it a great source of motivation that the earth could swallow me whole at any moment. But I do love it here, even if the paperboy drives a BMW. Perhaps it is inevitable to love the place where your children grow up. Anyway, I know what I have to do now, courtesy of my son's bedtime story:
 ''Work, Dog. Work!''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); CHRISTMAS (62%); CENSUS (57%) Life Styles 

PERSON: Kevin Cahillane

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%) Summit (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



409 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Area Code, Sweet Area Code

BYLINE: By MAGGIE MASTER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
JAY works in communications for a Washington think tank, but if you want to give him a ring, try Boston. Samantha studies international relations in Dupont Circle, but you'll have to call San Francisco to find her. Michele has been a congressional aide on Capitol Hill for nearly four years, but ask for her number, and you'll be calling Starkville, Miss. 
 In a city known for its revolving door of young professionals, graduate students and eager-eyed Hill staffers, many a mobile phone number proves that home is where the cell is.
Like a rear-windshield decal or an old college T-shirt, a cellphone number has become as much a part of an identity as a Social Security number. It represents a hometown, a college or a first job, and such memories are not casually thrown aside for a few good years with a 202 romance. For these area-code clingers, those 10 little digits provide a constant in the face of changing locations and uncertain futures. 
 And, hey, it's great small talk.
 ''It's totally like a networking thing,'' said Ashley Kizler, 23, a native of Richmond, Va. A forensic psychology graduate student with a cheerleader's spunk, Ms. Kizler is a bit of a social butterfly, not to mention an ardent champion of the prefix 804.
 ''You find someone else who has an 804 area code, and you're, like: 'Hey! What's going on! Richmond? Yeah!' '' Ms. Kizler howled in a show of hometown pride.
 Jay Heidbrink, 27, sees a person's cellphone number as a standout feature in a city where people are usually identified by what they do and where they work.
 ''You meet a lot of new people in D.C., and so you hand out your number a lot,'' Mr. Heidbrink said. ''When it's not a 202 number they say: 'What area code is that? Where'd you go to school?' ''
 A Dallas native, Mr. Heidbrink purchased his cellphone and acquired his 617 area code seven years ago when he was a junior at Boston College. Since graduating, he lived in six cities and participated in three political campaigns before landing a job in Washington a year ago with the Center for American Progress, a think tank. But 617 is still his story, and he's sticking to it. 
 Though wireless companies have not researched area-code loyalists, both Verizon and Cingular say anecdotal evidence supports the trend. ''Younger people are not tied to a location anymore,'' said Ritch Blasi, Cingular's director of media relations. ''They really are tied to their phones.''
 Twenty million wireless subscribers have ditched their land lines, according to the Yankee Group, a telecommunications research firm. Known in telecom lingo as cord cutters, roughly six million are between the ages of 18 and 24.
 Just nine months out of college, Punja Patel, 23, is from Orange County, Calif. She spent the summer working for a congressman in the San Francisco area before relocating to his Capitol Hill office last fall. Trade her 714 from the O.C. for a D.C. 202? Not a chance. 
 ''I'm homesick,'' Ms. Patel said, and for a homesick girl, dear old 714 is a lifeline. ''Everyone already has this,'' she said of her number, ''and knows how to get in touch with me.''
 Beyond the thrill of finding other 804 transplants, Ms. Kizler said that nostalgia is a big part of what keeps her holding on to her Richmond-accented area code, a sentiment shared by fellow cord cutters. Ms. Kizler got her Richmond number before she left for college in 2000. Her parents have since moved to Alabama, but 804 is Ms. Kizler's link to her childhood stomping ground.
 ''I kind of want to keep it, so I'm still associated with that area,'' Ms. Kizler said. ''Even though my parents aren't there anymore I can still be like: 'Yeah, I'm totally from Richmond. That's my area code.' '' 
 Michele Gordon, 26, purchased her 662 cellphone shortly before graduating from Mississippi State University. Now a Senate committee staffer, Ms. Gordon may fit the cord-cutter profile, but she can't seem to cut the ties to her alma mater.
 ''I know that I'll probably never move back to Mississippi,'' Ms. Gordon said. ''But I loved my time there. I guess in some strange way it is holding on to a little bit of Mississippi.''
 Samantha Test, 27, is the proud owner of the Cadillac of area codes, San Francisco's 415. Like its East Coast rival, New York's 917, it is has enormous cachet.
 A Californian who attended Berkeley and lived in the Bay Area after college, Ms. Test says she just ''feels more like a 415 than a 202.'' She purchased her cellphone and acquired the San Francisco digits shortly before moving to Washington to attend the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, part of Johns Hopkins University. Ms. Test can't predict when she'll return to San Francisco; in May she'll head north to a New York consulting firm. Keeping her 415 number is a pledge to friends, family and herself that she will head home eventually. 
 For those who cling to the less flashy area codes, sometimes it comes down to economics. Jeri Roberts, a classmate of Ms. Kizler, isn't about to quit 864, a k a Greenwood, S.C., because ''a lot of my family and friends have 864 area codes,'' she said. ''For them to call me, it's not long distance.''
 And then, in the directoryless world of the cellphone, there is the fear of losing touch. ''I do randomly get calls from people I haven't heard from in such a long time,'' Ms. Gordon said. ''They'll be, like, 'I'm so glad you didn't change your number, I would have never found you.' ''
 Of course there are exceptions. Clark Jennings, Mr. Heidbrink's friend and fellow campaign junkie, moved to Washington from Little Rock, Ark., after the 2004 presidential election and promptly picked up a 202 land line and cellphone. 
 For Mr. Jennings, who is 26, 202 symbolizes unloading the metaphorical baggage of the past and embracing a new phase of his life. It annoys him that Mr. Heidbrink's 617 number is a long-distance call from his land line, and Mr. Heidbrink jokes his friend acquired the 202 to pad his political resume.
 Mr. Heidbrink is beginning to hear responses from law schools for the fall. Soon he'll be packing up his apartment in Adams Morgan and his Boston phone number to move to one of six different cities. 
 In the meantime he is keeping his eye out for fellow area-code transplants. ''You recognize that that person's new along with you,'' Mr. Heidbrink said. 
 ''We'll figure this town out eventually,'' he said with a smile. ''And then we'll probably leave.''
 Friends may not know where the members of this group will be a year from now, but it's a safe bet they'll know how to reach them.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 19, 2006, about people who relocate to Washington, D.C., and keep their hometown cellphone area codes for a sense of regional identity, misspelled the given name of a California woman with a 714 area code who works for a San Francisco congressman. She is Puja Patel, not Punja. (Ms. Patel pointed out the error in an e-mail message on Dec. 7.) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: GEOGRAPHICALLY UNSUITABLE -- Washington is where you'll find them, but their hearts and their cellphones belong to distant area codes. From left, Punja Patel (714), Jay Heidbrink (617) and Michele Gordon (662). (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)
 HOOKED ON A PREFIX -- Ashley Kizler, another code loyalist, is always on the lookout for fellow adherents of 804, a k a Richmond, Va. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); TRENDS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); FORENSICS (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); YANKEE GROUP (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Maggie Master

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



410 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Uncool on Snow and Ice 

BYLINE: By Guy Trebay

 BODY:
SINCE when did Ronald McDonald become a sportswear designer? The question presented itself in Turin during this week's competition in snowboarding, one of many sports rarely on this observer's radar except during the two weeks of compulsive viewing that constitutes Olympics season.
 Sure, it's easy to carp about the stuff athletes are forced to wear as they turn into branding machines. But isn't it worth pointing out how Olympics style gets stranger with every edition of the Games?
And isn't it fair, too, to ask why some of the best physical specimens on the planet, people with physiques most designers dream of dressing, are being crammed into get-ups that make them look like either refugees from ''Pee-wee's Playhouse,'' Hello Kitty cultists or Saturday morning cartoons?
 This is literally the case when it comes to downhill skiers, speed skaters and those athletes competing in sports like skeleton and luge. Understandably, the bulky shapes and low-tech materials that once hindered the suicidal aerodynamics of rocketing headlong down ice chutes have been shed. The new silhouettes warp the contours of the human body in fascinating ways: elongating torsos, elasticizing joints and giving the athletes, in their enormous, chamfered helmets, the aspect of sci-fi bugs. 
 There is an undeniable cool in all this, as there is in the sight of the speed-skating oval in Turin transformed into what looks like a group home for the Fantastic Four. As bloggers on the Web site HotOlympians.com wrote all last week, the sexy superhero archetype is alive and well and named Joey Cheek, the gold medal American speed skater whose ubiquity on the Web can be attributed only partly to his Olympic rout. What has computer screens steamed up is not a debate on Mr. Cheek's split times, but how fetching he looks in his Human Fly eyeshades and a Swift Skin suit.
 Reviewing the Milan men's wear shows just under a month ago, I was stunned at how little interest Italian designers showed in the Winter Olympics, how unaware they were of the bonanza in their own backyard. Had they missed the seminar on Nascar economics? Had no one ever tipped them off to the news that Nike makes millions selling sneakers named after a hoops genius who hasn't played ball in years? 
 How is it that fashion takes so little interest in the Olympics? It is not that all the listed sports are as arcane and low-yield as curling. Figure skating, after all, has often drawn viewer ratings higher than any sporting event except the Super Bowl. Yet with the exception of Vera Wang, who has designed for figure skating champions like Nancy Kerrigan and Michelle Kwan, hardly anyone in fashion takes a run at Olympic sports. 
 The thresholds are high, of course. The United States Olympic Committee extracts stiff tariffs from anyone looking to use the Olympics logo on clothes. That narrows the field to designers like Tommy Hilfiger, whose deep pockets permitted him to enter the Olympic fray. As it happens, the man who has rung a thousand changes on prep school dressing is a natural fit for the Games. 
 Among the best uniforms this year are the suits he designed for the freestyle skiers: solid white or cream-colored jackets worn over dark blue ski pants, ornamented with a discreet Tommy Hilfiger logo and red-accented kneepads that looked like pistons pumping as the skiers plunged down the mogul slopes. 
 Unlike the pinstriped coveralls designed by Burton for the American snowboard teams, Mr. Hilfiger's uniforms have the effect of making the athletes inside them seem physically crisp and legible even at high speeds and well armored for safety. There is also the sense that there are actual bodies inside the suits; not the bendable kapok that seems stuffed into Gretchen Bleiler's and Shaun White's clunky suits.
 By contrast, the downhill and slalom skiers continue to seem dated in throwback jumpsuits that are less ironically Old School than old, with the sad gauche quality of the 70's ski wear one still sees at places like St. Moritz. With their shinguards and awkward pinnies, with their ham thighs vacuum-packed into Lycra jumpsuits printed with spider webs, the American ski team seems stylistically linked to the days of Spider Sabitch, who made the Web his signature motif. 
 There has been nothing in any country's ski camp to suggest the chic stuff companies like Prada have been producing for years: sleek Teflon ski jeans and high technology overalls that would have been just the thing to set off the great pink goggles and gloves Ted Ligety wore for his out-of-the-blue victory in the men's combined. 
 It is not easy, of course, to be an effective brand pimp and a rebel at the same time. Bode Miller -- whose living quarters are more AARP in flavor than the truly countercultural log cabin in which his parents chose to raise him -- is probably not the right person to look to for defiance pointers, even if he says he likes to get wasted every once in a while. The reality is that lives as regimented as those lived by most elite athletes leave little time to customize their looks with anything more radical than the Chia Pet soul patch Apolo Anton Ohno grows on his chin.
 It is accepted that athletes drive fashion as powerfully as do the celebrity clotheshorses who turn up on red carpets. Yet it is less well understood that designing a high-performance athletic garment is more challenging than anything John Galliano will ever have to whip up for Charlize Theron. The truth is that sports clothes tend to look the way maternity clothes did a decade ago, like default wear, designed by committee and without consulting anyone who gave thought to the distinct and even performance-boosting potential of body pride. 
 It seems odd that, as sports consume more of our time than ever, no Claire McCardell has emerged to invent dynamic athletic garments that wed movement to high style, and that no designer of note has taken on the challenge of translating economies of motion into chic.
 If any discipline at the Winter Olympics had the potential to provide a platform from which to showcase the marriage of high style and high function, it would seem to be figure skating. Yet the glossy ice pond in Turin is a fashion sinkhole, as even the occupationally chirpy talking heads are aware. ''Figure skating can have some pretty frightening costumes,'' Sandra Bezic, a skating commentator on NBC's team at Turino, said Tuesday night. 
 The problem is not the proliferation of ''illusion'' effects, in which parts are cut from costumes to suggest nakedness, the transparent sections replaced with tan Lycra. It is not that the costumers seem to have staggered off a Mardi Gras parade. It is not that a plague of two-tone or tone-on-tone velvets or random zippers or Chippendale's tear-away effects or even rhinestones applied in shotgun pattern to every surface has swept the ice rinks. It is not even that bad is so opulently ''Showgirls'' bad that it can be read as ironic, hence ''good.''
 The problem is worse. It is that the kitsch that extends to everything from the grim expressionist ballet in the opening ceremony to the Old Glory bandannas to the fieldstone fireplace lighted with licking plastic flames on the NBC set has infiltrated consciousness so fully that it has become a denominator, the one authentically democratic aspect of the Games.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HALFPIPE PINSTRIPES -- Kelly Clark in the coveralls Burton designed for American snowboarders. (Photo by Dylan Martinez/Reuters)(pg. 1)
ILLUSION ON ICE -- Johnny Weir placed second in the men's figure skating short program. Top, Ted Ligety, Alpine skier, in his pink goggles. (Photos by David Gray/Reuters
top, Laurent Gillieron/European Pressphoto Agency)
HOT TOPIC -- Joey Cheek's Swift Skin suit garners admiring comments on Web logs. He won the gold in the men's 500-meter speedskating. (Photo by Vincent Laforet for The New York Times)
DRESSED FOR COMFORT -- Hannah Teter of the United States winning the gold in the women's halfpipe competition on Monday in Turin, Italy. (Photo by Agence Zoom/Getty Images)
 IN ON THE GAMES -- Toby Dawson in the outfit Tommy Hilfiger designed. (Photo by Jed Jacobsohn/Getty Images)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNOWBOARDING (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); WINTER SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); ICE SKATING (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SKIING (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); MEN (66%); NASCAR RACING (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); REFUGEES (55%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2006); Uniforms

PERSON: Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (91%) ITALY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



411 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES: Pining; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Workers Uniting, Over Pirogi

BYLINE: By CAROLYN SLUTSKY

 BODY:
THEY were a staple of Communist Poland, punishingly drab restaurants in which the menu was scrawled on a handwritten board above the cash register, room-temperature yogurt drinks sat lined up on the counter, and waitresses in smocks served food on trays through a small window. 
 They are called milk bars, and despite their utter lack of charm, they are beloved by people who grew up in Communist Poland and remain popular there today. They are so beloved, in fact, that they also endure in the traditionally Polish neighborhood of Greenpoint, Brooklyn, even as the area is being fast transformed by an influx of non-Poles and artists and the prospect of development along the waterfront.
The austere Pyza, on Nassau Avenue near McGuinness Boulevard, is a replica of the milk bars that began in Communist-era Poland as government-subsidized dairy restaurants where workers could have a good meal every now and then. The restaurant reflects the fact that while many Poles immigrated to the United States in search of economic opportunity, they were reluctant to give up their traditions, even those imposed by the Communist system.
 ''This is the food Polish women cook at home,'' said Maria Sapil, a Pyza customer who divides her time between Warsaw and Brooklyn, as she cut into her meat pirogi, placed a small bite in her mouth, and dabbed at her pink lips with a napkin. 
 Pyza's walls are sparsely decorated with pictures of vases in gold-colored frames, and plastic flowers sit in tall jugs by the cash register. Above the register is a hefty, handwritten menu; nothing costs much more than $6. Polish women in their trademark smocks rush around collecting the hard plastic plates and cafeteria-style trays that customers leave on serviceable metal tables. Pope John Paul II stares out at the street from a photograph pasted to the window, while in the back room hangs a photograph of the Brooklyn Bridge racing up to meet the World Trade Center. 
 ''These are eateries for hard-working people,'' Ms. Sapil said. ''Look at the men's faces. They're carpenters, bricklayers.''
 At the next table, over stuffed cabbage and mashed potatoes, Darek Slusarczyk was taking a break from his job as an electrician. ''We work seven days per week,'' he said. ''This is a good country, but I prefer living in Poland.''
 His muscular friend Bart Lasek, who was eating a chicken cutlet topped with mushroom sauce, said: ''Today we work as electricians. Tomorrow, we'll see.''
 Sitting at a table in the back was Pyza's owner, Krzystof Zawistowski, who was an auto mechanic in his native country. For him, the lure of the milk bar is not its echoes of Communist privations but a rich cuisine. ''I love Polish food -- the milk, cheese, tomatoes, strawberries -- ah, the strawberries!'' he said, kissing his fingers to his lips. ''It's like a melody.'' CAROLYN SLUTSKY


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Greenpoint, Brooklyn, echoes of a Communist state. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MILK (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (67%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%) Restaurants; Polish-Americans

ORGANIZATION: pyza (nyc restaurant)

PERSON: carolyn slutsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) POLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



412 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: The City's Water Connection

 BODY:
New York is among the very few American cities enjoying high-quality, largely unfiltered and remarkably inexpensive drinking water, most of it from reservoirs in the Catskill-Delaware watershed west of the Hudson River. Maintaining this happy state of affairs, however, requires constant vigilance to protect the streams feeding the reservoirs from contamination, which in turn means protecting the watershed as a whole from overdevelopment, poor farming practices and a host of other threats to the environment. 
 In 1997, under the leadership of Gov. George Pataki, and after years of painstaking negotiations, the upstate communities agreed to forego large-scale development in exchange for various forms of economic assistance from the city. It was a delicate bargain, requiring a cooperative relationship between watershed residents and the Department of Environmental Protection, the agency charged with protecting the city's water.
 Lately that relationship has been threatened by a series of agency missteps, which -- though mostly unrelated to the larger issue of water quality -- have been seized upon by some mischievous upstaters to try to alter the original deal. 
 One source of irritation has been that the reservoirs are filled to the brim, raising fears of a repeat of the flooding that occurred last spring. Tapping into this discontent, State Senator John Bonacic successfully shepherded through the Senate a bill that would effectively remove authority for flood control from the city and shift it to the state.
 Upstate residents were further aggrieved by disclosures of misbehavior and poor judgment among city employees assigned to the watershed. One of the department's dam safety inspectors was found to have been falsifying reports. Another employee was stealing computers and other electronic equipment. It did not help the D.E.P.'s reputation that it remains under court-ordered federal supervision after faulty backup generators caused a spill of millions of gallons of raw sewage in the 2003 blackout.
 The agency appears to be working hard to make things right. It has taken the flooding threat especially seriously, and has devised a plan to reduce overflow from reservoirs during the spring thaw. It has also begun repair of the 80-year-old Gilboa dam, which it found to be unsafe.
 Mr. Bonacic's response is an overreaction. A more reasoned approach to building confidence in the system may be for the D.E.P. to seek more extensive help from the Army Corps of Engineers on the matter of dam inspection and flood control, as suggested by Rep. Maurice Hinchey, whose district is in the watershed.
 Yet the resentment Mr. Bonacic's bill reflects cannot be ignored. Upstate residents need to be reassured that the city cares about their safety. And while the city contributes mightily to the economies around the watershed -- paying some $100 million in taxes alone on property it has purchased to prevent further development -- it should be doing more to connect to local residents. It would also be useful if some way could be found to create more jobs in watershed towns, which are mostly poor, without compromising the streams that feed the reservoirs.
 Letting the watershed deteriorate would force the city to spend huge sums on a filtration plant. But the costs of failure would be great for everyone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); RIVERS (90%); ENGINEERING (88%); FLOOD CONTROL (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); WATER QUALITY (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); LEGISLATION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); ARMIES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Water; Editorials; Floods; Law and Legislation; Labor; Dams and Dikes; Water

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%) Army Corps of Engineers

PERSON: MAURICE D HINCHEY (60%) John J (Sen) Bonacic; Maurice (Repr) Hinchey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



413 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Snowed In, And Thankful for It

 BODY:
Less than a week after it closed early for the season because of a lack of business, the Powder Ridge Ski Area in Middlefield reopened on Monday after 18 inches of snow fell on its trails last weekend. 
 Ken Leavitt, the owner, said the ski area would try to remain open through early March.
 ''We're going to be open for the remainder of the season, weather permitting,'' he said.
 Mr. Leavitt said the Powder Ridge Ski Area usually averaged about 100,000 visitors each season from early December to early March, but was falling well short of that when it closed on Feb. 8.
 ''It's been a very difficult year for ski areas,'' he said. ''This year, there were a couple of storms where the rain/snow line was north of us along I-84, and that did not seem to help us.''
 Mr. Leavitt said he planned to open for the 2006-7 season. However, he said he would sell 160 of the ski area's unused 300 acres to come up with the necessary money.
 ''The town has approached us about buying excess land, and we'll explore that with them and give them the first shot at something,'' he said. ''And, if not, we will develop part of our property by putting housing on it.'' 
 Larry McHugh, president of the Middlesex County Chamber of Commerce, said Powder Ridge was important to the area's economy.
 ''There are a lot of people who come to ski and use our restaurants, hotels, gas stations and other retail establishments,'' he said. ''Plus, it's good for the full-time and part-time employees that have jobs.'' 
 Powder Ridge opened in 1959. It has 300 full-time and part-time employees.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The northeaster that closed some businesses led to the reopening of Ken Leavitt's Powder Ridge Ski Area. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SKIING (90%); WEATHER (90%); GAS STATIONS (68%); RESTAURANTS (63%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%) Skiing; Powder Ridge Ski Area (Conn); Snow and Snowstorms

ORGANIZATION: MIDDLESEX COUNTY CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Connecticut; middlefield (conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



414 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: A Spectator's Role for China's Muslims

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: LINXIA, China 

 BODY:
RELIGION is often hidden in China, so the unabashed public display of Islam here in the city known as Little Mecca is particularly striking. Men have beards and wear white caps. Women wear head scarves. Minarets poke up from large mosques. A bookstore sells Korans and religious study guides in Arabic.
 These are reminders that with almost 21 million followers of Islam, China has roughly as many Muslims as Europe or even Iraq. But the openness of religion in this isolated region along the ancient Silk Road does not mean that China's Muslims are active participants in the protests and seminal debates roiling the larger Islamic world. In that world, they are almost invisible. 
 A case in point is the outrage and violence over the Danish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad that last week continued to ripple through Islamic countries. Here in Linxia, which has more than 80 mosques, news of the cartoons spread quickly. The local religious affairs bureau also moved quickly. Local Muslims say officials visited imams and cautioned them against inciting followers. 
 The same happened in 2003, when a few protests broke out over the American invasion of Iraq. The China Islamic Association, the quasi-governmental agency that regulates Islam, quickly intervened and shut down the protest.
 Not that most Chinese Muslims need any warning. With 1.3 billion people, China is so huge and Muslims constitute such a tiny minority that most Muslims intuitively learn to keep quiet. 
 ''We can talk about these things among ourselves,'' said a shopper at a Muslim bookstore. ''But China has a law. We are not allowed to speak out about these things that are upsetting the Muslim world.''
 The tight government regulation of religion, as well as restrictions on free speech, can even separate Muslims on the Chinese mainland from their peers in Hong Kong, where citizens enjoy far greater civil liberties. On Friday, Hong Kong Muslims held a protest against the cartoons.
 Human rights groups have long criticized the lack of religious freedom in China and highlighted the harsh treatment of underground Catholics, Tibetan Buddhists and Uighurs, the Muslim ethnic group in the western region of Xinjiang. Yet other Chinese Muslim groups that might be expected to support the Uighurs have rarely done so. 
 Dru C. Gladney, a leading Western scholar on Chinese Muslims, said the country's 10 Muslim nationalities usually find common cause only when they feel an issue denigrates Islam, as was the case with the cartoons. Sometimes, disputes between different factions can end in violence. Mr. Gladney said the largest group, the Hui, regard some Uighurs as unpatriotic separatists who give other Chinese Muslims a bad name. The Hui, he said, have blended fairly well into society by placing pragmatism over religious zeal and adopting the low profile of an immigrant group living in a foreign land -- despite their presence in China for more than 1,300 years.
 ''They don't tend to get too involved in international Islamic conflict,'' said Mr. Gladney, a professor of Asian studies at the University of Hawaii. ''They don't want to be branded as radical Muslims.''
 Yet Chinese Muslims should not be considered completely housebroken by authoritarian rule. Since the seventh century, when Islam began arriving in China along trading routes, there have been periodic Muslim revolts. Under the Communist Party, Muslim rage, if mostly contained on international issues, has erupted over localized affronts.
 Large protests broke out in 1989. Muslims took to the streets to denounce a book that described minarets as phallic symbols and compared pilgrimages to Mecca with orgies. Government officials, who allowed the protests, quickly banned the book and even held a book burning.
 A few years ago, thousands of Muslims protested in various cities after a pig's head was nailed to the door of a mosque in Henan Province. And last year, riots erupted after Hui from all over central China rushed to the aid of a Muslim involved in a traffic dispute. 
 At the Mayanzhuang Islamic school in Linxia, Ma Huiyun, 40, the director of studies, said the cartoons infuriated him and other local Muslims. ''But we have to cooperate with the government,'' he said. ''They asked us to be calm. They said they would speak on our behalf and express our unhappiness.''
 Mr. Ma said Chinese Muslims want closer ties to the Islamic heartland in the Middle East. His school now has two computers to obtain news from the Middle East or about the Iraq war. This year, Mr. Ma made his first pilgrimage to Mecca, one of roughly 10,000 Chinese Muslims estimated to have taken part in the hajj. The government has begun hiring Chinese Muslims to work in Middle Eastern embassies and state-owned companies that do business in the region.
 But many Muslims here cite obstacles to developing relationships with Muslims in other countries, and as a result, the Chinese remain largely isolated. ''There is really not a lot of understanding about us in the outside world,'' Mr. Ma said.
 Linxia, once known as Hezhou, has been a center of Islam for centuries and now has a climate of religious tolerance. But Muslims elsewhere in China face more restrictions. In Xinjiang, for example, Muslim schools are tightly monitored and are allowed only limited numbers of students.
 Many of the same societal problems that fueled protests by Islamic immigrants in Europe -- discrimination, lower education levels, higher unemployment, a sense of cultural separation from the dominant majority -- can be found in China, too. China's Muslim population is stable, but among upwardly mobile Chinese, Islam is not as popular as Buddhism or Christianity. The pressure to assimilate, too, has watered down Islam in many places; in cities, some people who call themselves Muslims abstain from eating pork but rarely attend mosque.
 Not so in Linxia. At the Muslim schools in the city, most of the students are young boys from poor families who may one day became imams. It will be their job to navigate the delicate task of being Muslim in China.
 ''Obviously, we're different from Muslims in other parts of the world,'' said Ma Ruxiong, a teacher at the Nanguan Mosque, the city's oldest. ''We just can't go into the streets and protest. You have to have permission from the government. But there are other things we can do. We pray to Allah to protect all Muslims in the world.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: One Faith, Many Groups -- China's 10 Muslim nationalities, including Hui, above, and Uighurs, below, have differed over how much to assimilate into the country's majority culture. But they have found common cause over issues that denigrate Islam. (Photo by Richard T. Nowitz/Corbis)
 (Photo by Julia Calfee/Polaris)Map of China highlighting Linxia and other major cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (79%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); RIOTS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (61%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ETHNICITY (50%) Cartoons and Cartoonists; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: Jim Yardley; Muhammad (Prophet) (C570-632)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); GANSU, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (92%); DENMARK (90%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Islam; Linxia (China); China; Denmark; Gansu Province (China)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



415 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Questions Of Culture

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Once, not that long ago, economics was the queen of the social sciences. Human beings were assumed to be profit-maximizing creatures, trending toward reasonableness. As societies grew richer and more modern, it was assumed, they would become more secular. As people became better educated, primitive passions like tribalism and nationalism would fade away and global institutions would rise to take their place. As communications technology improved, there would be greater cooperation and understanding. As voters became more educated, they would become more independent-minded and rational. 
 None of these suppositions turned out to be true. As the world has become richer and better educated, religion hasn't withered; it has become stronger and more fundamentalist. Nationalism and tribalism haven't faded away. Instead, transnational institutions like the U.N. and the European Union are weak and in crisis. 
 Communications technology hasn't brought people closer together; it has led to greater cultural segmentation, across the world and even within the United States. Education hasn't made people moderate and independent-minded. In the U.S. highly educated voters are more polarized than less educated voters, and in the Arab world some of the most educated people are also the most fanatical. 
 All of this has thrown a certain sort of materialistic vision into crisis. We now know that global economic and technological forces do not gradually erode local cultures and values. Instead, cultures and values shape economic development. Moreover, as people are empowered by greater wealth and education, cultural differences become more pronounced, not less, as different groups chase different visions of the good life, and react in aggressive ways to perceived slights to their cultural dignity. 
 Economics, which assumes people are basically reasonable and respond straightforwardly to incentives, is no longer queen of the social sciences. 
 The events of the past years have thrown us back to the murky realms of theology, sociology, anthropology and history. Even economists know this, and are migrating to more behaviorialist and cultural approaches. 
 The fundamental change is that human beings now look less like self-interested individuals and more like socially embedded products of family and group. Alan Greenspan said that he once assumed that capitalism was ''human nature.'' But after watching the collapse of the Russian economy, he had come to consider it ''was not human nature at all, but culture.''
 During the first few years of life, parents, communities and societies unconsciously impart ways of being and of perceiving reality that we are only subliminally aware of. How distinct is the individual from the community? Does history move forward or is it cyclical? How do I fulfill my yearning for righteousness? What is possible and what is impossible?
 The answers to these questions are wildly diverse, and once worldviews have been absorbed, they produce wildly different levels and types of social and cultural capital. East Asians and Jews, for example, seem to thrive commercially wherever they settle. 
 It turns out that it's hard to change the destinies of nations and individuals just by pulling economic levers. Over the past few decades, America has transferred large amounts of money to Africa to build factories and spur economic development. None of this has worked. As the economists Raghuram Rajan and Arvind Subramanian demonstrated, there is no correlation between aid and growth. 
 At home, we spend more money on education than any other nation. We have undertaken a million experiments to restructure schools and bureaucracies. But students who lack cultural and social capital because they did not come from intact, organized families continue to fall further and further behind -- unless they come into contact with some great mentor who can not only teach, but also change values and behavior. 
 It all amounts to this: Events have forced different questions on us. If the big contest of the 20th century was between planned and free market economies, the big questions of the next century will be understanding how cultures change and can be changed, how social and cultural capital can be nurtured and developed, how destructive cultural conflict can be turned to healthy cultural competition.
 People who think about global development are out in front in thinking about these matters. (I'd recommend rival anthologies: ''Culture Matters,'' edited by Lawrence Harrison and Samuel Huntington, and ''Culture and Public Action,'' edited by Vijayendra Rao and Michael Walton.) But the rest of us will catch up soon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RELIGION (89%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Culture; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



416 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Dreams Deferred

BYLINE: By A. Roger Ekirch. 
A. Roger Ekirch, a professor of history at Virginia Tech, is the author of ''At Day's Close: Night in Times Past.''

DATELINE: ROANOKE, Va. 

 BODY:
BED is a medicine,'' instructs an Italian proverb. Increasingly, Americans are inverting that counsel by ingesting sleeping pills to speed their slumber. 
 With complaints of insomnia mounting, and marketing by drug companies becoming ever more ubiquitous, we are turning in increasing numbers to drugs like Ambien and Lunesta. According to a recent report from the research company IMS Health, pharmacists in the United States filled some 42 million prescriptions for sleeping pills last year, a rise of nearly 60 percent since 2000.
Are we running too quickly to the medicine cabinet? Or is insomnia genuinely reaching epidemic proportions, a consequence perhaps of the frenetic pace of modern life? 
 In all likelihood, we have never slept so soundly. Yes, the length of a single night's sleep has decreased over the years (upward of 30 percent of adults average six or fewer hours), but the quality of our sleep has improved significantly. And quality, not quantity, sleep researchers tell us, is more important to feeling well rested. 
 This is not to minimize the torment of insomnia over the course of a restless night. But for most of us, slumber is reasonably tranquil -- especially when compared with what passed for a night's rest before the modern era. Despite nostalgic notions about sleep in past centuries, threats to peaceful slumber lurked everywhere, from lice and noxious chamber pots to tempestuous weather. 
 Worst in this pre-penicillin age was sickness, especially such respiratory tract illnesses as influenza, pulmonary tuberculosis and asthma, all aggravated by bedding rife with mites. One 18th-century diarist recounts that asthma forced her husband to sleep in a chair for months, with ''watchers'' required to hold his head upright. Among the laboring poor, whose living conditions were horrendous, sleep deprivation was probably chronic, prompting many to nap at midday, much to the annoyance of their masters. 
 As if these maladies were not enough, we now also know that pre-industrial families commonly experienced a ''broken'' pattern of sleep, though few contemporaries regarded it in a pejorative light. Until the modern age, most households had two distinct intervals of slumber, known as ''first'' and ''second'' sleep, bridged by an hour or more of quiet wakefulness. Usually, people would retire between 9 and 10 o'clock only to stir past midnight to smoke a pipe, brew a tub of ale or even converse with a neighbor. 
 Others remained in bed to pray or make love. This time after the first sleep was praised as uniquely suited for sexual intimacy; rested couples have ''more enjoyment'' and ''do it better,'' as one 16th-century French doctor wrote. Often, people might simply have lain in bed ruminating on the meaning of a fresh dream, thereby permitting the conscious mind a window onto the human psyche that remains shuttered for those in the modern day too quick to awake and arise. 
 The principal explanation for this enigmatic pattern of slumber probably lies in the nocturnal darkness that enveloped pre-industrial households -- in short, the absence of artificial lighting. There is a growing consensus on the impact of modern lighting on sleep. The Harvard chronobiologist Charles A. Czeisler has aptly likened lighting to a drug in its physiological effects, producing, among other changes, altered levels of melatonin, the brain hormone that helps to regulate our circadian clock. 
 In fact, during clinical experiments at the National Institute of Mental Health, human subjects deprived of light at night for weeks at a time exhibited a segmented pattern of sleep closely resembling that related in historical sources (as well as that still exhibited by many wild mammals). The subjects also experienced, during intervals of wakefulness, measurably higher levels of prolactin, the hormone that allows hens to sit happily upon their eggs for long periods. 
 These elevations of prolactin reinforce historical descriptions of complacent feelings at ''first waking'' and, back then, probably helped calm people's worries about the night's perils. Prolactin is also what differentiates segmented sleep, with its interval of ''non-anxious wakefulness'' that nearly resembles a meditative state, from the tossing-and-turning insomnia we medicate against. ''Let the end of thy first sleep raise thee from thy repose: then hath the body the best temper; then hath thy soul the least encumbrance,'' wrote the moralist Francis Quarles. 
 Remarkably, then, our pattern of consolidated sleep has been a relatively recent development, another product of the industrial age, while segmented sleep was long the natural form of our slumber, having a provenance as old as humankind. (Homer even invoked the term ''first sleep'' in ''The Odyssey.'') For experts like Dr. Thomas Wehr, who conducted the experiments at the National Institute of Mental Health, some common sleep disorders may be nothing more than sleep's older, primal pattern trying to reassert itself -- ''breaking through,'' as Dr. Wehr has put it, into today's ''artificial world.'' 
 That theory, of course, remains to be proved. In the meantime, rather than resort to excessive medication, Americans might try to remember that though they're sleeping less, they're sleeping better and more seamlessly than humans ever have in the past. We might, on occasion, even choose to emulate our ancestors, for whom the dead of night, rather than being a source of dread, often afforded a welcome refuge from the regimen of daily life.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Raymond Verdaguer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); SLEEP DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SLEEP (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); FAMILY (76%); INFLUENZA (75%); ASTHMA (69%); TUBERCULOSIS (64%) Sleep; Insomnia; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: A Roger Ekirch

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (59%) VIRGINIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



417 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Congress, Can You Spare a Dime?

 BODY:
Congress will not be in session this week. The legislators have all gone home, most to campaign, and are not expected back in Washington until Feb. 27. They left the capital without passing a law to extend unemployment benefits for 164,000 people who are still jobless from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, even though the benefits start to expire at the beginning of March. 
 There is no good reason for waiting until the last minute before granting an extension. It is beyond dispute that many hurricane victims face extraordinary hurdles in finding new jobs. What is the point of making them worry that their benefits will run out?
So far, Congressional action has amounted to a little bit here and a little bit there, without any constructive conclusions. A House committee unanimously approved a bill for some 50,000 victims of Katrina and Rita, generally the self-employed, who are receiving federal disaster unemployment benefits. The bill would extend relief for an additional 26 weeks and raise the minimum benefit to $135 a week. But House leaders never put the bill to a vote by the full House. The Senate, for its part, passed a bill that calls for a 13-week extension of Katrina-related federal disaster unemployment benefits, but does nothing for the estimated 25,000 people left unemployed from Hurricane Rita. 
 Neither the House nor the Senate has acted yet to extend the benefits of some 114,000 payroll employees from the private and public sectors who lost jobs to the hurricanes, even though such benefits were extended after 9/11 and many other times before, as circumstances required.
 When it returns, Congress must act quickly to keep hurricane-related jobless benefits flowing. But as a motto by which to run the government, ''better late than never'' is pathetic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WEATHER (89%); APPROVALS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Editorials; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Unemployment; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



418 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: The Pessimism Deficit

BYLINE: By SARAH VOWELL

 BODY:
A couple of weeks ago, I was doing a reading at one of those bookstores on the West Coast where at least five people will hiss like snakes and radiators if an author even mentions the names of certain senior administration officials. And that was back before members of the executive branch actually started shooting their friends. 
 The question-and-answer period included the usual random lineup of what I call the ''Garry Wills questions.'' They're the sort of undignified ''What historical figure would you like to make out with?'' queries my way-more-upstanding-nonfiction-colleague Mr. Wills never has to endure. Probably because everyone knows the Socratic author of ''Lincoln at Gettysburg'' and ''Why I Am a Catholic'' would answer with another question, namely, ''Do you consider Snoop Dogg to be a historical figure?'' 
Then a man raised his hand and asked me to give him a reason to be ''optimistic'' about America. Huh. That was a new one. That's how depressing things are in this country right now -- citizens are coming to me for optimism. And I'm the person who came to town to read from a book that ends with me walking across Union Square from the Lincoln statue toward the Gandhi statue and noting, ''They shot him, too.'' 
 I was so taken aback by the optimism request I think I mumbled something about seeking solace in art and the land, culminating in a drippy anecdote about my sunrise flight over Mount Hood and Crater Lake while listening to ''Adagio for Strings.'' But that question keeps dogging me.
 My go-to worldview is pessimism. I see a Times Square billboard promoting a musical that has its audience ''dancing in the aisles'' and I can't help but think, ''That is a fire hazard.'' But it has been my happy experience that if one moves through life in a constant state of low-key dread, then one gets to be continually pleasantly surprised. 
 Like, suppose I was to be asked to write a guest column for a newspaper I find consistently infuriating because, for example, its arts section prints claptrap proclamations like ''No woman really loves Bob Dylan,'' thereby making me want to jump in a cab with a boombox and my two copies of ''Blonde on Blonde'' and plant myself on 43rd Street, blaring ''Most Likely You Go Your Way and I'll Go Mine'' at said newspaper's windows. I would dread such an assignment until I felt the glee of getting paid to carp at said paper within its own pages. See? Pleasant surprise.
 Sure, there are reasons to be hopeful about the United States. And most of them do involve art or the land. Like those Ed Ruscha paintings representing the nation at last year's Venice Biennale. There's something so true and rebellious about his skies; to look at them is to get that same smiley, breathy relief a Westerner feels the second she crosses to the left bank of the Mississippi.
 Or there's the current Broadway revival of ''Sweeney Todd,'' with its strange rhythms and cheeky poetics and actors playing instruments, making a listener wish she'd never given up the baritone horn. Or there was last week's ''Inside the Actors Studio'' with Dave Chappelle, in which Chappelle was funny, of course, but also so self-possessed and thoughtful and morally outraged he had a kind of biblical grandeur. 
 And what about the glory that is Glacier National Park? Or the good news that bald eagles are no longer an endangered species? 
 I got the feeling, though, that the man asking for optimism at that bookstore wasn't looking for raves about paintings or ice age deposits (especially since global warming is likely to make Glacier National Park glacier-free by 2030). I got the feeling that he was asking for reasons to be optimistic about the government.
 Alas, I see my initial worries about the current administration as the greatest betrayal in my whole life by my old pal pessimism. I attended the president's inauguration in 2001. When he took the presidential oath, I cried. What was I so afraid of? I was weeping because I was terrified that the new president would wreck the economy and muck up my drinking water. Isn't that adorable? I lacked the pessimistic imagination to dread that tens of thousands of human beings would be spied on or maimed or tortured or killed or stranded or drowned, thanks to his incompetence.
 I feel like a fool. All those years of Sunday school, and still the apocalypse catches me off guard. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOOKSTORES (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); SHOOTINGS (71%) United States Politics and Government; Marriages

PERSON: Sarah Vowell; George W (Pres) Bush; Stephanie Coontz

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



419 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Letting the 'Sun' Shine

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
QUIETLY, the Heckscher Museum of Art in Huntington has changed its tune on George Grosz's monumental 1926 painting ''Eclipse of the Sun,'' probably the museum's most prized possession. 
 Last spring, the museum endeavored to sell the painting for $19 million, to help finance a proposed building expansion. Now it is promoting Grosz's work as ''the most famous and important painting on Long Island'' and is vowing in publicity material to make a dedicated space for its display in the new building. It's quite a turnabout.
The museum is presently displaying the painting as a ''special installation'' in the permanent collection galleries. Partly, this is to celebrate the painting's survival for the collection and partly, I guess, to give the public a chance to see it before it goes on loan for several months for an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art next fall. 
 So what is ''Eclipse of the Sun''? It is basically a biting satire of Weimar-period German political and business leaders, in particular the corruption of the avaricious industrialist and president of the German Reich, Paul von Hindenburg, who is displayed at the painting's center. The sun, a symbol of growth, regeneration and life, is eclipsed by a bloody dollar sign.
 What do we care about this? A lot, if you know your history, for Germany was stricken with corruption, political instability and a harsh economic depression during Hindenburg's term as president of the Weimar Republic. This helped the rise of the Nazi Party, and Hindenburg appointed Adolf Hitler as the German chancellor in 1933.
 Grosz was a leading member of the Berlin Dada group in the 1920's and 1930's. He fled to the United States in 1933 to avoid persecution, settling first in New York City before moving to Huntington, where he remained from 1947 to 1959. He taught at the Heckscher Museum and other places and was active in the local community. Grosz returned to Germany in 1959 and died a month after his return. 
 When he immigrated to the United States, Grosz brought the painting with him. Nobody much cared for his satirical Weimar-period German political work here in the 1930's, 1940's and 1950's, and ''Eclipse of the Sun'' was eventually found rolled up in the garage of a suburban house painter who had done work for Grosz. The museum bought it in 1968 for $15,000; schoolchildren filled its fountain with pennies to help pay for it. 
 Over the years, changing times and understanding of the painting's importance made it much more valuable, and last February the museum said it had a buyer who would pay $19 million for the painting. The museum later abandoned plans for the sale.
 To my mind, having an artwork of this caliber in a museum collection comes with certain obligations: the facilities to store it properly and adequate space to keep it regularly on display. The Heckscher sadly lacks both requirements, which probably led the museum director and board to think about selling it. 
 But the work's presence here also places obligations on us, the viewers. The first is to go see it, for there is no point in preserving a painting of this importance in a local museum for the people of Long Island if they have no interest in appreciating it, right?
 Happily, however, it seems that they do. A survey of visitors conducted by the Heckscher late last summer revealed that about a third came specifically to see the Grosz painting; that more than half said that it had the strongest impact; and that 80 percent said the picture improved their museum experience.
 Less heartening is that only about a third of the respondents said they were familiar with ''Eclipse of the Sun,'' suggesting that the museum still needs to do more to publicize its presence and its importance. Perhaps its appearance in ''Glitter and Doom: Portraits of the Weimar Republic (1919-1933)'' at the Metropolitan will help raise its profile.
 The Heckscher is also taking steps in this direction, placing an image of the painting prominently on its Web site with text saying that the Heckscher is ''the proud home of George Grosz's large masterpiece 'Eclipse of the Sun' '' and calling it ''one of the most important paintings in 20th-century art.'' That is overstating the case just a little, but it is nice to know the painting is finally being appreciated.
 Now it is time to do your part and vote with your feet.

George Grosz, ''Eclipse of the Sun,'' Heckscher Museum of Art, 2 Prime Avenue, Huntington, through March 19. For more information: (631) 351-3250 or www.heckscher.org.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Heckscher bought George Grosz's ''Eclipse of the Sun'' for $15,000 in 1968. (Photo by Heckscher Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CHILDREN (50%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%) Heckscher Museum of Art (Huntington, NY)

PERSON: Benjamin Genocchio; George (1893-1959) Grosz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



420 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: Drug Plan Tests Older Voters' Ties to G.O.P.

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
Older voters, a critical component of Republican Congressional victories for more than a decade, could end up being a major vulnerability for the party in this year's midterm elections, according to strategists in both parties. Paradoxically, one reason is the new Medicare drug benefit, which was intended to cement their loyalty.
 During next week's Congressional recess, Democrats are set to begin a major new campaign to highlight what Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, describes as ''this disastrous Republican Medicare prescription drug plan.''
Democratic incumbents and challengers plan nearly 100 public forums around the country, armed with briefing books and talking points on a law that, party leaders assert, ''was written by and for big drug companies and H.M.O.'s, not American families.'' 
 Recognizing the widespread criticism of the new drug program, Republican senators met in a closed session with administration officials this week to discuss the rocky rollout of the plan and prepare for questions back home.
 But pollsters say the Republicans' difficulties with the over-60 vote go beyond the complicated drug benefit, which began Jan. 1. 
 President Bush's failed effort to create private accounts in Social Security last year was also unpopular with many older Americans. That, in addition to confusion over the drug benefit, has ''taken the key swing vote that's been trending the Republicans' way and put it at risk for the next election,'' said Glen Bolger, a Republican pollster. ''And what that means is Republicans are going to have to work extra hard.''
 Mr. Bolger added: ''It's no secret what the Democrats are going to do. It's what they always do -- scare seniors.''
 Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, countered: ''We told them up front, the way you're designing this is going to be a disaster. If you go back to the debate, we said this is set up for failure.''
 Retirees loom large in midterm elections because they turn out in force at the polls, even in nonpresidential years; their numbers and influence are particularly strong in Congressional battlegrounds like Florida and Pennsylvania. 
 For years, Democrats counted on the over-60 vote to regularly return their party to power on Capitol Hill -- the party of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Social Security and Medicare, as Democrats were quick to remind retirees. 
 But that changed in the 1990's, when that vote began tilting toward the Republicans.
 One reason for the change was demographics -- the passing of the New Deal generation and its replacement with retirees whose political loyalties were formed in a more Republican era. But it also reflected Republican success in muting or neutralizing the longtime Democratic advantage as the more trustworthy party on Social Security and Medicare. The passage of the Medicare prescription drug law in 2003 was intended to be the crowning accomplishment of that strategy.
 Experts note that the retiree vote is hardly monolithic, nor is it motivated purely by what happens to programs for older Americans. ''It's not always economics that prevails,'' said Susan A. MacManus, an expert on generational politics at the University of South Florida in Tampa. She noted that many retirees in her region are younger and more affluent, less dependent on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, and more concerned about national security and moral issues.
 In fact, Democrats suffered one of their worst years among over-60 voters in the 1998 House vote, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls; some analysts attributed that to the Monica Lewinsky scandal that year, which they argued was particularly offensive to older voters. In more recent elections, older voters have been particularly responsive to Mr. Bush's national security and antiterrorism positions, said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster.
 But for now, the major battleground is the new Medicare benefit, a program potentially affecting 42 million older and disabled Americans that has been rolled out in a bitterly competitive political year. At stake is control of the House and Senate: Democrats could gain control of the House for the first time in 12 years if they make a net gain of 15 seats, a difficult challenge. They could regain control of the Senate by picking up six seats. 
 Older voters will play a crucial role in some of the marquee races, including the Pennsylvania Senate race, between Republican Senator Rick Santorum and his Democratic challenger, State Treasurer Robert P. Casey Jr. Among the fewer than three dozen House districts considered competitive, the over-60 vote will be critical in states like Florida and New Mexico.
 New Mexico's attorney general, Patricia Madrid, who is challenging Republican Representative Heather A. Wilson, was chosen to deliver the Democratic radio address on Saturday, focused on the Medicare drug benefit.
 Many Republicans say they still believe that the drug program, by this fall, will be a net political advantage with millions of retired voters. But they acknowledge problems, including low-income people who fell between the cracks in the transition; the difficulties reported by many pharmacists in determining eligibility; and the general struggle of millions of retirees faced with a choice among 40 or more private drug plans, with different rules, lists of covered drugs and premiums.
 Republicans have reacted angrily in recent days to what they assert is a blatant effort by Democrats to capitalize on the confusion. Representative Deborah Pryce of Ohio, chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, accused Democrats of trying ''to scare seniors away from signing up for this benefit.'' Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Finance Committee, asserted that the Democrats' new public campaign was a strategy of ''inherent political hypocrisy and opportunism.''
 Democrats insist they are urging older voters to sign up for the program -- the deadline for signing up without penalty is May 15 -- even as they highlight its flaws. They are pushing legislation that would, among other things, extend the sign-up deadline, allow Medicare to negotiate prices directly with drug companies and impose new regulations on private drug plans.
 As the election approaches, increasingly anxious Congressional Republicans say the onus is on the Bush administration to make the program work. Representative Paul D. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican who played a crucial role in the drug law, said, ''By and large, people are satisfied, but there are a lot of people who are frustrated and confused, no two ways about that. The question is whether those people who are frustrated and confused are going to have their problems resolved in the next few months. The administration is really on the hook for smoothing out these problems.''
 Surveys show that older voters remain skeptical; a new nationwide poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health research group, found that retirees were almost twice as likely to say they viewed the benefit unfavorably (45 percent) as favorably (23 percent). Last month's New York Times/CBS News Poll found that most did not expect the law to lower drug costs over the next few years.
 In the 22nd Congressional District, in Florida, where State Senator Ron Klein, a Democrat, is challenging Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Republican, Mr. Klein said the prescription drug issue was part of a general economic squeeze, including higher homeowners' insurance and gas prices, that retirees were feeling.
 ''Things have gotten pretty rough in the last couple years, and these Medicare prescription drug costs, on top of the other issues, are weighing pretty heavily on people with fixed incomes,'' Mr. Klein said. ''Let's start thinking about the consumer side, instead of figuring out how to prop up the pharmaceutical and insurance industries.''
 Mr. Shaw, who came to Congress in 1981 and has proved one of the more durable political survivors, said he expected an expensive race, but a successful one. He said he had been giving seminars to help older Americans maneuver through the new drug benefit. 
 ''It's complicated and confusing, no question, because it's new,'' Mr. Shaw said. ''But I can tell you by November, those who have it will be delighted, and those who don't will be wanting to get into the program.''

 Margin of victory in House races: 2%
Democratic advantage

1982
Margin of victory in House races: 16
Democratic advantage

1984
Margin of victory in House races: 4
Republican advantage

1986
Margin of victory in House races: 4
Democratic advantage

1988
Margin of victory in House races: 10
Democratic advantage

1990
Margin of victory in House races: 6
Democratic advantage

1992
Margin of victory in House races: 12
Democratic advantage

1994
Margin of victory in House races: 2
Republican advantage

1996
Margin of victory in House races: 2
Republican advantage

1998
Margin of victory in House races: 10
Republican advantage

2000
Margin of victory in House races: 4
Democratic advantage

2002
Margin of victory in House races: 2
Republican advantage

2004
Margin of victory in House races: 8
Republican advantage

APPROVAL OF PRESIDENT BUSH
Older voters backed President Bush in his 2004 re-election. Now analysts say that discontent with the Medicare prescription drug benefit and the failed Social Security push have put their votes back in play.

Graph tracks percent of 65 years and older voters whom approved of President Bush during the following events:
Sept. 11
U.S. invades
Iraq Bush signs prescription drug bill

Voter data is based on surveys of voters leaving polling places nationwide on Election Day. Presidential approval is based on nationwide telephone surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News.

(pg. 24)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Klein, a Democratic state senator in Florida, has criticized the drug plan in his campaign for Congress. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)(pg. 24)Graph: ''Older Voters at the Polls''PERCENTAGE OF THE VOTEFor years, older voters have accounted for a large share of the vote in midterm elections, and they will play a crucial role in this year's races as well.Voters 60 years old and over1980Percentage of total voters: 18%1982Percentage of total voters: 281984Percentage of total voters: 191986Percentage of total voters: 281988Percentage of total voters: 221990Percentage of total voters: 271992Percentage of total voters: 161994Percentage of total voters: 251996Percentage of total voters: 241998Percentage of total voters: 282000Percentage of total voters: 222002Percentage of total voters: 282004Percentage of total voters: 24VOTING PATTERNSOlder Americans are a historically Democratic bloc, but over the last decade the Republican Party has succeeded in winning a larger percentage of their vote.Voters 60 years old and over1980

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (70%) Medicine and Health; Aged; Elections; Election Issues; Social Security (US); Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Public Opinion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); RON KLEIN (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) Robin Toner; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida ; Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



421 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: In Mardi Gras, A City Learns To Party Again

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
Trumpets sounded, drums pounded and the feet of a city marched in place, tapping an anticipatory beat on asphalt. Someone gave the noontime signal for a parade to move forward, and it did: exuberant, silly, gaudy, giddy, diminished, defiant.
 It could have been just another parade, even just another Mardi Gras parade. But Saturday's train of floats and marching bands -- five parades that seemed to blend into one -- was the joyous first step of this year's Mardi Gras season in New Orleans, and the first since Hurricane Katrina altered the physical and psychic landscape here nearly six months ago. Every tossed string of beads, every flipped plastic coin carried the weight of added meaning.
 While this city tradition of celebration continued, things looked and felt different. The crowds were far thinner than usual, and not because the chilly day had the gray cast of a fish's belly. No more than 200,000 residents have returned to what had been a city of 465,000, and those who ventured to the parade route were joined by only a scattering of tourists. A sense of absence, though gradually lifting, still lingered. 
 ''There's just not as many people in New Orleans anymore,'' Karen Giorlando said as she kept an eye on her nephew and niece, 8 and 5, whose home in the Lakeview neighborhood was flooded. ''Now the parade's all about the kids. They're all stressed. They needed this.''
 Another example of the differences came with the first club to wheel its garish floats into view: the Krewe of Pontchartrain, as in Lake Pontchartrain, whose waters burst through levees to flood the city. 
 The krewe's members stood on the floats and tossed out plush toys shaped like grouper, a fish plentiful in the lake. People along St. Charles Avenue ignored the reminders of last year's deluge, calling out for the toys and receiving them with gratitude.
 Following the Krewe of Pontchartrain was the Mystic Krewe of Shangri-La, whose founder and longtime captain, Mary Katherine Tusa, stood majestically on the first float, wearing a mask and a huge headdress of red feathers. Her krewe reflected both the damage done by the hurricane and the determination borne of it.
 Ms. Tusa said her krewe usually had 26 floats; this year, it had 9. It also usually has 500 members participating; this year, it is 160, because so many members lived in Gentilly, the Ninth Ward and other neighborhoods devastated by the storm. 
 ''They're all displaced, they're all over the place,'' she said. ''I was against riding. I didn't think it was appropriate.''
 But Ms. Tusa said she gradually had a change of heart. ''If this will help this city, come hell or high water, then I'm for the ride,'' she said. Moments later she was tossing beads with a silly but regal flair.
 Few celebrations have caused as much communal doubt and self-examination as this year's Mardi Gras. Is it proper to revel in life when so many have died? Should the city's focus stray from rebuilding for trinkets, beads and silliness?
 In the end, the answer became clear, even obvious, to most: Mardi Gras must continue. People reasoned that the local economy desperately needed the help that an extended street party would bring -- as much as $1 billion in previous years -- and that cultural traditions should be embraced. The city needs to laugh again, to dance again.
 In addition, Mardi Gras shows the world that New Orleans is still New Orleans. Since the first celebration in 1857, the festivities have been canceled or severely curtailed 13 times, usually by wars or strikes, but the city refused to grant Hurricane Katrina the distinction of causing the 14th interruption.
 Arthur Hardy, the publisher of an annual Mardi Gras guide, said he was being inundated with requests for comments by reporters and television crews from around the world. ''We've never had this kind of coverage,'' Mr. Hardy said. ''It's a real opportunity for the rest of the city to show itself.''
 He even suggested the news angle: ''We're very much a tale of two cities. The message is, We're on our way back, but we still have a ways to go.''
 Just how far the city has to go was demonstrated by its hat-in-hand struggle to cover some of the costs of the revelry. Mardi Gras is a celebration by the people; they organize the clubs, or krewes, and pay for the floats and baubles. But the government still has to pay the police and sanitation costs -- and this year, the city is all but broke.
 City officials hired a company to attract sponsors, figuring that businesses with lucrative disaster-relief contracts would happily underwrite some of the expense. The effort elicited exactly one sponsor: Glad Products, which gave an unspecified six-figure donation and a gift of 100,000 garbage bags.
 On Thursday, just two days before the first official parades, the City Council voted unanimously to spend $2.7 million on police overtime and other city services. It did not, however, indicate where exactly it would find that $2.7 million.
 The city had little choice. Parades were planned, and people would still cry out for plastic doubloons hardly worth the expense of breath. Stores would still sell the king cake, in which an infant-like figure baked into it requires a warning: ''Caution: Non-Edible Baby Figure Inside This Cake!''
 But no one pretends that things are normal here, or that this is just another Mardi Gras. Parade routes have been shortened, the number of parade days cut. Tourism officials say that Mardi Gras usually attracts as many as 1.2 million visitors a year. This year they expect 700,000 at most, although they will not have a precise figure until the largest parades roll in the busy final days of Carnival, which concludes on Fat Tuesday, Feb. 28.
 Today's modest parades, though, finally gave residents license to be silly -- about the absence of people, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the crazed rhythms of life.
 ''We don't care if anybody else comes,'' shouted Diana Sanchez, 53, of the city's West Bank. ''We're here for Mardi Gras.''
 Beside her was a smiling Pat Neie, 68, who one might argue had little to smile about. Her house on the West Bank was flooded, and she is living in a government trailer. ''And it leaks,'' Ms. Neie said, keeping her smile.
 Soon Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Neie and thousands of others were cheering, hooting and begging for trinkets as the parades of the krewes of Pontchartrain, Shangri-La, Pygmalion, Pegasus and Sparta rolled up Napoleon Avenue, turned right at the shuttered Copeland's of New Orleans restaurant and continued down St. Charles, along a route that still bears scars from the hurricane.
 Leading the way was a band that included students from three different high schools: St. Mary's, flooded out; St. Augustine, flooded out; and Xavier Prep, spared. They combined their talents and marched as the MAX Band. 
 Men, women and children dressed in colorful tunics and conical hats leaned from floats and tossed strings of beads onto the streets. They twirled through the air and clattered onto the ground or into outstretched hands.
 Most of the floats had gentle themes, like ''God Bless New Orleans.'' A few, though, were sassier. One float bearing the likeness of Neptune read: ''FEMA, God of the Sea -- The One That's in Our Living Room.''
 The parades shuffled down St. Charles, where the storm-damaged power lines for the famous streetcars will not be ready until at least December. Krewe members hollered and waved as they passed restored homes and restaurants with ''Now Hiring'' signs and the Williams Super Market, once an emblem of devastation, now under renovation.
 The route said:A lot of work remains for this city with no money. But the parades said: Yes, but this is Mardi Gras. Grab yourself some beads.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Shangri-La parade was led by a float called the ''Captain.'' ''Now the parade's all about the kids,'' one paradegoer said.
Revelers watched as parades wended their way through the streets of New Orleans yesterday, including one with a float called ''Anchors Away.'' (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 Mardi Gras trinkets were tossed aloft in New Orleans yesterday for the first time since the city was hit by Hurricane Katrina nearly six months ago. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARDI GRAS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); WEATHER (75%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); LAKES (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (56%) Carnival (Pre-Lenten); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Parades; Levees; Economic Conditions and Trends; Carnival (Pre-Lenten)

PERSON: Dan Barry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



422 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4029 words

HEADLINE: Through Indian Lands, Drugs' Shadowy Trail

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: ST. REGIS MOHAWK RESERVATION, N.Y. 

 BODY:
He had eluded the authorities for years. Witnesses against him had mysteriously disappeared. Shots were fired from his highly secured compound here last year when the state police tried to close in.
 The man, John V. Oakes, like a fast-rising number of American Indian drug traffickers across the country, saw himself as ''untouchable,'' as one senior investigator put it, protected by armed enforcers and a code of silence that ruled the reservation.
After he was finally arrested last May, Mr. Oakes was recorded from jail talking on the phone with his estranged wife. ''I can't believe people let this happen to me,'' he said, according to Derek Champagne, the Franklin County district attorney who listened to the recorded call. ''You can't touch me. I'm on the reservation, and I do what I want.'' 
 Investigators described Mr. Oakes as an intimidating trafficker who concentrated on stealing drugs and cash from a prosperous and growing cluster of criminals who, like Mr. Oakes, have built sprawling mansions near worn-down trailers on this reservation straddling the Canadian border. 
 Law enforcement officials say Mr. Oakes and the drug lords he is accused of stealing from are part of a violent but largely overlooked wave of trafficking and crime that has swept through the nation's Indian reservations in recent years, as large-scale criminal organizations have found havens and allies in the wide-open and isolated regions of Indian country. 
 In the eyes of law enforcement, reservations have become a critical link in the drug underworld. They have helped traffickers transport high-potency marijuana and Ecstasy from eastern Canada into cities like Buffalo, Boston and New York, and have facilitated the passage of cocaine and methamphetamine from cities in the West and Midwest into rural America.
 In some cases, outside drug gangs work with Indian criminals to distribute drugs on Indian and non-Indian lands. And on a growing number of reservations, drug traffickers -- particularly Mexican criminals -- are marrying Indian women to establish themselves on reservations. 
 At the Lac Courte Oreilles Reservation in northwestern Wisconsin, for instance, several members of the Latin Kings gang married Indian women while a tribal offshoot of the gang built a $3 million crack cocaine ring moving drugs from Milwaukee into and around the reservation over the past few years, prosecutors said. 
 Increasingly American Indians are breaking away to build their own violent, Mafia-like enterprises, according to an examination of dozens of court records and interviews with more than 50 federal and local prosecutors, tribal law enforcement officials and tribal members. 
 ''This is very serious and has created major problems in the community,'' said Clifford Martel, a former senior police investigator for the Red Lake Nation in northern Minnesota, who was fired in July and said it was because he had tried to rid that reservation of drug traffickers with close ties to powerful tribe members.
 ''The amount of drugs was really impacting that community, our community, just as if it were Chicago, and big loads were coming in all the time,'' Mr. Martel said.
 For traffickers of marijuana, cocaine, methamphetamine, painkillers and people, reservations offer many advantages. Law enforcement is spotty at best. Tribal sovereignty, varying state laws and inconsistent federal interest in prosecuting drug crimes create jurisdictional confusion and conflict.
 The deep loyalty that exists within tribes, where neighbors are often related, and the intense mistrust of the American justice system make securing witnesses and using undercover informants extremely difficult. And on some reservations, Indian drug traffickers have close relationships with tribal government or law enforcement officials and enjoy special protection that allows them to operate freely, investigators say. 

A Direct Hand in Trafficking
 Casino money has also fueled the surge, providing a fast-growing source of customers and well-financed partners for outside drug traffickers. And cutbacks in welfare payments in cities have prompted many Indians to return to reservations, often bringing with them connections to gangs and drug rings. 
 Some traffickers have given away drugs to Indians as a way of luring them into the trade. The recently convicted leader of a Mexican drug ring had a chilling strategy on five reservations in Wyoming and the Midwest, the authorities said: targeting tribes with high alcohol addiction rates and handing out free methamphetamine, recruiting the newly addicted Indians as dealers and orchestrating romantic relationships between gang members and Indian women.
 The surge in drug-related crime stands in sharp contrast to the great strides Indians have made over the past several decades, strengthening their sovereignty and culture, making their way into American politics and government and -- for a small but rising number of tribes -- growing rich with new casino revenue. 
 At the same time, American Indians like Mr. Oakes have capitalized on the drug trade, carving out a deep piece of the pie for themselves, after decades in which Indians were typically recruited to help non-Indian traffickers smuggle drugs across the borders and through the country.
 ''They started out solely as mules, then they realized there was an awful lot more profit in dealing directly'' with the upper echelons of organized crime, said Mr. Champagne, the district attorney. ''Why should they just get paid for bringing it across the river?''
 Here on Mohawk land, a reservation of roughly 6,000 people on the United States side, according to the tribe, investigators estimate that 10 to 15 major Indian criminal organizations, along with outside drug rings, move more than $1 billion annually in high-grade marijuana and Ecstasy across the Canadian border, through the reservation and into the Northeast. Prosecutors say they are catching only about 2 percent of that contraband.
 The drug trade afforded Mr. Oakes a lifestyle that neighbors on this reservation could barely dream of. Stealing from other dealers was inherently dangerous -- as Mr. Champagne said, ''I was surprised that he wasn't going to be my next homicide.'' But for Mr. Oakes the rewards outweighed the risk: He owned a gated compound on the St. Lawrence River, with 16 surveillance cameras, a souped-up Lincoln Navigator and several speedboats. 
 Yet at his bail hearing Mr. Oakes told a judge that he was supporting himself solely on a Navy pension.
 Mr. Oakes eventually pleaded guilty to selling drugs to undercover agents, after investigators seized from the compound 17,000 tablets of Ecstasy, worth $340,000 on the street, two pounds of high-grade marijuana and several shotguns and rifles. But investigators said Mr. Oakes was a prime suspect in at least a dozen robberies of drug traffickers, netting him hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, cocaine and marijuana. He is expected to be sentenced next month to 10 years in state prison, the authorities said. 
 The federal government could not provide comprehensive statistics on drug trafficking through reservations. But overall crime figures point to a much higher rate of violence on the nation's 261 federally recognized reservations compared with the rest of the nation. A 2004 Justice Department report found that American Indians and Alaska Natives experienced a per capita rate of violent crime twice that of the United States population. And the number of police officers per capita on Indian reservations is starkly lower than elsewhere in the country, other reports show.
 Steven W. Perry, a statistician with the Justice Department and the author of the 2004 report, a 10-year study of crime in Indian country, said the judicial patchwork that covered Indian reservations had made it impossible to provide an accurate statistical portrait. Of the 561 federally recognized Indian tribes, 171 have their own courts, and only 71 have their own jails, Mr. Perry said. 
 Other federal officials say they are aware, through anecdotal reports and growing concerns reported to them by tribal leaders, of a marked rise in drug trafficking, particularly involving methamphetamine, and crimes like murder and robbery that come in its wake.
 ''It appears there is a very significant crime problem on most of the reservations that we are aware of,'' said Chris Chaney, deputy bureau director of law enforcement services for the Bureau of Indian Affairs. ''I am concerned that it might be escalating within the last couple of years.''

Addiction, Confusion, Corruption
 Although much of the drug trafficking on reservations involves moving the contraband across the nation's borders and from large cities through the states, the drugs often never leave Indian lands. 
 At the Blackfeet Nation in Browning, Mont., methamphetamine addiction is rampant among the 10,000 members of the tribe, unemployment reaches 85 percent in the winter and drug-related violence is widespread. 
 ''It's destroying our culture, our way of life, killing our people,'' said Darrel Rides at the Door, a drug and alcohol counselor who uses traditional healing therapies, burning sage and sweet grass during ''talking circles,'' to cleanse the soul of the demons of addiction. ''A lot of people, they feel sort of disempowered to do anything about it.''
 Local law enforcement officials in Montana, including Jeff Faque, the under sheriff of Glacier County, said that with no jurisdiction over the reservation, they could not stem the large quantities of methamphetamine moving through it in a state with one of the highest rates of meth use in the nation. Mexican gangs based in Washington State are working with Blackfeet Indians and others to traffic methamphetamine into and across Montana, the authorities say. 
 ''It's disheartening,'' Mr. Faque said of his office's lack of legal authority at the Blackfeet Nation. ''I don't think I'll see it solved in my lifetime.''
 Addiction and a jurisdictional morass are only two of the problems associated with the expanding drug trade. Corruption is another. 
 At the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming, a tribal court judge was one of 25 people arrested last May as part of a drug ring accused of moving, over a seven-year period, 30 pounds of methamphetamine, worth more than $1 million, as well as painkillers and marijuana into and through the reservation, said Matthew H. Mead, the United States attorney in Wyoming. 
 The tribal judge, Lynda Munnell Noah, the sister of one of the drug ring's leaders, was accused of threatening to assault and murder a Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforcement officer, prosecutors said. About half of those arrested have pleaded guilty so far; the judge has pleaded not guilty and is expected to go to trial soon. 
 At the Red Lake Reservation in northern Minnesota, four former tribal law enforcement officials and the nation's current chairman said in interviews that internal tribal politics and resistance among court and police employees had created enormous obstacles to ridding the reservation of cocaine traffickers. 
 Investigators say four or five tribal families are controlling the drug trade, most of it in partnership with drug gangs from Minneapolis.
 Mr. Martel, the former senior police investigator at Red Lake, which gained widespread attention last March when a teenager killed nine people and himself at the reservation's high school, said he was fired after three years on the force because he clashed with tribal leaders when he tried to investigate suspects. While the federal government and not the state has jurisdiction over Red Lake, tribal detectives like Mr. Martel are typically the first to investigate criminals and to notify federal prosecutors.
 Mr. Martel's partner, Russ Thomas, who resigned in October, said Red Lake police dispatchers ''would narc us out,'' or alert suspects to criminal investigations. 
 Eventually, Mr. Thomas said, he and Mr. Martel stopped telling others in the police department whom they were investigating, worked their cases at night instead of during the day so they would not be spotted as easily, and changed cars often.
 ''We quit using our own people,'' he said. ''We were doing our job with our hands tied behind our backs.''
 Tim Savior, who served only three months as the Red Lake police chief before the Tribal Council voted him out in January, said he, too, felt that drug-fighting efforts were thwarted by lower-level officials in the courts and police department with support from tribal politicians. 
 ''I was trying to hold people accountable for their duties and responsibilities in the department,'' Mr. Savior said. ''Politicians are trying to control it, and without a separation of powers, law enforcement is expendable. That's why there's a tailspin on reservations -- there's no stability there.''
 Mr. Martel accused the tribal chairman, Floyd Jourdain Jr., of pressing him to drop investigations of relatives, friends and political associates, and he contended that he was fired when he refused to back off.
 But Mr. Jourdain said Mr. Martel was fired for just cause, after portraying himself as an F.B.I. agent during an investigation. Mr. Martel said he was appropriately accompanying an F.B.I. agent, which is standard protocol. The chairman also said there were numerous complaints of rudeness against Mr. Martel and that critics like him were motivated by a political ''smear campaign'' in advance of tribal elections in May.
 Mr. Jourdain acknowledged that his reservation had a serious problem with crack cocaine dealers, but he said he had no role in allowing the drug trade to expand. The problem, he said, lies with lower-level law enforcement employees resistant to change, although he said he had no proof of any illegal action that could lead to their firing.
 ''I've done nothing wrong,'' Mr. Jourdain said. ''I've followed all procedure and gone through the appropriate steps.'' He also said he was disheartened that Mr. Savior had been removed as police chief and had voted against the majority to keep the police chief on.
 The United States attorney in Minnesota, Thomas B. Heffelfinger, whose office prosecutes major crimes on the state's reservations, said one of the reasons few drug criminals had been prosecuted at Red Lake was that the tribal leadership, citing concerns over sovereignty, had removed its two police officers, including Mr. Martel after he was fired, from a federal drug crimes task force in the area.
 The tribe has yet to sign an agreement it received last fall that would put the Red Lake officers back on the task force, which Mr. Heffelfinger said would go a long way toward cracking down on the drug trade there. The agreement, he said, is ''adequate'' for two other Minnesota tribes, at the White Earth and Leech Lake reservations, where the federal task force's work has led to a series of arrests and prosecutions.

'The Black Hole'
 In upstate New York and across the Canadian border, the roughly 11,000 Indians living here now have long dipped their hands into the rewarding till of smuggling, moving goods as varied as diapers and tobacco across this lightly patrolled frontier, 12 wide-open miles of water and land separating the two countries. Some here say that smuggling, dating back to before the days of Prohibition, is a birthright. 
 While much of the nation's drug enforcement effort has focused on the Mexican border, the reservation has become a pipeline for the flow of drugs and guns between Canada and the United States. In warmer weather, speedboats cruise across the St. Lawrence River, ferrying drugs south and weapons and cash north; in the winter cars and vans race over an ice bridge on the river, the authorities say.
 A retired special agent here for the Border Patrol's former antismuggling unit, Edward Barrett, said that when he was working undercover along the Mexican border in Texas, a drug smuggler told him that if he could not move narcotics across the southern border, he could easily do it through Canada and ''the black hole,'' the traffickers' nickname for the Mohawk land. ''It's guaranteed to go through,'' he said. 
 On the 14,000-acre reservation, evidence of the drug trade is easily visible from the million-dollar mansions with high gates and elaborate fences that are being built in a place with an unemployment rate of about 50 percent, and where tumbledown government housing was once the common sight. 
 Despite the many obstacles, prosecutors have had some success in combating drug rings here. In November, Lawrence Mitchell, a member of the Mohawk tribe, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the movement of large quantities of marijuana across the United States-Canada border. Numerous times, according to his plea, Mr. Mitchell, 35, arranged for the transportation of loads averaging 50 to 100 pounds, destined for Syracuse, Utica and other parts of New York; Massachusetts; and Florida. 
 Prosecutors say he also laundered tens of millions of dollars in marijuana trafficking money over three years, through his construction company and car dealership. He was sentenced in November to 10 years in prison.
 Mr. Mitchell -- who owned two houses on the reservation, one on each side of the border, until the authorities seized the American house -- earned at least $2.2 million in drug money from 2001 to 2004, investigators say, but the money trail was hard to follow. 
 Along with Mr. Mitchell, five other people, including a New York State Police dispatcher who was accused of tipping off Mr. Mitchell's drug runners to police presence on the border, have pleaded guilty so far in the case. 
 Mr. Mitchell's lawyer, Stanley Cohen of New York City, who also represented Mr. Oakes and is best known for representing terrorism suspects, said law enforcement officials had used such arrests to wrongly portray the reservation as infested with drug traffickers. And Mr. Cohen objected to investigators' contentions that his clients were involved in criminal activities that went beyond what they admitted to.
 ''If they had evidence of more significant or more egregious or more disturbing activity by either of these clients, they would have proved it,'' he said.
 Meanwhile, as prosecutors say drug traffickers are doing business in Indian country at a rapidly growing pace, many tribes are responding on their own to the drug crime and addiction epidemic.
 At the Mohawk Reservation, the tribe spends more than half the revenue from its casino and other enterprises -- roughly $2 million annually -- on border patrol and other law enforcement. Tribal leaders say they could fight the trafficking here better than outside law enforcement, given adequate resources. ''We feel like that's our responsibility,'' said James W. Ransom, a Mohawk tribal chief. ''That's our goal.''
 The Mohawk tribe has received $5,000 annually from the Department of Homeland Security and used the entire grant over the last two years to build a security fence around the new police headquarters, tribal officials said. 
 Working with stretched resources and huge barriers, many tribal detectives across Indian country say they are facing an impossible task.
 ''If I were a drug trafficker, I'd choose this place,'' said Brian Barnes, deputy chief of police for the Mohawk tribe, as he headed out on the police department's lone working speedboat to patrol the St. Lawrence River.

Gangs Hit Home
 In Wisconsin, Paul DeMain, the managing editor of News From Indian Country, who is married to a member of the Lac Courte Oreilles tribe, confronted the fact that his own son and stepdaughter were initiated members of the Latin Kings. After the gang gained a foothold on the reservation in 1998, Indian criminals set up an affiliate, the Lion Tribe Set, which ran one of the largest crack-cocaine trafficking rings in the history of the state, said John W. Vaudreuil, an assistant United States attorney in Wisconsin. So far, 37 of 40 tribal members have been convicted and sentenced in the case. 
 Mr. DeMain took the painful step of reporting his son's activities to the authorities, he said. His son left the gang, Mr. DeMain said, but his stepdaughter is serving a 20-year sentence in federal prison.
 ''It requires reaching out of that little box of self-protection that the Indian community has always had,'' Mr. DeMain said. ''A reluctance to engage in supporting the federal government, to call in outside resources.''
 Darrel Hillaire, chairman of the Lummi Nation in Northwest Washington, said, ''We've got to step up.''
 ''It's not the federal government's fault,'' Mr. Hillaire said. ''It's us, the leaders. Until it becomes the No. 1 priority in Indian country, we'll continue to play this blame game, and we'll get nothing done.'' 
 Still, there is fierce debate over possible solutions: more money from the federal government for manpower, or more legal authority for tribes that insist they know better how to fight crime within their own borders. Mr. Heffelfinger, who is also the chairman of the Native American Issues Subcommittee of the nation's United States attorneys but has just announced that he is stepping down to return to private practice, acknowledged that drug crimes were ''disproportionately high'' on reservations.
 But he said tribes with significant casino revenue now had new options for financing drug addiction recovery and law enforcement programs. Many tribes have funneled gambling and other business revenue toward those needs.
 Mr. Heffelfinger described crime fighting on the Mohawk Reservation as a ''success story'' because of the recent partnerships between tribal, local, state, federal and Canadian law enforcement agencies, which helped lead to the arrest of traffickers like Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Oakes. But investigators vehemently disagreed that there was anything resembling a success story here. 
 One afternoon, tribal and county detectives were preparing to take what was their lone speedboat -- they recently obtained another one confiscated from a drug trafficker -- out for a patrol on the St. Lawrence River. 
 They tried to start the boat, but the battery was dead. They spent hours trying to drag the boat through the mud and up onto a riverbank with a pickup truck. The detectives shook their heads and said they suspected that the traffickers were crossing the river at that very moment, with loads of drugs stashed on their many speedboats.

 POPULATION: 8,331
 AREA: 243 sq. mi.
 TYPES OF ACTIVITY: Tribal investigators say a growing number of outside criminal organizations, including a Colombian drug cartel, have taken an interest in using this reservation as an operating base. Last May, 13 people were indicted in connection with a meth trafficking ring that moved 40 pounds monthly through the reservation.

Albany, NEW YORK
RESERVATION: St. Regis Mohawk
POPULATION: 10,000 *
AREA: 21 sq. mi.
TYPES OF ACTIVITY: An estimated $1 billion in high-potency marijuana and a rising amount of Ecstasy are smuggled annually from Canada through the reservation to northeast cities, including Buffalo, Boston and New York. Guns and cocaine move north into Canada and are often exchanged for the marijuana, officials say.

Phoenix, ARIZONA
RESERVATION: Tohono O'odham
POPULATION: 10,787
AREA: 4,454 sq. mi.
TYPES OF ACTIVITY: An estimated 1,500 people are smuggled north from Mexico through the reservation daily. In 2004, 300,000 pounds of narcotics were seized there, the authorities said. The tribe, which is lobbying the federal government for increased financing to protect the border, now spends $3.1 million of its own money on border security.

Madison, WISCONSIN
 RESERVATION: Lac Courte Oreilles
 POPULATION: 2,900
 AREA: 124 sq. mi.
 TYPES OF ACTIVITY: A Milwaukee chapter of the Latin Kings began using this reservation to traffic crack cocaine in 1998, prosecutors say. Soon after that, an all- Indian chapter of the gang, the Lion Tribe Set, branched out and ran a $3 million crack ring on the reservation. Thirtyseven of the 40 tribal members involved have been sentenced so far.

Maps of the States and Cites listed above.

Includes U.S. and Canada

(pg. 26)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ROUTES ACROSS A RIVER -- On the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation, which straddles New York and Canada, vehicle tracks are visible along the frozen St. Lawrence River.
SPOILS OF THE DRUG TRADE -- John V. Oakes, top, built a gated compound on the St. Regis Reservation, above, with 16 cameras on the property. He has pleaded guilty to selling drugs to undercover agents. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 26)
 CONFRONTING ADDICTION -- Darrel Rides at the Door, a drug and alcohol counselor, leading a ''talking circle,'' which is used as a traditional healing therapy. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 27)Chart: ''Tribes And Trafficking''Seattle, WASHINGTONRESERVATION: Lummi NationPOPULATION: 4,193AREA: 37 sq. mi.TYPES OF ACTIVITY: In 2003, after a $1.5 million illegal painkiller industry far outpaced the revenues from either the salmon industry or the casino, the tribal government cracked down on drug dealers and traffickers and began to banish convicted tribal offenders. Since then, the tribe has reported a sharp drop in the number of drug offenses.Cheyenne, WYOMINGRESERVATION: Wind RiverPOPULATION: 23,250AREA: 3,532 sq. mi.TYPES OF ACTIVITY: Prosecutors have cracked two major trafficking cases here recently. One involved a Mexican drug trafficker who targeted Wind River and five other tribes in the West and Midwest, luring addicts into the drug trade. Another was a Wind River-based ring that trafficked and sold more than $1 million in methamphetamine over seven years.Minneapolis, MINNESOTARESERVATION: Red LakePOPULATION: 5,162AREA: 1,259 sq. mi.TYPES OF ACTIVITY: Investigators say several Indian crime families are trafficking crack cocaine, bringing it from Minneapolis for distribution on and around the reservation, but few traffickers have been arrested. Former law enforcement officials say investigations are met with resistance from tribe members with possible connections to the traffickers.Helena, MONTANARESERVATION:Blackfeet NationPOPULATION: 10,100AREA: 2,401 sq. mi.TYPES OF ACTIVITY: The authorities say a drug pipeline from eastern Washington State into Montana has flooded this area with meth, in a state that has one of the highest rates of abuse in the nation. The meth is both manufactured in labs in eastern Washington and trafficked into the region by Mexican gangs sometimes working with Indians.Bismarck, NORTH DAKOTARESERVATION: Turtle Mountain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); COCAINE (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); CANNABIS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); ECSTASY (70%); METHAMPHETAMINE (70%); LARCENY & THEFT (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); GAMING (60%); SHOOTINGS (58%); GANGS (53%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Indians, American; Gambling; Casinos; Organized Crime; Surveys and Series; Drug Abuse and Traffic

PERSON: Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); HELENA, MT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



423 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Enlisting School Bus Drivers to Keep an Eye Out for Terrorists 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NORFOLK, Va., Feb. 18 

 BODY:
Jeffrey Beatty, a security expert, paints a picture of a deadly plot: terrorists monitor a punctual school bus driver for weeks, then hijack his bus and load it with enough explosives to take down a building. But an alert driver could foil that plan, Mr. Beatty told a class of 250 drivers in Norfolk. After all, bus drivers cover millions of miles of roads. They know the towns, the children, the parents.
 School bus drivers around the country are being trained to watch for potential terrorists, in a program financed by the Homeland Security Department. Designers of the program, called School Bus Watch, want to turn 600,000 drivers into an army of observers. 
 ''The terrorist is not going to be able to do some of their casing and rehearsal activity without being detected by one of you,'' Mr. Beatty, a former antiterrorism officer, told the drivers in his class. The more people watching, he said, the safer the community would be.
 Such a training program demands strong oversight, said John Rollins, a former senior Homeland Security intelligence official now with the Congressional Research Service. Otherwise, he said, some bus drivers could think of themselves as undercover agents.
 ''Today it's bus drivers, tomorrow it could be postal officials, and the next day, it could be, 'Why don't we have this program in place for the people who deliver the newspaper to the door?' '' Mr. Rollins said. ''We could quickly get into a society where we're all spying on each other. It may be well intentioned, but there is a concern of going a bit too far.''
 Most school bus drivers work part time, often to supplement other income. Many are retirees, mothers with young children, people between jobs or school employees who also work as mechanics, janitors or classroom aides, according to government and industry officials.
 Under the security program, the drivers are not being trained to be police officers. Their role is to report suspicious behavior to dispatchers, who alert the police and funnel tips to a national analysis center.
 The new effort is part of Highway Watch, a safety program run by the American Trucking Association and financed since 2003 with $50 million in domestic security money.
 So far, tens of thousands of bus operators have been trained in places large and small, including Dallas and New York. 
 ''As a bus driver, going down the same streets and going into the same neighborhoods every day, you know when there's a car that shouldn't be there,'' said Bob Pearson, who drives a school bus in Fairfax County, Va. ''You have to realize that a school bus goes everywhere.''
 In Norfolk, Shelita Hill, a driver for 23 years, acknowledged that she never thought of her school bus as a target of terrorism until she heard Mr. Beatty speak. Neither had many others in the class.
 ''He woke us up,'' Ms. Hill said.
 Schools are the kind of target that terrorists want, Mr. Beatty said: a place where an attack could have huge symbolic impact and lead to many casualties and spectacular images.
 To underscore the point, he reminded drivers of the crisis in Beslan, Russia, in 2004, when terrorists stormed a school, leaving 331 adults and children dead after a storm of gunfire and explosions.
 In Virginia, bus drivers were taught how to identify and evaluate unusual activity. What drew your attention to this person in the first place? Is someone unfamiliar taking photographs or drawing sketches of the area? Is the person asking a lot of questions about the bus route?
 Drivers were also shown how to inspect their buses, not just for routine maintenance flaws, but also for tampering.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Pearson, a former homicide detective who drives a bus in Virginia, says drivers can easily notice unusual or suspicious situations. (Photo by Caleb Jones/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (92%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (91%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ARMIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%) Terrorism; Buses; Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (90%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (55%) Homeland Security Department

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



424 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Few Found Alive After Mud Buries Town in Philippines

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE; Seth Mydans contributed reporting from Bangkok for this article.

DATELINE: GUINSAUGON, the Philippines, Sunday, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Elsa Misa Timbang shrieked as soon as she saw the swath of brown dirt completely covering what used to be her village. ''Where are they?'' she wailed hysterically to rescuers.
 Ms. Timbang had just arrived from London, hoping to see more than a dozen relatives, including her parents, six brothers and sisters and six nephews and nieces.
Ms. Timbang asked again: ''Have you found anybody. Are they still alive?'' Her cries almost muffled the sound of the earth-moving equipment nearby. 
 A rescuer shook his head. ''I don't know,'' he said.
 Officially, the landslide on Friday, one of the worst in this country in recent memory, killed 57 people, but more than 1,800 are still missing. 
 Rescuers had not found any survivors by late morning on Sunday, and only three bodies had been recovered.
 Two hundred and forty-six people were believed buried in an elementary school building that was among the first to be buried.
 Rescue efforts have been focused on the school, especially since, according to relatives, some of the victims managed to send phone text messages late Friday.
 ''We're still in one room, alive,'' Agence France-Presse quoted a message sent to a daughter of one of the teachers. Another text message read: ''We are alive. Dig us out.''
 But no more messages were reported Saturday.
 The sun was shinning on Sunday, after almost nonstop rain for nearly two weeks. Rescuers were still hampered by the soft mud that covered practically every inch of this village.
 A United States military team arrived Sunday to assess the situation and provide help. Two American military vessels and two helicopters arrived late Sunday morning. 
 ''This is going to be tough, but we're here to help,'' said Capt. Burrell Parmer of the Army. ''Our top priority is search and rescue.''
 In all, two American warships carrying 17 helicopters and 1,000 marines were diverted from military exercises, and two more Navy vessels were bringing supplies, the American Embassy said.
 The Philippines military dispatched trucks with medicine, rice and clothes provided by Unicef and the United States Agency for International Development.
 Witnesses in Guinsaugon, about 400 miles south of Manila, said there was no longer any sign of the town -- only what looked like a newly plowed field, with bits and pieces of roofing and debris from 375 destroyed homes sticking up through the mud.
 Rescuers were having difficulty reaching the village, on the island of Leyte, and when they arrived, they found their every effort hampered by the mud, which was at least 30 feet deep in some spots. Walking was nearly impossible, and bringing in heavy equipment to dig out survivors seemed out of the question. 
 ''We presume that more or less than 1,800 are feared dead,'' said Lt. Col. Raul Farnacio, who was overseeing the rescue effort. 
 The colonel said that many more bodies had been found, but that rescuers -- who were feeling bodies under their feet as they slogged through the mud -- were trying to focus on the living.
 ''There's just too many dead bodies,'' he said. ''For now, we are just leaving the dead because our main concern is to recover the survivors if there are any. If you ask me, hopes are dimming.''
 One survivor, Alfredo Guab, 27, told The Associated Press that the inundation had taken no more than two minutes to bury the entire village.
 Like other survivors, he said he heard what sounded like a loud explosion before the mud came cascading down.
 Rescuers said mud continued to slide down the hillside, making their work more dangerous. Eleven nearby villages were evacuated, The A.P. reported. 
 The International Red Cross began an emergency appeal for $1.5 million for relief operations, and China pledged $250,000 in cash and other emergency relief to the Philippines, the Chinese state media reported.
 President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo said in a statement: ''I call on each Filipino to pray for the victims and the survivors. It breaks my heart to think of those precious schoolchildren whose innocence and hope have been so tragically snuffed out.''
 Officials said an immediate need at the scene was for drinking water, with wells buried or contaminated. The remoteness of the area was making it difficult for supplies to be delivered.
 Huge landslides and flash floods occur frequently in the Philippines, where deforestation has denuded hillsides and where monsoon rains soak into the soil, then come roaring down. 
 Eulogio Dala, municipal assessor of Guinsaugon's district, said, ''We had 30 villages before, now we only have 29.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A crowd gathered near the mudslide area of Guinsaugon yesterday awaiting news of relatives. Rescuers had trouble walking in the dense mud. (Photo by Pat Roque/Associated Press)
 A year-old survivor of Friday's mudslide got medical help yesterday. (Photo by Joel Nito/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (86%); NAVAL VESSELS (86%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MISSING PERSONS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (71%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (70%); NAVIES (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); HELICOPTERS (63%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (63%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Weather; Landslides and Mudslides; Rain; Rescues; Missing Persons; Children and Youth; Education and Schools; Weather

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Carlos H Conde

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%) PHILIPPINES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) Philippines ; Guinsaugon (Philippines); Leyte Island (Philippines)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



425 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: On Great Lakes, Winter Is Served Straight Up

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MAAG

DATELINE: PUT-IN-BAY, Ohio 

 BODY:
Two years ago, Sophia Schroeder had the best birthday of her life. She stood on frozen Lake Erie near this town on South Bass Island and ate ice cream. Her father dragged her sled across the ice behind his snowmobile. 
 Later they ate birthday cake around a huge bonfire built right on the ice. ''That was my favorite birthday party ever,'' said Sophia, now 7. 
This year, Sophia spent her birthday inside, playing video games with friends. ''It's really boring here without ice,'' she said. 
 For the first time that anyone in Put-in-Bay could remember, the Great Lakes were ice-free in the middle of winter. Even Lake Erie, the shallowest of the five lakes and usually the first to freeze over, was clear. 
 ''There's essentially no ice at all,'' said George Leshkevich, a scientist who has studied Great Lakes ice for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA, since 1973. ''I've never seen that.''
 The unusually warm weather has upset the routine for hundreds of people who live year-round on islands in Lake Erie. On summer weekends, 14,000 tourists turn South Bass, the largest island on the American side of Lake Erie, into a teeming resort. 
 ''You either make your money in the summer or you don't make it at all,'' said Tip Niese, owner of the grocery store in Put-in-Bay, the only town on the island. 
 The first ice usually forms in late November, and by January it locks into place. For islanders, it is the equivalent of summer vacation. 
 ''Winter is the only time we get to see our friends,'' says Maggie Beckford, president of the Put-in-Bay chamber of commerce. ''Everybody's too busy during the summer.'' 
 Once the lake freezes, islanders organize impromptu ice rallies. Families gather to drink hot wine and race all-terrain vehicles across the lake. They also race iceboats, which resemble sailboats on skates. Put-in-Bay even has its own ice yacht club. 
 Many people drive to other islands for dinner with friends. They ride in cars with the roofs and doors chopped off so they can escape if the vehicles fall through the ice. Islanders stab evergreen trees into the ice every 50 yards to mark a route. 
 ''We'll drive across the lake to Canada, have a cocktail, then turn around and come home,'' says Kendra Koehler, editor of the monthly Put-in-Bay Gazette. 
 Even in the coldest winters, there are dangerous patches of thin ice. The cracks are so predictable that the Put-in-Bay Ice Yacht Club prints them on a map. One is called State Park Crack. Another, Green Island Crack, is known to be particularly wide and treacherous. 
 ''These big sheets of ice move just like tectonic plates,'' said Billy Market, president of the Miller Boat Line, a ferry company. 
 Knowing the cracks by heart is a job requirement for ice-fishing guides, who form the backbone of the islands' winter economy. On a normal winter day, the ice is dotted with 2,000 fishing shanties. 
 ''It looks like a little city,'' said Matt Miller, a ferry boat captain who is not related to the family that started the company. 
 Even small, part-time guides bring 10 to 14 people across on weekends. ''That's 14 hotel rooms, 14 steak dinners,'' said Pat Chrysler, a guide. ''In a small community, that's a lot.''
 This year, the unusually warm weather wiped out the ice-fishing trade. Many guides tried boat fishing, but strong winds whipped up sediment and clouded the water so the walleyes could not see the lures. ''I'm down $40,000,'' said Bud Gehring, another guide. ''It's hurt everybody.'' 
 With no ice fishing, 1,200 cases of beer sat unsold, stacked to the ceiling inside Niese's Island General Store. A bed-and-breakfast owner, Jean Burgess, has not rented a room all winter. 
 For the first time in its 100-year history, Miller Boat Lines ran a ferry across Lake Erie through the month of January. ''We're not making money here,'' Mr. Market says. ''It's our duty to do this.''
 The ferry costs $12, and that means less work for airplane pilots, who charge $80 to fly round-trip to the islands. 
 ''This has knocked a big hole out of our business,'' said Melodie Griffing-Taylor, who has helped run Griffing Airlines since 1962. ''I've never seen anything like it.''
 No one has, and that makes some islanders ponder the larger trend. ''This winter makes global warming seem more real,'' Mr. Gehring said. 
 ''The weather sure is screwy the last couple years,'' Ms. Burgess says. ''Global warming? Could be.''
 Others are skeptical. ''I don't believe in global warming,'' Ms. Griffing-Taylor said. ''Weather cycles. It always has.''
 Whether differences in water temperature or ice thickness from year to year are symptoms of global warming or merely part of the weather cycle is open to debate. 
 Even Brent Lofgren, a NOAA climatologist who believes in global warming, said that ''in a small, regional area over a short period of time, it's hard to know what's happening.'' 
 On South Bass Island, even the people who have benefited from the warmer winter weather begrudge it. In his 26 years with the Miller Boat Line, maintenance manager Dave Bianci had never worked during the winter. Until now.
 ''All things being equal,'' he said, ''I'd rather be ice fishing.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Matt Miller prepares to dock at Put-in-Bay, Ohio, on Lake Erie, which has not frozen over this winter. (Photo by Amy E. Voigt for The New York Times)Map of Ohio highlighting Put-in-Bay and nearby areas: Put-in-Bay and nearby areas rely on ice-fishing income in winter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (91%); ICE CREAM (90%); FISHES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); OCEANOGRAPHY (73%); STATE PARKS (73%); WEATHER (73%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); SAILING (66%) Weather; Ice; Global Warming; Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport; Weather

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: Christopher Maag

GEOGRAPHIC: LAKE ERIE (96%); GREAT LAKES (93%) UNITED STATES (79%) Lake Erie

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



426 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Within Islam's Embrace, a Voice for Malaysia's Women

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Sometimes it seems that Zainah Anwar -- articulate, a little brassy, a presence wherever she goes -- single-handedly keeps the flame for women's rights alive in Malaysia, a country that portrays itself as the model of a progressive Muslim society.
 With the acid touch that has made her an accomplished campaigner, Ms. Zainah calls the officials in the government religious departments ''those Taliban-minded bureaucrats.'' Then skittering back from the precipice of real trouble, she notes that nearly 50 percent of Malaysian women work, some in top jobs, including the governor of the Central Bank. 
 Ms. Zainah, one of her nation's best known figures, is a founder of Sisters in Islam, sassily known as SIS, which has for nearly 20 years lobbied for justice for women, always within the framework of Islam and the words of the Koran. 
 In doing so, her group confronts the conundrum that is Malaysia: a relatively prosperous, politically stable nation of 24 million yet one where powerful Islamic Affairs Departments in the 13 states and a federal jurisdiction that includes the capital, Kuala Lumpur, run Shariah courts that administer Islamic affairs, including matters of marriage, divorce and death. 
 ''I want an Islam that upholds the principles of justice, equality, freedom and dignity,'' she said. ''There is nothing contradictory between wanting these principles to guide and govern your life and being a good Muslim.'' 
 In her latest victory, Ms. Zainah forced the government to step back from amendments to the family law that made it easier for men to practice polygamy and to divorce.
 Her group fought the amendments not only because they represented a backward step, but also because the governing party of Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi insisted that the women in the Senate who personally opposed the new amendments vote in their favor. 
 ''Senators were told to vote against their conscience,'' said Ms. Zainah, 51, who attended graduate school in the United States. ''Can you imagine, in the debate, one minister apologized to her daughter for having to vote with the party whips. She was in tears.'' 
 The Parliament passed the amendments just before the end of the year, and Ms. Zainah began a strong opposition campaign that was covered in the news media. In mid-January, the government announced that the cabinet would review the measures. Ms. Zainah and members of other women's groups and the bar association were invited to join a broad commission to find a compromise.
 ''The cabinet ordered the attorney general -- and not the religious department -- to find solutions,'' she said triumphantly. ''They recognized that the religious department and its obscurantist apparatchiks are the source of the problem.'' It was the first time, she said, that the forces of progress were sitting in the same room ''on equal terms'' with Islamic clerics and scholars. 
 As satisfying as the win might be, it illustrated the extent of the opposition Ms. Zainah and her supporters still face. 
 The politics of Islam in Malaysia are defined by the hand of former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who governed for 22 years before stepping aside in 2004. He left a country that, in contrast to many others in Southeast Asia, gives the impression of actually working -- big roads, new factories -- and that recovered smartly from the regional economic downturn of the late 1990's. 
 In order to keep at bay the leading Islamic party, Parti Islam se-Malaysia, Mr. Mahathir poured resources into the religious bureaucracy, giving it powers in the states and at the federal level on all matters to do with Islam. Malaysia is an Islamic state, unlike neighboring Indonesia, which rejected Islam as part of its Constitution at independence from the Dutch. 
 When Mr. Abdullah took over as Mr. Mahathir's successor in 2004, he was seen as a reformer who would soften the increasingly rigid Islam of the religious courts. But so far, Mr. Abdullah has taken few steps to curb the powers of the religious leaders. 
 Instead, the government closed a provincial newspaper, The Sarawak Tribune, on Feb. 9 after it published the Danish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad, and made it an offense to own or copy the cartoons.
 But Ms. Zainah said she believed that Mr. Abdullah would be forced to moderate the policies of the religious leaders to save Malaysia's reputation. She also said the prime minister, who is chairman of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, is genuinely progressive.
 In an embarrassing incident last month, Islamic religious authorities insisted on giving a Malaysian celebrity an Islamic burial, even though his family testified that he remained a Hindu until his death. The man, known simply as Moorthy, was the first Malaysian to scale Mount Everest. After Muslim authorities took away his body for burial, his wife appealed to a civil court. Her plea was refused. 
 But soon after, the prime minister announced that the attorney general would consult with a cross section of society to establish a new policy on the conversion of non-Muslims to Islam.
 ''A model progressive Muslim country,'' Ms. Zainah observed, ''cannot show the world that it makes laws that discriminate against women and that allows its religious authorities to snatch away the body of a dead man from his grieving Hindu family.'' 
 As Ms. Zainah, a graduate of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, goes into battle, she holds some formidable cards. Chief among them are candor, not caring what others think and a refusal to be intimidated. She has not married, and said, ''I don't want to be a slave to a man.'' 
 Another advantage: Ms. Zainah is close to two progressive women with powerful connections, Marina Mahathir, the daughter of the former prime minister, and Nori Abdullah, the daughter of the current prime minister. ''He gets an earful from her,'' Ms. Zainah said, referring to Mr. Abdullah and his daughter. 
 At the end of a conference here on Islam and the West organized by New York University and the Malaysian government, the former president of Iran, Mohammad Khatami, asked to see Ms. Zainah and her colleagues. 
 What did she think of Mr. Khatami? ''He failed to deliver,'' she said after their encounter. ''When you govern in the name of Islam and fail to deliver on the aspirations of the people, Islam is seen to have failed. You bring disrepute to the religion. They found out Islam does not, after all, have the answers.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Zainah Anwar, a founder of Sisters in Islam, a women's advocacy group. (Photo by Tara Sosrowardoyo for The New York Times)
 Islamic authorities in Malaysia recently ordered that a well-known Malaysian Hindu be buried as a Muslim, against the wishes of his wife. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); POLYGAMY (77%); POLITICS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FAMILY LAW (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FAMILY (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%) Women; Islam; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Politics and Government

PERSON: Jane Perlez; Zainah Anwar

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%) MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Malaysia; Malaysia

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



427 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: As Property Values Rise, Homeowners Feel Pinch

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: BOISE, Idaho 

 BODY:
Charlotte Snow assails the rising property taxes on her 33-acre spread here in the windswept foothills above the state capital.
 ''I've got a tarp on my roof and plastic on my windows to keep the heat in,'' Ms. Snow said. ''I never intended to live like this. But I don't have enough to pay my property tax bill, much less keep the place fixed up.''
For several days this month, Ms. Snow sat and watched as a panel of Idaho legislators heard testimony about a battery of proposals, more than three dozen of them intended to ease voter anxiety about the state's skyrocketing property taxes. When her time came to testify, amid a parade of economists, homeowners, lobbyists and statehouse gadflies, she wept and begged the state to do something to save the rural life she had come to Idaho to enjoy.
 ''The whole question is, why do I have to sell my home because the taxes went crazy?'' she said. ''All I've got is a rundown barn in the middle of Idaho.'' 
 Nearly everyone complains about property taxes, but Ms. Snow seems to have a particular point. In the last year, when her land on the edge of Boise's creeping sprawl was reclassified to residential property from agricultural, her taxes rose to $10,871 from $2,200.
 Soaring home prices, shifting population and sporadic budget crunches have combined to make property taxes one of the thorniest sources of voter anger and legislative angst in dozens of states. Call it the dark side of the real estate boom. 
 ''There is a lot of interest in property tax relief across the country,'' said Bert Waisanen, who studies tax trends for the National Conference of State Legislatures. ''A lot of states have either recently enacted or are considering a variety of mechanisms, often aimed at finding relief for senior citizens and low-income homeowners who get swamped by rising property values.''
 A handful of state legislatures are grappling with the matter now. In Texas, legislators are under a June 1 deadline set by the state's Supreme Court, which ruled that the current property tax system is unconstitutional. A mishmash of proposals are being considered by Indiana legislators to stanch rising voter anger over rising property taxes, including proposals to raise other taxes. In South Carolina, legislators are arguing whether to let voters decide in a November referendum what to do about rising property assessments.
 In Nevada, where legislators voted last year to limit the annual rise in property taxes to 3 percent, school districts are at least thinking smaller. Just last month in Washoe County, which includes Reno, administrators shelved plans for a $95 million technical high school and the expansion of several existing schools until the full impact of the new law can be measured.
 Two years ago, the Pennsylvania Legislature passed a law legalizing slot machines, whose revenue was to offset property taxes, but three-fourths of the state's school districts decided to opt out of the plan. So legislators found themselves squabbling again over the issue. 
 The revolt is not yet of the scope that led California voters to pass Proposition 13 a quarter-century ago, spawning a drastic reduction in property taxes. Idaho is one of the states where the complaints are fiercest, and the Legislature is expected to adopt some changes this year to defuse the grass-roots anger.
 Tax experts speak of the ''three-legged stool'' on which state tax policies are based, a mix of income, sales and property taxes. What has happened, as a result of booming house prices, they say, is that the property tax leg of the stool has grown disproportionately long, putting a noticeable burden on homeowners. And what makes property taxes even more politically delicate is that they are often a state's prime source of public school financing.
 ''The larger the state's role in financing public education, the less terrible the tax revolt is, generally,'' said Myron Orfield, a law professor at the University of Minnesota who specializes in urban and regional growth. ''Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, for instance, are very dependent on local property taxes for schools, and they have seen some of the fiercest revolts.'' In some places, the furor has been muted with the gains in home prices.
 ''Right now, I'd have to say, the number of tax revolts is not quite as widespread as they were a year ago,'' said David Brunori, a professor of public policy at George Washington University who specializes in state tax issues. ''For one reason, the real estate market is cooling in many parts of the country.''
 Suggesting that certain types of taxes are palatable when designated for something tangible, voters in California, Colorado and Washington rejected ballot measures to roll back some types of tax increases or to limit state spending last November.
 Still, in the handful of states where grass-roots tax revolts are brewing, Mr. Brunori said that they were boiling briskly.
 Bill Goodnight, 66, a retired fish-and-game biologist, has kept scrupulous track of the taxes on his 100-year-old home on Boise's far northeast side. When he bought the house in 1989 for $59,500, he paid $454 in property taxes. The bill rose to $909 in 1995, $1,507 in 2000 and $3,005 last year, when his house was assessed at $225,000, increasing his tax payments by more than 560 percent.
 ''Taxes on businesses and developers haven't gone up nearly so fast,'' Mr. Goodnight said. ''So we feel like they're making ordinary citizens subsidize the state's growth. Everything's geared to grease the skids for development. It's time we got things into better balance.''
 Kenneth Robison, a former Democratic legislator, has become one of the loudest proponents of easing Idaho's property taxes.
 ''In the last two years, residential taxes have increased nine times as much as taxes on commercial and other property,'' Mr. Robison said. ''Since 1976, residential property taxes went up 1,094 percent compared to 320 percent for nonresidential properties. This is causing a major hardship for a lot of people in this state.''
 Growing unrest led to the introduction of several bills in last year's legislative session, but legislators decided to form a special committee to study the issue further.
 ''They thought if they just formed a commission, the issue would go away,'' said Chuck Thomas, a retired Boise resident who also testified before the committee. Instead, hundreds of angry voters showed up at a dozen hearings around the state last summer to harangue legislators, particularly in areas like fast-growing Boise and the resort areas of Ketchum and Coeur d'Alene, where home prices are rising fastest.
 The result was the current jumble of proposals, mimicking the approaches taken in other states.
 Already, Idaho has a $50,000 homeowners' exemption on owner-occupied dwellings, a figure that seemed sizable in 1982, when it was originally passed, but less so as property values rose. One bill on its way to the House floor would raise that exemption to $75,000; others have suggested raising it to $100,000.
 Others want to cap the amount that taxes can rise in a given year at 5 percent, no matter how much the property's value goes up. Others talk about shifting some of the burden to the sales tax. And some Republican legislators are looking at the spending side, proposing a limit on local government growth, thereby limiting the need for higher property taxes.
 Most of the opposition to altering the state's property tax structure has come from developers and business groups, worried that lower tax bills for homeowners will mean higher tax bills for them. 
 ''The truth is, Idaho has some of the lowest property taxes in the country and our system is really pretty balanced and not in need of dramatic change,'' said Steve Ahrens, president of the Idaho Association of Commerce and Industry, which lobbies on behalf of the state's businesses. ''But it seems pretty clear that something will come out of the Legislature this year, probably a mix of several approaches. Because there is no single silver bullet.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Goodnight and other Idaho homeowners are part of a grass-roots tax revolt that is pressing state legislators, above, to address property taxes.
 Taxes for Charlotte Snow's farm near Boise, Idaho, rose to $10,871 from $2,200 in just one year because her land became classified as residential. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); TAX ASSESSORS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) Taxation; Property Taxes; States (US); Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Aged; Income; Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Rick Lyman

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (93%); RENO, NV, USA (51%) IDAHO, USA (96%); INDIANA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Idaho; Texas; Indiana

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



428 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: A Star in Harlem Is Reborn, One Velour Seat at a Time

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
In 1934, when Frank Schiffman, a white theater manager, took over Hurtig and Seamon's New Burlesque Theater on West 125th Street in Harlem, he decided to rename it.
 ''He named it after Apollo, the Greek god of the sun, of poetry and of healing,'' said Billy Mitchell, the Apollo Theater's resident historian.
Today, the four-story building -- where a 15-year-old Ella Fitzgerald was the winner on its first amateur night -- is undergoing yet another, and perhaps its most significant, transformation. 
 After a bruising conflict that began in the late 1990's -- in which a lawsuit by the state attorney general was narrowly averted -- new management led by an entertainment lawyer was installed in June 2003.
 The lawyer, Jonelle Procope, 54, is heading a $65 million renovation of the Apollo, a sweeping structural and institutional makeover expected to be completed by the end of 2008.
 In December, a major part of the renovation was unveiled: about a third of the theater's crumbling facade had been rebuilt, its dilapidated marquee replaced with a computer-driven display and its faded signature ''Apollo'' sign given a new gleam.
 Last week, the theater presented more renovations, including velour seats that are wider and have more leg room. The cramped seats they replaced had been left over from the first half of the 20th century.
 In July and August, the theater will close for still more renovations, including the installation of better dressing rooms and the rebuilding of the stage to better accommodate dance companies and other types of entertainment.
 Those renovations, known as Phase 1, have consumed about half of the $65 million renovation budget, which was financed by private contributions as well as a $4.5 million grant from the federal Economic Development Administration and $20.4 million from the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 Phase 2, which involves walls, ceilings and everything else, is set to be completed in 2008. It will require extensive fund-raising at a time when corporations and government agencies are reluctant to give.
 ''It will be very difficult,'' said Ms. Procope, who worked at the Manhattan law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.
 But the work is important, she said, because the Apollo was not only ''a cultural icon'' and ''a beacon of light'' for Harlem, but also ''an economic driver for 125th Street.
 ''When people come uptown to the Apollo,'' she said, ''they shop at local shops and eat at local restaurants. It's a beautiful thing.''
 Although the Apollo has been a nonprofit foundation since 1992, it is pursuing its mission with a new fervor, Ms. Procope said.
 Favorite acts still appear. The O'Jays, best known for their 1973 hit ''Love Train,'' appeared on Valentine's Day. Cece Winans and Roberta Flack are scheduled for next month.
 Wednesday Amateur Nights resumed last week, and taping of the television show ''Showtime at the Apollo'' is to start up again this month. 
 As part of its new focus, the Apollo is also presenting a ''New Works'' series in April that will include poetry and theater works. For example, Cristal Chanelle Truscott, an actress and playwright, will stage her first play, ''Peaches,'' about the stereotyping of black women from slavery days to modern times.
 The nonprofit mission may also help on a longstanding problem. The theater is too small to compete with larger houses. As something approaching a community arts center, it now does not have to. 
 With fewer than 1,500 seats, it could never sell enough tickets to compete with bigger houses with 6,000 to 8,000 seats. Big-name acts performed, but more out of respect than for fees.
 From the late 1990's until 2002, the theater considered expanding into the 2,800-seat Loews Victoria Theater, four doors east on 125th Street. But with the stricken economy after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Ms. Procope said, ''it was an ambitious project that would have been difficult to fund-raise around.''
 A recent Apollo bid to be part of a proposed entertainment complex in the Victoria Theater failed when the Apollo was not picked as a finalist.
 Still, the Apollo has come far from its most turbulent years. In 1999, in return for a new board of directors, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer agreed to drop a lawsuit charging that the board and its chairman at the time, Representative Charles B. Rangel, had failed to collect millions of dollars owed by Inner City Broadcasting -- a company headed by Percy Sutton, a former Manhattan borough president and friend of Mr. Rangel's.
 Mr. Sutton, a major benefactor of the Apollo, and Mr. Rangel denied any wrongdoing. On Friday, Mr. Rangel did not return calls. Mr. Sutton, asked if he wanted to comment on the new management, replied, ''I think not.''
 Last week, Mr. Mitchell, the Apollo's resident historian and its tour director, noted that the Apollo's chandeliers were made of fine Venetian crystal, not ordinary glass.
 ''My grandmother taught me how to tell the difference,'' he said, as he rocked from side-to-side, like Stevie Wonder when he performed on the Apollo stage. ''See?'' Mr. Mitchell said, noting the many colors reflected. ''It's the genuine article.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 19 about a $65 million renovation of the Apollo Theater in Harlem misidentified the fabric used for its new seats. They are made of polyolefin, not velour. A picture caption misidentified an object in the lobby. It is a replica of the Tree of Hope, which contestants in the theater's amateur nights rub for good luck; the original tree is stored backstage.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Tree of Hope, which performers touched for luck before making amateur night appearances, is now a centerpiece in the Apollo's lobby.
 Jonelle Procope, the president and chief executive of the Apollo, is heading a $65 million renovation expected to be completed in 2008. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); DANCE (73%); BUDGETS (73%); HISTORY (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Theaters (Buildings); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Historic Buildings and Sites

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%) Apollo Theater (NYC)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez; Jonelle Procope

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Harlem (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



429 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: A Blueprint For Conflict At Ground Zero

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
At a downtown breakfast meeting nearly three years ago, Gov. George E. Pataki made the tallest building planned for the World Trade Center site also its most richly symbolic one when he called it the ''Freedom Tower.'' 
 Eager to counter claims that the rebuilding effort had lost momentum, Mr. Pataki declared that the 1,776-foot tall tower would be the first building finished, in 2008, and the governor's office would be the first tenant to move in.
 ''For the first time since the attacks, we have not only the vision for redevelopment but also a comprehensive timeline,'' Mr. Pataki said at the time. ''It's an ambitious plan for swift action that leaves no room for error or delay.''
 Officials no longer put any stock in a 2008 completion date. Indeed, under the current schedule, Larry A. Silverstein, the developer who controls the lease at the trade center, would not finish building and leasing the tower until the end of 2011. 
 But the Freedom Tower and the decisions made in 2003 loom large today over the very public slugfest involving Mr. Silverstein, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the land, over what is going to be built, who is going to build it and when. 
 The governor, who is considering a presidential run, has insisted on an April groundbreaking for the Freedom Tower, which is sure to attract national attention.
 But many urban planners, downtown real estate executives and civic leaders contend that the $2.3 billion, 2.6 million square foot Freedom Tower is planned for the wrong place, too big and would be unlikely to attract tenants other than government agencies, though few are willing to say so publicly for fear of offending the governor. 
 There are even suggestions that Mr. Silverstein may offer to return the Freedom Tower site to the Port Authority as part of a restructuring of his lease at ground zero, according to people involved in negotiations on the site's future. Mr. Pataki, for his part, has said Mr. Silverstein must have resolved his disagreements with the Port Authority by March 14 or face losing hundreds of millions of dollars in government subsidies. 
 ''It's really important that we accelerate development on the entire site,'' said Kathryn Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City. ''Many people say the Freedom Tower is not a viable economic proposition even with Liberty Bonds and insurance money. It stands in the way of the development of the balance of the site, which would otherwise be quite feasible.''
 John Cahill, the governor's chief of staff who oversees downtown rebuilding, counters that the Freedom Tower is infused with meaning far beyond an ordinary real estate project. Besides, he said, alternative ground zero building sites would not be ready for 18 months to two years.
 ''The Freedom Tower will serve as a testament to our resiliency as a people, a city and a country in the wake of the horrific attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,'' Mr. Cahill said. ''The 1,776-foot tower will reclaim our city's skyline and is emblematic of the enduring spirit of New Yorkers and our nation.''
 Mr. Bloomberg and Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the authority, have publicly supported the governor's push for the Freedom Tower. But they have also called for a restructuring of Mr. Silverstein's lease and a viable financial plan that would allow construction to move more quickly.
 ''Silverstein would run out of money in about four years and we would be left with a half-built project and a construction site for the foreseeable future,'' Mr. Bloomberg said on Wednesday. ''The way you solve that problem is you have multiple developers doing multiple kind of buildings simultaneously.''
 Mr. Coscia has proposed that Mr. Silverstein yield two building sites on Church Street and a major portion of the trade center property in return for a substantial reduction in his annual rent of $140 million. They say that it would cost more than $7 billion to build a total of five towers at ground zero, but Mr. Silverstein would have only $2.9 billion of insurance money available.
 ''It's clear that if you don't go ahead now with the Freedom Tower, you'll have no construction on the site for a year and half,'' said Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff. ''That's not acceptable. The solution we proposed will enable us to get all four buildings plus the retail up, and hopefully, occupied by late 2011.'' 
 Under the proposal, Mr. Silverstein would proceed with the Freedom Tower and a second building, while the Port Authority would become the anchor tenant for a third tower on Church Street, build a retail mall, and sell the fourth site to a developer for a hotel, office space, and according to the mayor, about 700 apartments.
 In contrast, the architect Daniel Libeskind's original plan for the trade center was to build the memorial to the victims of Sept. 11 first, the Church Street towers second and what became known as the Freedom Tower in the third phase. But the governor put the tower in first place. Knowing that he had few friends at City Hall or at the authority, Mr. Silverstein followed Mr. Pataki's lead and abandoned his effort to move the Freedom Tower from the northwest corner to what the developer thought was a more logical spot on Church Street, next to the new transit center.
 ''He had one ally, the governor, and the governor wanted him to build the Freedom Tower first,'' Kevin M. Rampe, a former senior redevelopment official appointed by the governor, said of Mr. Silverstein.
 In any event, Mr. Bloomberg has repeatedly called on Mr. Silverstein to put aside his desire ''to maximize the profits of his investment'' and do the right thing for the city.
 A City Hall analysis of ground zero says that Mr. Silverstein and his investors took back most, if not all, of the $137 million he and his investors put into his 2001 leasing deal with the authority. Mr. Silverstein has also proposed that he get a 5 percent development fee, which could add more than $100 million to the cost of the Freedom Tower.
 Mr. Silverstein has responded angrily to the mayor, saying that the attacks on him ''hurt all of downtown,'' by increasing the uncertainty over ground zero and scaring away potential tenants. As the feud escalated, Mr. Silverstein borrowed a phrase from the cold war, saying that the proposal that he give back the two sites best suited for corporate tenants amounted to ''Soviet-style confiscation.''
 The developer has argued that the Port Authority should move to the Freedom Tower, along with other state and city agencies.
 ''We believe the two towers on Church Street are perfect for large, private-sector employers such as the financial institutions that are key to the city's economic future,'' said Janno N. Lieber, senior vice president of Silverstein Properties.
 Mr. Silverstein says that he has the insurance money and is in the best position to build the first four towers with a combination of cash and Liberty Bonds.
 But there is a clear sense at the Port Authority and elsewhere that Mr. Silverstein cannot do everything, no matter what he claims.
 ''There's a feeling by many commissioners at the port that he will run out of money and be unable to build it all,'' said Charles A. Gargano, the state's top economic development official and vice chairman of the authority. ''The port is willing to work with the Silverstein group to complete the development of the site in an expeditious way.''
 Although the talks among Mr. Silverstein, Mr. Cahill and the authority are being conducted in secret, officials who have been briefed on the negotiations say that there has been informal discussion in the last week about Mr. Silverstein ceding the Freedom Tower to the authority. But they also say that the authority would be unlikely to take on that project unless Mr. Silverstein also agreed that the Port Authority would get most of the insurance money, as well as control of the two Church Street sites.
 Officials say the negotiations are likely to go right up until the March 14 deadline imposed by Mr. Pataki. Mayor Bloomberg, not directly involved in the talks, has sought to use his influence to strengthen the authority's negotiating position.
 But his repeated suggestions that residential development could take place at ground zero has driven some downtown business and real estate executives to support Mr. Silverstein. They argue that there are no other sites for office towers left downtown and fear that the mayor is more concerned with promoting commercial development on the recently rezoned Far West Side.
 At the same time, residents and local politicians demonstrated Friday against the mayor's recent decision to eliminate funding for two schools that would serve Lower Manhattan's growing residential population.
 Still, there is a widespread feeling that it is time for change in the plans for downtown.
 ''The governor's insistence on this tower as a political symbol three years ago has tied the site up in knots,'' said David Dyssegaard Kallick, a senior fellow at the Fiscal Policy Institute. ''But renegotiating the lease with Silverstein is the right thing to do. We need to get the phasing and the order of the buildings right so that we can create the kind of vibrant commercial and residential district that Lower Manhattan is and needs to be.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%) Area Planning and Renewal; Freedom Tower (NYC); Building (Construction); Renting and Leasing; World Trade Center (NYC); Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (65%) Charles V Bagli; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Larry A Silverstein; Vincent M Mallozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



430 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rise for the Week, Despite Inflation Worry

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Despite worries about inflation that weighed on the stock market Friday, the three main market gauges rose for the week, buoyed by strong earnings reports and the possibility of a big utility merger. 
 On Friday, the market fell on a government report that producer prices rose 0.3 percent in January. Excluding food and transportation, prices rose 0.4 percent. Both measures were higher than expected by Wall Street.
 For most of the week, however, the market rose. Boston Scientific shares gained 11.8 percent for the week, on reports that the medical equipment company's chief financial officer had bought a large block of its shares. And KeySpan, the biggest gas utility in the Northeast, rose 11.6 percent. The company put itself up for sale, and was reported to have already been approached by two suitors, Consolidated Edison and National Grid.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 196.27 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 11,115.32. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 20.25 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 1,287.24. The Nasdaq composite rose 20.48 points, or 0.9 percent, to 2,282.36.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.54 percent, from 4.59 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.ExpediaNNM: EXPEThe online travel services company said its fourth-quarter earnings plunged 43 percent. The company said sales in the period rose 13 percent, to $494.7 million. Wall Street was expecting $505 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $20.12WEEK'S CHANGE: -17.00EST. '06 P/E: 15.49J. M. SmuckerNYSE: SJMThe maker of fruit spreads, juices, baking mixes and other products said that its fiscal third-quarter earnings fell 13 percent because of escalating energy costs and weak sales of cooking oil and baking products.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.25WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.41%EST. '06 P/E: 14.16AmerigroupNYSE: AGPThe provider of managed health care said fourth-quarter earnings tumbled 42 percent, to $12.9 million, as expenses rose 32 percent. The company also issued a 2006 forecast that was below Wall Street's targets.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $20.70WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.21%EST. '06 P/E: 18.70BrightpointNNM: CELLThe wireless device supplier said that it had reached an agreement with Motricity, a wireless content provider, to create a service for accessing, downloading and buying digital content for mobile devices.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.31WEEK'S CHANGE: +15.85%EST. '06 P/E: 36.41KeySpanNYSE: KSEThe provider of electricity and natural gas to customers in Long Island and New York City put itself up for sale. The company has attracted offers of more than $6.5 billion, according to people involved in the process.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $40.41WEEK'S CHANGE: +12.34%EST. '06 P/E: 16.92RadioShackNYSE: RSHThe electronics retailer said its fourth-quarter earnings plummeted 62 percent on a large inventory writedown and weak wireless sales. The company announced plans to close as many as 700 stores.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.08WEEK'S CHANGE: -11.79%EST. '06 P/E: 11.30Hewlett-PackardNYSE: HPQThe computer and printer maker reported a 30 percent jump in profit and a 6 percent increase in sales for its first quarter, in a sign that the company is continuing its turnaround under Mark V. Hurd, its chief executive.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $34.07WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.12%EST. '06 P/E: 17.60LeapFrog EnterprisesNYSE: LFThe educational toy company said that it had swung to a fourth-quarter profit, as lower costs offset weak sales. It also said that its president, Jerome J. Perez, had resigned as part of a shuffling of executive positions.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $11.35WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.56%EST. '06 P/E: 27.89(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); MERGERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (57%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (57%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%); BSX (NYSE) (57%); NGG (NYSE) (57%); NG (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (57%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (54%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



431 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Economists Worry About The Rent, Too

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE Greenspan Federal Reserve did the heavy lifting, never missing a chance in its last 14 interest-rate-setting meetings to execute a quarter-point upward nudge. With the new-model Fed under Ben S. Bernanke widely viewed as planning another tweak or two, one market strategist said he would be fine-tuning the way he views an important piece of economic data this week. 
 Ed Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Oak Associates, says he expects a core consumer inflation rate of 0.2 percent for January. That would be the same figure as in the preceding three months and the number forecast in a Bloomberg News poll of economists. The government report is to be released Wednesday.
The core Consumer Price Index excludes the volatile components of food and energy. When those are tossed back into the mix, the Bloomberg poll sees a gain of 0.5 percent.
 The C.P.I. component that Mr. Yardeni will examine especially closely covers rent and comprises about one-fourth of the basket of goods and services tracked in the report. Rent is important, he said, because of its close association with wages.
 ''I'm going to be most interested in the C.P.I. for the next several months,'' he said. ''The core inflation rate has been very well behaved for the last couple of years, despite soaring energy prices.''
 If there is to be a display of bad manners in the index, it could be heralded by an increase in the rent portion. Wages have been climbing, Mr. Yardeni pointed out, and when that has occurred in the past, higher rents have often followed.
 ''Historically there has been a good correlation between wage inflation and rents,'' he said. ''If people are paid more, landlords figure it out and charge more for rent.''
 With the Fed paying close attention to economic data as it decides how many more rate increases may be needed, any increase in the C.P.I.'s rent component would be particularly unwelcome now, Mr. Yardeni said.
 ''If that historical correlation works again, the core inflation rate is going to be back on the Fed's radar screen as a reason to be tightening,'' he warned. ''Any time core inflation picks up it will keep Bernanke and the Fed on a tightening path.''

DATA WATCH -- The Bloomberg poll estimates that the index of leading indicators, due on Tuesday, will show a climb of 0.6 percent for January after a gain of 0.1 percent in December.
 The report on Friday on January orders for durable goods is expected to show a 2 percent decline, according to the poll. Mr. Yardeni said the dip would be merely a respite in spending after three consecutive months of gains.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks monthly change in Consumer Price Index from 2005 through estimated 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (65%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%) Ben S Bernanke; Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



432 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: A Hyped Budget Shortfall? Wouldn't Be the First Time

BYLINE: By Laura Mansnerus. 
Laura Mansnerus reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

 BODY:
There's no telling how much money the state of New Jersey does not have. In December, Gov. Jon S. Corzine said the shortfall for the next budget was probably close to $6 billion. No, no, former Gov. Richard J. Codey said last week, it is below $3 billion. 
 All right, Mr. Corzine said a few days later, it's $4 billion or $4.5 billion. But for many years, he said, ''we have not made good decisions'' on state spending. 
Could the new governor be exaggerating the gravity of the situation he has inherited? ''Well, you'd do the same thing,'' Mr. Codey said in an interview, ''wouldn't you?''
 But this is not just a disagreement about how much is whose fault. If Mr. Corzine is following a common script by putting out dire numbers, he is preparing everyone for something bad. 
 That something, as even Mr. Corzine already acknowledges, is higher taxes. 
 ''Once you start conditioning people that we have this deficit, you're softening them up for tax increases,'' said Joseph R. Malone, the ranking Republican on the Assembly Budget Committee. ''What is the absolute drop-dead budget deficit? I don't know. I think it's nowhere near where they say it is. I just hope they don't create this panic situation, like McGreevey did.''
 Indeed, Gov. James E. McGreevey poor-mouthed extravagantly every year, then closed the budget gap with tax increases -- $1 billion a year from raising the corporate business tax, $800 million from increasing the top rate on high-income taxpayers, hundreds of millions more from here and there. And in the end, after facing this sad necessity, every year there was suddenly a few billion extra to spend. 
 Mr. Corzine's arithmetic would seem to require tax increases just to finance an austerity budget, or anything close to the $28.3 billion budget for the year that started last July 1. As his spokesman, Anthony Coley, said about the shortfall, ''even if it's $4 billion, $4 billion is a lot of money.''
 And any scenario that finds it by ''scrubbing the budget,'' in the governor's well-worn phrase, and ''growing the economy,'' as he also promises, would rank with the fishes-and-loaves story. 
 But Mr. Corzine is not talking about austerity -- at least not as most people understand the word; he has spending plans of McGreeveyesque proportions. 
 Most of the difference between Mr. Corzine's and Mr. Codey's numbers is new spending that the governor has proposed: A big, unspecified infusion for the state's pension fund and about $550 million for higher property tax rebates, which Mr. Corzine promised in his campaign. 
 In addition, he proposes to rescue the Transportation Trust Fund and the school construction program. The state's unemployment insurance fund has been drained of reserves and then some. Expenses beyond the state's control, like Medicaid and debt payments, are constantly rising.
 The governor has not answered questions about how he will finance all this, beyond surmising that the state will need some help on ''the revenue side.'' 
 After Mr. Corzine offered his most recent projection on a radio call-in show on Wednesday evening, Mr. Coley directed questions to Tom Vincz, the spokesman for the state treasurer, Bradley I. Abelow. 
 All Mr. Vincz would say was, ''The budget priorities and revenues will be made clear when the governor delivers his budget on March 21.'' 
 In the meantime, sound pessimistic -- better yet -- absolutely desperate. Take the current budget gap, roll in some more spending, and call it a $6 billion hole, or a $4.5 billion hole. Later, a former Wall Street chief executive will be credited with taming enormous deficits.
 The Legislature's main noodge on the fiscal prudence front, Senate Minority Leader Leonard Lance, has a different accounting. The increased property tax rebates ''certainly can't be considered part of the deficit,'' Mr. Lance said. ''That's just new spending.'' 
 It is hard to quarrel with numbers that are just a stab at reality. Mr. Codey uses this analogy: When you make financial disclosures, you use one set of figures if you are trying to get a loan for your company and another set on an application for financial aid for your son's college tuition. Neither set is really wrong. 
 But it is more than hard to imagine a budget that does not propose new taxes.
 ''I don't know how he does it,'' Mr. Malone said the other day, after a meeting with Mr. Abelow. ''I said, 'You must have some miracle up your sleeve.' I said, 'I can't wait to see the budget.' ''
 ''I'm not even being facetious,'' he added. ''I can't wait to see it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); TAX RELIEF (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Richard J Codey; Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



433 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: New Hope for Old Suburbs

 BODY:
Remember these words: ''First Suburbs.'' The term refers to places known variously as ''inner-ring'' suburbs or pioneer suburbs or Cheever country or Levittown or places where ideals of white picket-fence perfection coexist with madness and alienation and dysfunction and despair. Around here, we know them as Westchester and Nassau, but they exist across the country, on the outskirts of cities that saw an exodus of young families in boom years after World War II. 
 There has never been a widely understood label to unite these places in the popular imagination, but maybe ''First Suburbs'' will stick. We hope so: It is concise, precise and promises to help focus people's thinking on a vital part of America that has been stereotyped and mocked (see above) as much as it has been idealized. More urgently -- as a matter of government policy -- it has been ignored.
That is a conclusion of a study released last week by the Brookings Institution, ''One-Fifth of America: A Comprehensive Guide to America's First Suburbs'' (see www.brookings.org), which is part of a growing body of research drawing attention to the birthplace of the Baby Boom. The nation's oldest suburbs are now home to 52 million Americans, who have grown older along with their houses and roads and other increasingly creaky bits of infrastructure. Among the traditional zones of suburban affluence and comfort, there are intense pockets of poverty and blight and vast numbers of new immigrants. The old perception of the suburbs and the new reality are diverging radically.
 Scholars and astute politicians, including Senator Hillary Clinton of Chappaqua and Thomas Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, have recognized that their turf exists in a policy blind spot, between the revitalized cities and the newly booming, far-flung exurbs. Mrs. Clinton and Representative Peter King have introduced a bill seeking $250 million to promote economic development in the first suburbs, which do not, as a rule, qualify for existing federal programs.
 Mr. Suozzi is the prophet of what he calls ''New Suburbia,'' which adds high-density development and mass transit in select places to the traditional mix of single-family homes, lawns and open space. Nassau has no place left to sprawl, Mr. Suozzi says, so smartly placed growth in neglected downtowns and brownfields will help spur the economy, give young people and the elderly a place to live, and keep the whole suburban mechanism from breaking down into a useless mass of clogged roads and crushing taxes.
 No one who lives here needs to be told that today's suburban problems are not ones that New Rochelle's Rob and Laura Petrie would recognize. The tensions in Mamaroneck and elsewhere over immigrant day laborers, for example, concerns about growth and sprawl along the Hudson, and the challenges posed by a fragile elderly population are recent additions to the usual fretting about rising taxes and home prices and kids nowadays.
 New investment will help, of course, as will greater cooperation among fragmented local governments. Collaborative planning by municipalities in places like Arlington, Va., has helped to upend the parochialism and blind attachment to home rule that often hinders solutions to regional problems. They have found strength in unity. Such unity starts with recognizing a shared identity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); SUBURBS (89%); LEGISLATION (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); FAMILY (76%); COUNTIES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); TRENDS (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); WORLD WAR II (55%) Suburbs; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Economic Conditions and Trends; Suburbs

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%) Brookings Institution

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PETER T KING (71%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Peter (Rep) King; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; Nassau County (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



434 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Children, The Littlest Politicians 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
IT was not so long ago that men and women voted along similar lines. Both sexes went overwhelmingly for Richard Nixon in 1972 and narrowly for Jimmy Carter in 1976.
 Today, though, the gender gap -- that men lean right and women lean left -- has become a political truism, and a series of new studies suggests that gender plays an even bigger role in politics than many believed. Having a son tends to make parents more conservative, it appears, while a daughter makes them more liberal. The parental has become the political.
''Political feelings are much less independently chosen than people realize,'' said Andrew Oswald, an economist at the University of Warwick in Britain. ''Children mold their parents.'' 
 So far, most of the work has examined Europe. Polling data in the United States hasn't received the same academic scrutiny, but it points in similar directions.
 In Germany, two-thirds of people who switched their political affiliation in the year after having a son moved to the more conservative party. The ratio was flipped for those who had a daughter.
 In Britain, the two left of center parties, Labor and the Liberal Democrats, do much better -- 11 percentage points -- among voters with three girls and no boys than among voters with three boys and no girls. 
 What might this mean for the United States? These findings are consistent with a narrow but striking study by Ebonya Washington, a Yale economist. She found that men in Congress with daughters vote for abortion rights more often than those without daughters. But abortion is not a clear gender-gap issue. Polls show that more women oppose abortion than men. 
 Both researchers and political professionals say that economics rather than the abortion issue is a more likely explanation for any gap between the parents of girls and the parents of boys. 
 In small ways, having a daughter seems to make men think a little bit more like women when it comes to economic considerations like health care -- and to make women focus even more on those issues. Democrats pushed for the Family and Medical Leave Act over Republican objections, for example, and more voters agree with Democratic positions on health care. 
 ''You see a different set of experiences'' when you have a daughter, said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster. ''You tend to see more of a role for government and more of a need for a safety net.''
 But the findings cut both ways. Boys aren't neutral. They seem to make some parents more conservative. In the United States, just 31 percent of parents with only boys call themselves Democrats, while 37 percent with only girls do, according to the General Social Survey, a large poll.
 One reason, Mr. Oswald said, might be that men work longer hours and earn more money than women, giving the parents of boys reason to want lower taxes. Men also tend to prefer that individuals make decisions, a view that fits with Republican beliefs, while women prefer community solutions. 
 Matthew Dowd, a Republican strategist, adds another possibility: Many voters are influenced by their friends. Mr. Dowd speculates, for example, that parents of boys spend more time fishing and end up surrounded by Republicans. 
 Mr. Oswald's work, which was inspired by Ms. Washington's abortion study, is part of a surge of academic interest in children and gender. 
 The subject has the advantage of avoiding a common problem in social science: the blurry line between correlation and causation. Depressed people drink a lot, for instance. But are they depressed because they drink, or do they drink because they are depressed? Or do they have genetic disposition to both depression and drinking? 
 On the other hand, there is no way that voting for a Democrat makes someone more likely to bear a daughter. 
 ''It's so scientifically attractive,'' Mr. Oswald said, ''because it's out of the parents' control -- whether they have a boy or a girl.''
 Other research along these lines has found that parents with girls are slightly more likely to get divorced and that young boys get more parental attention, because fathers spend more time with them.
 Mr. Oswald's research, which he did with Nattavudh Powdthavee, has yet to be published in a journal, and no one seems to have attempted a similar study in this country. But it has already become a topic of discussion at universities in Europe and this country. 
 ''I think it passes the smell test,'' said Shelly Lundberg, director of the Center for Research on Families at the University of Washington.
 The problem for politicians is figuring out what to do with it. Conservatives could try to push policies aimed at helping girls, and liberals could do the same with boys. But it's probably not that simple. And neither side, so far, has figured out a way to produce more babies of the sex that might help them at the ballot box.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawing by Jeanne Verdoux)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); MEN (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); ABORTION (86%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); FAMILY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PARENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (70%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (60%) United States Politics and Government; Children and Youth; Men; Women

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (73%); RICHARD NIXON (73%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



435 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Chirac Headed for India as France Aims to Re-Energize Relations 

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS; Amelia Gentleman contributed reporting from New Delhi for this article, and Katrin Bennhold from Paris.; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
President Jacques Chirac of France is expected to arrive in India on Sunday for a visit aimed at reinvigorating relations with India, a regional power increasingly enamored of the United States at the expense of Europe. 
 Indian officials have complained that Europe has been slow to recast India as a major power, seeing it instead in purely commercial terms as a lesser China. At the same time, the United States and Japan, among others, have sent the message that they see India as a bulwark against China and that they need India at least as much as it needs them.
''France has to recognize that the center of gravity is shifting from the Atlantic Ocean to the Indian Ocean,'' Kamal Nath, the Indian commerce minister, said in a telephone interview. ''America was the quickest to see that India is the fastest-growing free-market economy in the world. Europe is now catching up.'' 
 In planning his trip, however, Mr. Chirac has ensured that the United States will be playing catch-up in at least one way: his delegation, including five cabinet ministers and 32 business and industrial leaders, will get here two weeks before a visit by President Bush. 
 Under Mr. Chirac, France has been a champion of improving ties between India and Europe, and it was an early backer of India's bid for a United Nations Security Council seat. And France has fostered a strategic relationship between the two nations since Mr. Chirac's first state visit to India in 1998.
 ''It was true a few years back that the French were a bit standoffish. Now it's changed completely,'' Dominique Girard, the French ambassador to India, said in an interview.
 Trade, as usual, is a driving concern in the relationship. France is looking to India as a potential export market to help its sluggish economy.
 No new megadeals are expected during Mr. Chirac's visit, but India's aggressive drive to expand its nuclear energy capacity and to enlarge its civilian airline fleet has opened doors. Accordingly, French industry leaders, including representatives of Airbus Industries and the nuclear producer Areva, are accompanying Mr. Chirac to lay the ground for future deals after the sale of 43 Airbuses and six submarines last September totaling about $5.3 billion.
 Such deals would greatly expand the scope of trade between the two countries, which is modest at the moment: France, for example, exports about twice as much to Iran as it does to India, according to the French Finance Ministry. Meanwhile, India is basking in new attention from the Bush administration, which last July proposed altering the international rules of proliferation to lend legitimacy to India's nuclear weapons program.
 The proposal, which France has since backed, is part of a broader American overture to India on military and commercial ties.
 But the nuclear deal is meeting opposition in Congress, which has given Mr. Chirac an opening to position France as a more reliable nuclear supplier to India. French officials have said Mr. Chirac is likely to pursue his own nuclear agreement this week. France and India are also expected to sign a deal to broaden joint military exercises and training.
 Yet, on balance, many here feel slighted by Europe, a feeling enhanced when France sent the Clemenceau, an asbestos-laden French aircraft carrier, to India for scrapping, stirring anger over the image of a rich nation exporting its waste to a poorer one. Mr. Chirac recalled the carrier to France this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (86%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%) United States International Relations; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (63%); AREVA SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: AREVA (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (63%); NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (52%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (52%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Anand Giridharadas; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (58%) INDIA (99%); FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) India; France; China; Europe; Japan; India

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



436 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Coming Soon, 9 Million Stories in the Crowded City

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
With higher birth rates among Hispanic and Asian New Yorkers, immigrants continuing to gravitate to New York City and a housing boom transforming all five boroughs, the city is struggling to cope with a phenomenon that few other cities in the Northeast or Midwest now face: a growing population. It is expected to pass nine million by 2020.
 New York might need an extra million or so slices of cake for its 400th birthday party in 2025.
Estimated today at a record 8.2 million, the population is expected to reach nearly 9.4 million in 2025. But that projected growth poses potential problems that New York is just starting to grapple with: ensuring that there are enough places in which to live, work, attend school and play and that transportation and energy are adequate. 
 Elaborating on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's disclosure last month that city planners were drafting a strategy to cope with this expected growth, Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, said the city could accommodate a million additional people or more, but only if it began planning for their needs now. 
 ''We have the capacity through rezoning and underutilized land to go well over that number,'' he said. ''But you cannot simply divorce the issue of growth from the infrastructure required to support it. It opens up great opportunities only if the growth is smart, if we have the things that make cities worth living in.'' 
 Mr. Doctoroff said the strategy would explore opportunities for growth both citywide and in 188 individual neighborhoods. It would determine how land use regulations and other constraints might be altered to create sufficient housing, schools, subway routes and parks, preserve factory jobs and identify sites for less desirable but necessary structures, including power plants. 
 Last month, the New York Building Congress, a trade group, estimated that proposed development, including the World Trade Center site and the Hudson Yards in Manhattan and the Atlantic Terminal area in Brooklyn, would generate a 21 percent increase in jobs by 2025. That, the group said, would require new sources of electricity. 
 In his State of the City address last month, Mr. Bloomberg said that he would present a ''strategic land use plan'' in April. That will explore the potential for growth, identify the constraints and recommend how to provide the housing, transportation, energy and other public works, including parks, to accommodate a larger population, the mayor said. 
 ''Making sure that every community shares in the New York we are building also requires us to look to the future and plan for the future in ways we haven't dared in decades,'' the mayor said. 
 Among the goals of the plan, Mr. Doctoroff said, are to produce greater geographic diversity -- more jobs in Downtown Brooklyn, Flushing and Jamaica in Queens, the South Bronx, Harlem and the Far West Side -- and to preserve manufacturing jobs. 
 Except for the clothing industry, manufacturing jobs have not decreased year to year for the first time since World War II.
 City officials rarely engage in long-range planning, particularly for growth. A short-lived proposal for ''planned shrinkage'' was advanced in the mid-1970's, sandwiched between a comprehensive statement of urban challenges and potential solutions in 1969 and a candid but still largely optimistic assessment in 1987. 
 ''This will be different,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''Much more practical.''
 New York has been the most populous American city since the first census in 1790. Almost steadily since the 1940's, more people have been leaving the city for other parts of the country than have arrived here from other areas of the nation. 
 Growth in the 1980's and especially the 1990's has been largely driven by immigration. Foreigners are expected to account for much of the growth in the next two decades, growth that, according to the forecasts, would keep New York in first place among the nation's cities and maintain the New York metropolitan region either as the largest or, at least, tied with Los Angeles. 
 One recent study, by Regina Armstrong of Urbanomics, a consultant to the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, an intergovernmental planning group, also projects that by 2025, the Bronx will be home to 1.5 million people and Brooklyn to 2.8 million -- surpassing their mid-20th century peaks.
 Queens will have 2.8 million people, the study says, and Staten Island nearly 600,000 -- records for both boroughs. Manhattan, with 1.7 million, will still be short of the more than two million people who lived there early in the last century, many in densely packed tenements. Other projections computed by state demographers suggest that by 2020, Queens will overtake Brooklyn as the most populous borough. 
 The Urbanomics projections say that among non-Hispanic whites, births will again outnumber deaths beginning after 2010 and that their net migration from the city will peak by 2015 and that the number of black residents will begin to decline in 2015. They also say that after 2010 more Hispanic people will be leaving New York than arriving but that their birthrates will remain high, and that the number from Asia will continue to increase. After 2025, the population is projected to then expand more slowly, to nearly 9.5 million in 2030, for a 16 percent increase since 2005. 
 Compared to the last five years, according to the projections, between 2025 and 2030 among Asians the total of births over deaths will more than double, and the net migration -- people arriving versus leaving -- will more than triple. 
 Population projections are notoriously subject to and variables -- no one can predict the impact of terrorism, a possible resurgence in crime, medical advances or epidemics, the global economy or the effects of technological changes on jobs. 
 Historically, those predictions tend to have overestimated growth, inspired, in part, by the optimism of the moment or to justify the ambitious agendas of developers and utility executives.
 ''The overall driving concept is that a favorable employment situation in the New York region will attract an increase in population,'' said Prof. Joel E. Cohen, who heads the Laboratory of Populations at the Rockefeller University. 
 ''I am not saying these projections are better or worse than lots of local area projections. They just should be taken with large grains of salt. Historical analyses of how projections made in the past have done when the future came around have shown much larger errors than anticipated by the people who made the projections.''
 The latest official census figures actually showed a slight decline in New York State's population. But, on the basis of housing construction, the city has successfully challenged recent estimates, and the Census Bureau has accepted the city's figure of 8,168,338 as of 2004. New census estimates are due out next month. 
 While some demographers question how long growth will continue, state and city officials say they generally agree with the overall projections. 
 ''We're in the same ballpark,'' said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the Department of City Planning's population division.
 Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, said that with nearby suburbs nearly saturated, the city was no longer at as much of a competitive disadvantage. Still, he said, ''New York's got to find a place to put another 1.2 to 1.5 million New Yorkers,'' adding, ''One way to keep these forecasts from happening is to make it prohibitively expensive to live and work here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, at the South Street Seaport. He says New York can accommodate a million additional people or more, but only if the city begins planning for them now. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 36)
(Photo by James Bronzan/The New York Times
photographs by Don Hogan Charles [top], Richard Perry [Bronx], Robert Caplin [Brooklyn], and Barton Silverman [Queens]/The New York Times
Mary DiBiase Blaich for the New York Times [Staten Island]
 Seth Wenig/Reuters [Manhattan])(pg. 33)Chart: ''Population Boom''Projected change in each borough.Bronx: 16%2025: 1,546,8002000: 1,332,700Brooklyn: 12%2025: 2,764,3002000: 2,465,300Manhattan: 10%2025: 1,694,2002000: 1,537,200Queens: 24%2025: 2,756,3002000: 2,229,400Staten Island: 33%2025: 591,0002000: 443,700Chart: ''Citywide Changes''The city's population is projected to reach nearly 9.4 million by 2025.Graph tracks total New York City population from 1970 through 2025.The various racial and ethnic groups will contribute to that growth very differently.PROJECTED CHANGE IN POPULATION, 2000 to 2025White: -880,828Black: +24,407Asian: +1,327,052Hispanic: +577,355The city's economic makeup is also projected to change, becoming generally wealthier.HOUSEHOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION, IN 1999 DOLLARS2000Less than $50,000: 59%$50,000 to $99,999: 27$100,000 and more: 142025Less than $50,000: 47%$50,000 to $99,999: 17$100,000 and more: 36(Source by Urbanomics)(pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ZONING (78%); TRENDS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); REFUGEES (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%) Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Asian-Americans; Population; Immigration and Refugees; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) Sam Roberts; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006



437 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON TONIGHT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 385 words

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:

8 P.M. (Nickelodeon) SPONGEBOB SQUAREPANTS: LOST IN TIME -- Bob (above) and his pal Patrick go to a medieval theme restaurant and accidentally time-travel back to the days of knights and dragons. (''They sure take their role-playing seriously 
 around here,'' Bob says at first.) They are accused of witchcraft, insult the king and set out to save a princess held captive by a tiny wizard. There is always a chance that Bikini Bottom humor may not play in Camelot.

8 P.M. (NBC) 2006 OLYMPIC WINTER GAMES -- Tonight's events, tape-delayed from Turin, Italy, are figure skating (ice-dancing
 final), Alpine skiing (men's giant slalom), freestyle skiing (men's aerials) and ski jumping (team).

8 P.M. (Fox) HOUSE -- A heroin-addicted supermodel and a man with so much estrogen he suffers from morning sickness are the patients of the week.

8 P.M. (TCM) ONE HUNDRED MEN AND A GIRL -- (1937). Deanna Durbin stars in this cheery Depression-era musical about a
 symphony made up of down-and-out unemployed musicians and the helpful teenage girl determined to talk Leopold Stokowski
 (playing himself) into conducting it.

9 P.M. (History) DIGGING FOR THE TRUTH -- The archaeology hunk Josh Bernstein (right) goes looking for the true story of
 Roanoke Island, the socalled lost colony, along the Outer Banks of North Carolina. It was part of Virginia when the first English
 settlers arrived in 1585. There are many theories as to exactly what happened to them. The word ''Croatoan,'' carved on a tree, has long been considered the most important clue.

9 P.M. (Fox) 24 -- ''Day 5: 3 P.M.-4 P.M.'' A terrorist billionaire (played by Julian Sands) scares everybody.

9:30 P.M. (HGTV) HOUSE HUNTERS INTERNATIONAL -- Series premiere. This new real estate reality series looks at the househunting process, with one extra complication: the prospective buyers are looking abroad.

10 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELOR: PARIS -- Now they can speak their minds. Dr. Travis Storkcan only hope that the old adage about hell and a woman scorned doesn't apply to 21st-century romance. Because now that he has narrowed his choices down to two women (Moana and Sarah S.), all the ''bachelorettes'' he rejected earlier in the season get together and reveal what they
 really think about Travis (above, with a few of the women). And one another. ANITA GATES

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Nickelodeon)
(Photo by JWM Productions)
 (Photo by Craig Sjodin/ABC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); WINTER OLYMPICS (75%); ICE SKATING (75%); CELEBRITIES (72%); WITCHCRAFT (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); OLYMPICS (70%); ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); MUSIC (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (53%); HEROIN (53%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (68%); TURIN, ITALY (57%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%); VIRGINIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (74%); ITALY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



438 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 262 words

 BODY:

PRESIDENTIAL PAUSE -- Financial markets are closed today in observance of Washington's Birthday.

TAX TROUBLE -- Irwin Schiff, right, whose message that income taxes are voluntary brought him a certain level of fame but got him in trouble with the Internal Revenue Service, will be sentenced in Las Vegas on Friday. He and an associate were found guilty last October of charges including tax evasion and tax fraud. The government says Mr. Schiff helped thousands of Americans evade taxes. 


BLACK FRIDAY -- A federal judge in Virginia will hold a hearing Friday on a request by the patent-holding firm NTP for an injunction that would shut down service to Research In Motion's BlackBerry devices in the United States. NTP says the device infringes its patents. A RIM executive said last week that the two sides were still communicating.

MORE MEGAPIXELS -- The annual conference and trade show of the Photo Marketing Association International, which starts Sunday in Orlando, Fla., is the place for camera makers to unveil their latest digital wares.

TRACKING PRICES -- In economic news, the headline report will be the consumer price index on Wednesday. Economists surveyed by Reuters expect the index to be up 0.5 percent. Coming tomorrow will be the leading economic indicators and the minutes of the Federal Open Markets Committee meeting held Jan. 31, and on Friday, orders for durable goods.

PROFIT WATCH -- Among major corporate earnings reports, Federated Department Stores, Home Depot, Wal-Mart and US Airways report tomorrow, Sprint Nextel on Wednesday and CBS on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); VERDICTS (77%); PATENTS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (72%); JUDGES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (71%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (70%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); RETAILERS (66%); DURABLE GOODS (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (65%); HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); TRADE SHOWS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (66%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); MACY'S INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); PHOTO MARKETING ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONAL (56%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (66%); RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (56%); M (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



439 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Cold and Lonely Side of Summer's Playland; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Coney Island Awaits Its Warm Flush, but for Now Fun Is Out of Town 

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
She danced rather well for someone her age, never mind the faint cracks on her cheeks or the vacant look in her eyes. Her hips swayed stiffly, the tassels on her vest moving in rhythm.
 Then Benjamin Harrison pulled the plug, and she went dead.
''They debuted her at the 1935 Danbury State Fair, on the Barnum Pavilion,'' he said, patting the nameless motorized mannequin on the shoulder. By spring, she will be the featured tenant in a new window display, ''something inexpensive for people to see on the strip'' when they wander down this alley off Coney Island's Boardwalk, Mr. Harrison said. He heaved a heavy plastic sheet over the display. Spring is a long way off, and Coney Island is a cold and damp place in the winter. 
 Besides, no one else is around to watch. Like other beach towns but unlike just about any other neighborhood in the five boroughs, Coney Island is really alive only when the weather is warm. Come summer, crowds will overwhelm the streets, and visitors will be marching down Surf Avenue wearing suntan lotion and looking for cotton candy. But at this time of year, the tourists mostly stay home, and large swaths of the area struggle for life. 
 ''Summertime's when the action is,'' groused Frank Johnson, 80 and a former Cyclone operator, dejectedly holding court at a convenience store on Surf. 
 On Stillwell Avenue, bumper cars were arranged in neat rows, unridden. Near the Boardwalk, skeletal plastic frames and a few shreds of tarp were all that remained of the tents and tables that sell toys and trinkets during the summer. The crack of baseball bats in the cages is months away, and a ghostly whistle -- the wind rushing through the trusses and cables of Deno's Wonder Wheel a block away -- seemed to emanate from everywhere at once. A man bundled against the cold stabbed a wire coat hanger into the guts of the soda machines lining the street, hoping to pry change loose.
 At least there was plenty of parking.
 ''Winter is dead,'' said Sabir Quassimi, 37, manager of the Shore Hotel just off Surf, leaning out a second-floor window. The welcome sign flapped loudly in the wind. The hotel was less than half occupied. ''No people are coming to the water. No one comes.''
 Surf Avenue, which runs through most of Coney Island a block from the Boardwalk, showed it. The storefronts built into the renovated $240 million subway terminal at the corner of Surf and Stillwell were papered over. Most of the rest of the stores on Surf were closed or shuttered. On the Boardwalk, some restaurants, like the Ocean Grill House or Gregory and Paul's, will open up on a warm Saturday. But of the area's main attractions, only three are reliably open during the off-season: the New York Aquarium, Nathan's hot dogs, and -- on weekends -- the Coney Island USA museum.
 Most ride operators ''work seven days a week, as much as 12 hours a day'' in the summer, said Dick Zigun, who runs the museum. (The building lacks heat, and he keeps warm playing checkers near a wood-burning stove, he said.) Some operators make enough to take the winter off and go to Florida, he said, but most struggle to get by. ''Everyone who is in the cast of the sideshows is collecting unemployment right now,'' he added.
 Down the block at Nathan's, the storm shutters were locked down against the wind, and the courtyard tables were bare. Inside, a cook listlessly sprinkled salt on a fresh batch of fries as a family of tourists gazed sourly at the prices. One man tipped over his 24-ounce beer, frowned at the fizzy pool accumulating under his chair, then shrugged and ate his chili dog.
 ''It's not what it was. It's part of a conglomerate now. It's like a McDonald's,'' said Stanley Fox, 61, standing outside. ''But they have good chicken noodle soup.'' 
 Mr. Fox's family used to own penny arcades here and now sells coin-operated games. He came down to the Boardwalk to show an old Skee-Ball machine to Josh Goldberg, 19, a New York University student who wanted to buy it for his father, who lives in Stamford, Conn. They walked down a side alley, ignoring the growling Rottweilers lurking behind the fence at Deno's, and into an unmarked warehouse, where a row of Skee-Ball machines awaited.
 ''This is where my parents had their second date,'' Mr. Goldberg said, after tossing a few balls at the target rings. ''Basically, my dad played like 100 games of Skee-Ball. So I had to get one for him.'' The price: $206. 
 Mr. Fox, himself a Coney Island local, decided to visit the Major Prime Meat Market, run by his friend Jimmy Prince. The store is on Mermaid Avenue, the neighborhood's main drag in wintertime. Year-rounders buy groceries there or go for Chinese. Mr. Prince, who is 80, is the sort of guy everyone calls Jimmy, even the folks he has a few decades on. He started at Major Prime as a delivery boy in 1949 and now owns the place, keeping sawdust on the floor and a large band saw against the wall for cutting beef carcasses. 
 ''Business is about the same. They just buy different things,'' said Mr. Prince, who wore a purple shirt and paisley tie under his apron. ''It goes from barbecuing to steaks, soups, and roasts,'' he said. Out with the hamburgers and hot dogs, in other words, and in with the shoulder and neck cuts.
 Mr. Prince is a longtime booster of development in Coney Island; give him a few minutes and he will wax cheerfully about the prospects for better and newer rides, a museum, a cleaned-up Coney Island Creek fit for canoes, and the prospect of year-round crowds. ''Coney Island is a diamond; it just needs the right setting,'' he likes to say. 
 Conversation soon turned to a real estate developer, Joseph Sitt, another local and Coney Island booster. In recent years, Mr. Sitt's company, Thor Equities, has bought up $100 million worth of property along the Boardwalk. Sometime in the next decade, he hopes, his 12-acre patch -- running from 12th Street to 21st -- will have a billion-dollar hotel and condominium complex, anchored by an indoor water park and maybe a House of Blues. 
 The idea, Mr. Sitt said over the telephone, was to make Coney Island a ''24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week attraction.'' The hotel would bring in guests during the winter, he said, and the glassed-in water park would provide a taste of the beach even when snow blanketed the ground outside.
 ''I utilize the Boardwalk all year round,'' said Mr. Sitt, who lives in the neighborhood and likes to go jogging by the sea early every morning. ''And it's a terrible, terrible shame that that place goes to sleep for six months a year.''
 Mr. Prince, among others, is not sure how he feels about Mr. Sitt's plans. Like a lot of Coney Islanders, he likes the idea of a hotel bringing in new and decent-paying jobs. (The health care industry is now the neighborhood's leading employer, anchored by Coney Island Hospital on Ocean Parkway.) But he also worries that a big new development would vacuum away the Boardwalk's seedy charms and render the place indistinguishable from any resort destination. ''We'd like to see Coney Island reserved as an amusement park area,'' he said.
 Besides, noted Mr. Fox, Coney Island doesn't go completely quiet in the winter. Behind closed doors, he said, the ride operators were already getting ready for the traditional Easter opening, repainting bumper cars, oiling drive chains, and patching up their tents. Soon warm weather would arrive, and with it the crowds.
 ''It's cold and it's quiet,'' he said. ''But people are around.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Surf and Stillwell Avenues in Coney Island, with not much stirring. ''Winter is dead,'' a hotel manager said. ''No people are coming to the water. No one comes.'' (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Frederick Finch, 16, left, works at an amusement park in season. At right, Frank Johnson, 80, is a former operator of the Cyclone.
 The Boardwalk is waiting for the good times, when the days are warmer and the place is full of people dressed in suntan lotion. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); VENDING MACHINES (71%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (69%); CONVENIENCE STORES (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); RETAILERS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); HOTEL STAFF (60%) Amusement and Theme Parks; Small Business; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; Coney Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



440 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: After $12,000, There's Even Room to Park the Car

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: WESTBURY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Angela Aloi used to begin a tour of her family's new dream house on Long Island the same way as any other proud suburban homeowner.
 She would guide her visitors to the icons of affluence adorning her colonial-style home: the two-story foyer, the granite kitchen counters and stainless steel appliances, the cedar deck and slate patio. But when she reached the family room -- just past the big screen TV and marble bar -- she would quickly pivot, using her body to seal off the door to the garage as if she were a human deadbolt.
''No one was going to see that mess if I could help it,'' she said. ''It was a landfill. Christmas decorations, bikes, clothes, Little League equipment, box after box of junk. And six hammers, because every time we needed one we'd have to buy a new one because we couldn't find the others. I'd tell my husband, 'That garage is the sign of a sick, sick mind.' ''
 But late last year, Mrs. Aloi, her husband and their three children finally managed to conquer their family dumping ground and turn it into the latest suburban status symbol, the designer garage. 
 The indoor landfill was replaced by bright floors made of durable, easy-to-clean plastic tiles and a clutter-free matrix of plastic storage bins. The arrangement is so tidy that there is room for the family S.U.V. and enough space for a pantry, lawn and garden supplies, sporting equipment, tools and even a weight bench. 
 Hoping to avert an onslaught of relentless renovation jokes, the Alois have avoided telling neighbors that they spent $8,000 to have a professional organizer do the makeover. 
 But they might be surprised at the sympathetic response: Suburban homeowners are so full of angst, guilt, despair and frustration over their bulging garages that they spent $800 million on garage organizing products last year, double the amount spent in 2000, according to the market research firm Packaged Facts. Alleviating that garage guilt could easily cost $12,000 per job. 
 The amount of money spent on garage makeovers is expected to rise by 10 percent a year for the rest of the decade, making garage organizing one of the fastest growing segments of the home improvement market.
 The National Association of Professional Organizers estimates that more than 500 organizing businesses specialize in garages, twice as many as in 2000. But for those who want to tackle the job themselves, there is an assortment of new storage systems that make your grandfather's pegboard seem absolutely Paleolithic. 
 ''In the 80's, it was California Closets,'' said Bill West, author of ''Your Garagenous Zone: Innovative Ideas for the Garage,'' one of a half-dozen books on the subject of messy garages. ''But today, garages are where it's all happening.''
 In some ways, its odd that suburban homeowners would be turning to garage feng shui just now. According to the National Association of Homebuilders, the size of the average new house built in the United States increased more than 50 percent between 1970 and 2004, even as the size of the average family grew smaller. Internet sites like eBay were supposed to help homeowners turn their clutter into cash by feeding the habits of pack rats across globe. Even garages themselves have grown: 83 percent of all new homes built in 2004 had two- or three-car garages, double the number in 1970.
 But the surge in online retailing and a flood of inexpensive imported goods has made it all too easy for recreational shoppers to overfill their McMansions. So the landscape of countless American subdivisions now features a peculiar anomaly: three-car garages so crammed with junk that the three cars are parked in the driveway. 
 At the Costa home in Shrewsbury, N.J., the decision to spend $12,000 on an intervention for their wayward garage was born of equal parts exasperation and shame. Barbara Costa, her husband, Vincent, and their three children, had packed so much into their garage that their cars would frequently get scratched by garbage cans and bicycle handle bars. To make matters worse, their next door neighbor's garage was a portrait of orderliness.
 ''You could eat off the floor over there,'' Mrs. Costa said. ''He's a fanatic about it. You always see him tidying up and keeping after people to pick things up. But when you see how beautiful his garage is, you've got to give the guy credit.''
 The Costas tried a home remedy at first, renting industrial-size trash-hauling bins to clear out anything expendable. But in a matter of months, the garage was once again a cluttered, confusing mess. 
 Late last year, the situation grew so dire that the Costas considered a radical procedure, adding a third bay to their two-car garage. That is when they received a flier in the mail from a garage organizing company and decided that the steep price was still more economical than a construction project.
 ''We just have to be certain to keep it that way,'' she said. ''Or else I'll have to go ask my neighbor for advice.''
 There are no reliable numbers to determine how many overhauled garages manage to stave off the inexorable tide of possessions over the long run. But the National Association of Professional Organizers Web site offers a provocative bit of encouragement, citing a survey taken by the Ikea furniture company in 2001 that inexplicably asserted that 31 percent of respondents got more satisfaction from cleaning a closet than having sex.
 Barry Izsak, the association's president, said that while some consumers can be reluctant to pay for professional help, which can run upward of $200 an hour, he rarely hears complaints from garage owners who do take the plunge.
 Mr. Izsak said that the problem that leads most garages down the path to sloth is a lack of clear vision. The garage is one of the few rooms used by everyone in a family, and often the largest in the house, but all that unstructured space turns into a catch-all. ''People keep all this worthless junk, 5-foot piles of National Geographics being eaten by mice and colonized by silverfish,'' Mr. Izsak said. 
 ''It's just plain weird,'' he said.
 Peter Walsh, a psychologist who earned the job description of celebrity organizer as host of the cable television program ''Clean Sweep'' for four seasons, has expanded his focus from treating the symptoms of clutter to pondering its causes.
 ''There's an orgy of consumption going on in this country,'' said Mr. Walsh, who later this year will release a book titled ''It's All Too Much'' (Free Press), about the psychology of clutter. Mr. Walsh acknowledges that he is a lonely voice calling for a new era of American asceticism. 
 ''This is the Supersize-Me society,'' he said. ''So it's going to take a while.''
 In the meantime, the professional organizing community can take comfort in people like Cary Africk of Montclair, N.J., a recidivist de-clutterer. A few years ago, he hired a local company called In Order to dig out the blizzard of paper in his engineering office. It worked so well that he brought them back the next year to reclaim his addled basement. Last year, Mr. Africk hired the company to take back the scrap heap that had once been his garage. 
 Mr. Africk said that as long as American society continues to inundate people with paperwork and possessions, he will be willing to pay for all the organizing help he can get.
 ''Do you think there's anyone out there who can help make sense out of all the junk and files in my computer?'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Before Evangeline and Nicholas Copolla's garage was reorganized for $12,000, a car was buried under clutter at their Monmouth County, N.J., home. The makeover included wall-mounted storage bins. (Photo by Joseph J. Delconzo for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 Evangeline and Nicholas Copolla of Monmouth County, N.J., hired a garage specialty company to redesign and organize their storage space. (Photo by Joseph J. Delconzo for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); HOME REMODELING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); WRITERS (77%); RESILIENT FLOOR COVERING (70%); YOUTH SPORTS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); MARKET RESEARCH (61%); CHRISTMAS (54%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%) Home Repairs and Improvements; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Home Repairs and Improvements

PERSON: David Kocieniewski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



441 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Elite Iraqi Unit Seeks Footing as It Fills U.S. Boots

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: AREA IV, Iraq 

 BODY:
The three helicopters took off after midnight from this Special Operations base outside Baghdad, bound for a rural community where a man suspected of being a ringleader of the insurgency was hiding in a compound marked on military maps as Objective Hades. 
 Landing beyond earshot of the village, three dozen troops began a quick march along silent roads, cutting across fields, plunging through a gully filled with frigid, waist-deep water, racing to complete the operation before sunrise. Wearing black masks and night-vision goggles, the troops circled the house, to trap anyone who tried to escape -- ''squirters,'' as the soldiers put it.
It was the kind of smash-and-grab mission that not many months ago was conducted solely by American forces in Iraq. But this time, only one-third of the troops were American, there to observe and advise. Kicking down the door and seizing the suspect were members of the new Iraqi Counterterrorism Force.
 The Bush administration has anchored its plans for troop withdrawals from Iraq on the promise of increasingly capable indigenous security units: the army, the police, border patrols and a facilities-protection service, currently totaling 227,000, although they are trained to vastly different levels of proficiency. 
 Now, as part of that program, American Special Operations forces commanders say they have shifted their own efforts from carrying out raids and attacks to training elite Iraqi teams to take over the most challenging missions. 
 Like their American counterparts, the new Iraqi special operations forces, now about 1,800, will be only a tiny percentage of the country's overall security forces, but they will take on some of the most dangerous missions, including capturing or killing insurgent and terrorist commanders, guarding Iraqi government leaders and rescuing hostages.
 The Iraqi special operations forces are rapidly moving toward full self-sufficiency in carrying out the combat part of their missions, American officers say, and there is general agreement these Iraqis are the best in the new military here. Even so, it is clear that some American troops will have to stay in Iraq for some time to come. American officers say that is because they share the burden of supplying food, fuel, weapons, ammunition, spare parts, maintenance and, perhaps most of all, intelligence on individual targets and a disciplined planning process. 
 ''Going through the door is the easy part,'' said Col. Kenneth Tovo, the new commander of the American Special Operations mission in Iraq. ''Planning is more difficult.'' 
 Colonel Tovo said his goal in the months ahead was to insert American Special Operations forces into the training for the Iraqis, and then to stand back in an ''overwatch'' role during their missions.
 Members of the Army Green Berets and Navy Seals accompany the Iraqi counterterrorism unit, but the Iraqis take the lead. 
 Iraqi special operations forces receive the highest level of training and best equipment available in the country. They fly aboard Special Operations helicopters with high-technology optics for night operations, and they drive armored, and heavily armed, Humvees with Iraqi desert camouflage and the national flag.
 The budget for their new operations base includes $50 million for the construction of a headquarters, a training center, barracks and a hospital. The pay for special operations forces can exceed that of their colleagues in the regular army, where the base pay is up to $340 per month, American officials say. 
 They also receive daily lectures from American advisers on the need to respect the laws of armed conflict, as well as warnings not to use their emerging commando abilities to settle historic religious or ethnic scores.
 The Iraqis who sign up for their nation's new special operations forces face a degree of risk far beyond those who choose to serve in a restructured army or police force. The Iraqi counterterrorism and commando troops are registered on Iraqi Ministry of Defense payrolls by numbers, not by names, since several have been kidnapped or killed after their identities were disclosed.
 Interviews with Iraqi counterterrorism troops in training revealed that they had a variety of reasons for enduring the danger, the rigorous selection process, the basic training conducted in Jordan and the advanced combat courses in Iraq, many now taught by a growing number of Iraqi sergeants who have graduated from the program.
 A 26-year-old Sunni from a village south of Baghdad said he enlisted after his brother was killed and his father was wounded in a terrorist attack. A 28-year-old volunteer -- his mother Shiite and his father Sunni -- left his engineering courses with a desire to halt the rise of partisan militias. A 26-year-old Baghdad native, also the son of one Shiite parent and one Sunni parent, said he hoped to fight Shiite militias, Sunni insurgents and foreign terrorists ''because they all are a threat to my country.''
 The commander of the Iraqi Special Operations Forces Brigade, Col. Fadhil Jameel al-Barwari, said his troops lived anonymously in their communities. The troops receive about 10 days of leave a month, not only to allow them to recover from their missions but to give them time to deliver their pay to families across a country that still operates as a cash economy.
 The volunteers tell relatives they work for the government. Not one has told the full truth.
 ''They are citizens, they live outside the compound -- so they see whatever they can see and they collect information for us every day, even when they are not here training or on a mission,'' said Colonel Barwari, in an interview in an office decorated with a stuffed falcon, a bust of a samurai and ornamental weapons. 
 The new Iraqi counterterrorism unit is 70 percent Shiite, 20 percent Sunni and 10 percent Kurdish. About 65 percent have military experience, and American advisers have to take into account how Saddam Hussein used his military to quash political opponents, and how some members of today's new Iraqi military and police forces have been discovered committing abuses, even atrocities.
 Raids by American forces of Iraqi government detention centers have uncovered scores of abused prisoners, prompting the Americans to lead an inquiry into the Iraqi prison system. Adding to concerns was the news that the Interior Ministry had begun its own inquiry into claims that its officers were operating death squads to hunt Sunni Arabs. 
 ''I spend a great part of every day going over how you are to treat civilians, how you are to treat those you capture,'' said the Army Special Forces major who leads the training program. (Under rules for a reporter embedded with the Special Operations forces, only senior commanders could be quoted by name.) 
 ''I want them to get to the point where I don't even have to go outside the wire with them on missions,'' the major said. ''That's our ticket home.''
 Col. Kevin M. McDonnell, reflecting in a recent interview on his seven-month assignment as commander of American Special Operations forces in Iraq, which ended in late January, said: ''At this point, we are not doing any unilateral operations. Everything is in conjunction with Iraqi special operations forces.'' The focus of the raids is not only to capture suspected insurgents, he said, but also ''to generate intelligence'' to identify other insurgent leaders, planners and financiers. 
 The Iraqi Special Operations Forces Brigade, led by Colonel Barwari, a Kurd who worked with Army Green Berets in northern Iraq during the war to oust Mr. Hussein, was created by American Special Forces in 2004, and since has grown to command two battalion-size units.
 One of them, the Iraqi Counterterrorism Force, is modeled on secret American special-mission units, is trained at this base. (The military keeps the precise location secret.) This unit is trained to conduct precise small-unit operations.
 Nearby, in the shadow of a palace once reserved for members of the Hussein government, American Special Operations forces are training a commando battalion to carry out a heavier combat load in specialized missions, similar to those assigned to Army Rangers. The unit, formerly called the 36th Commando Battalion, has been reorganized. It is now known as the First Battalion under the command of the Iraqi Special Operations Forces Brigade.
 ''The Iraqi Counterterrorism Force is the scalpel,'' said one Army Green Beret captain involved in the training. ''The commandos are the big bat.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); ARMIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); HELICOPTERS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (72%); BORDER CONTROL (68%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



442 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 566 words

PERSON: Don Paarlberg 

HEADLINE: Don Paarlberg, 94, Agricultural Economics Adviser to 3 Presidents

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Don Paarlberg, a farmer, writer and professor of agricultural economics who, as a White House assistant, helped President Dwight D. Eisenhower prepare and run his Food for Peace initiative, died Tuesday in West Lafayette, Ind. He was 94. 
 His death was announced by Soller-Baker Funeral Homes in Lafayette.
Dr. Paarlberg, an academic with hands-on farming experience, was an assistant secretary of agriculture when Eisenhower chose him as a special assistant to the president in the late 1950's. He was entrusted with shepherding what became Food for Peace, formally known as Public Law 480, Title II, into existence and serving as its coordinator in its fledgling years, from 1958 to 1961.
 Food for Peace evolved from earlier famine relief efforts, particularly the part of the Marshall Plan that helped keep millions from starving in Europe after Word War II. By the early 1950's, American grain surpluses had grown to mountains, and Eisenhower sold the program to Congress as ''the basis for a permanent expansion of our exports of agricultural products with lasting benefits to ourselves and peoples of other lands.''
 ''Food,'' he said, ''can be a powerful instrument for all the free world in building durable peace.'' 
 Eisenhower signed the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act in July 1954, allowing developing countries to buy those surpluses on long-term credits. In the 50 years since then, the United States has sent more than 100 million metric tons of aid overseas, according to the United States Agency for International Development, the agency that administers Food for Peace.
 Dr. Paarlberg was brought in from academia at the program's inception in 1953 as an economic adviser to the secretary of agriculture. He was named an assistant secretary in 1957 and became the program's coordinator the next year. 
 Don Paarlberg was born to a farming family in Oak Glen, now Lansing, Ill., and after high school worked at home on the farm for eight years during the Great Depression. He graduated from Purdue University in 1940 and received a master's, in 1942, and a Ph.D., in 1947, from Cornell.
 He started his academic career at Purdue in 1946, as an assistant professor of agricultural economics, and was named a full professor the year before he first entered government service. He returned to Purdue as Hillenbrand professor of agricultural economics in 1961 but over the years continued to fill assignments for Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. 
 He was an adviser to four secretaries of agriculture and the Ford Foundation. In the early and mid-1970's he was the Agriculture Department's chief economist, often reporting to the public and Congress about crop yields and farm prices.
 He was the author or co-author of nine books on agriculture and economic policy. The last of them, written with a nephew, Philip Paarlberg, was ''The Agricultural Revolution of the 20th Century,'' published by Iowa State University Press in 2000.
 Through much of his life Dr. Paarlberg also wrote poetry. When he turned 90, he published a volume of his verses, most of them written to his wife, Eva Robertson Paarlberg. They were married in 1940, and she died in 1997.
 Dr. Paarlberg is survived by two sons, Don Jr., of Fairfax, Va., and Robert, of Watertown, Mass.; two brothers, Russell, of Magnolia Springs, Ala., and Horace, of West Lafayette; and a grandson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); STARVATION (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); FAMINE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (68%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (56%)

RICHARD NIXON (58%) Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



443 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Reach of Clean Water Act Is at Issue in 2 Supreme Court Cases This Week

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
More than half of the nation's streams and wetlands could be removed from the protections of the federal Clean Water Act if two legal challenges started more than a decade ago by two Michigan developers are supported by a majority of the newly remade Supreme Court.
 One case involves a developer who wanted to sell a wetland for a shopping center and in preparation filled it with sand without applying for a permit, in defiance of the authorities. The second was brought by a would-be condominium developer who applied to the Army Corps of Engineers for a permit to fill a wetland and was denied.
Oral arguments in the cases -- the first before the newest justice, Samuel A. Alito Jr. -- are scheduled for Tuesday morning. They will pit developers and a phalanx of their industrial, agricultural and ideological allies against both the solicitor general and a who's who of environmental lawyers in an argument over the scope of one of the country's fundamental environmental laws.
 The central question is where federal authority ends along the network of rivers, streams, canals and ditches. Does it reach all the veins and arterioles of the nation's waters, and all the wetlands that drain into them? Does it end with the waterways that are actually navigable and the wetlands abutting them? Or is it some place in between? 
 Also at issue are who draws those lines -- and how -- and who decides what the Clean Water Act means by ''navigable waters'' and ''the waters of the United States.'' 
 Tucked into the larger question is the issue of how many of the nation's 100 million or so acres of wetlands have a close enough connection, or nexus, to regulated waters to fit under the same regulatory umbrella. 
 The twin cases, blending questions of hydrology and federalism, take aim at the constitutional and legal underpinnings of the federally run system that controls the health of the nation's web of waterways. The developers argue that the federal custodians of the Clean Water Act have overreached by asserting jurisdiction over ditches and wetlands far from the large waterways over which Congress has clear authority.
 In addition, the cases bring a rich cast of characters to the court. It includes a cantankerous developer who has likened environmental regulators to Nazis, a legal foundation dedicated to reining in government and a diverse group of supporters on both sides, including the Western Coalition of Arid States, the Association of California Water Agencies, the American Petroleum Institute and the libertarian Cato Institute.
 M. Reed Hopper of the Pacific Legal Foundation, who represents one developer, John A. Rapanos, argues that the existing interpretation of the law infringes on the rights of states and individuals and impermissibly gives the federal government authority over ''any area over which water flows, including a public street with an attached storm drain, a private lawn that drains to the street or, quite literally, the kitchen sink.''
 In response, the government, backed by major environmental groups, federal and state regulators and a bipartisan group of former administrators of the Environmental Protection Agency, says that the theories of Mr. Rapanos and his fellow developer, June Carabell, would remove more than half of existing waterways -- perhaps as many as 99 percent, by one estimate -- from federal water pollution controls.
 In addition, they argue, if the court were to uphold the developers' position, the result would be to upend a decades-old regulatory system.
 Wetlands are nurseries for creatures at the bottom of many food chains, filters that keep some nutrients and pollutants out of streams, and buffers against flooding.
 If the court interpreted the Clean Water Act as controlling only actually navigable waterways and their immediate tributaries and adjacent wetlands, ''then discharges of such materials as sewage, toxic chemicals and medical waste into those tributaries would not be subject'' to regulation under the law, the solicitor general, Paul D. Clement, wrote in the government's brief.
 Both developers sought to fill wetlands to make way for development -- in Mr. Rapanos's case, a shopping mall in Midland, Mich.; in the case of Ms. Carabell, a condominium in Chesterfield Township. Mr. Rapanos defied state regulators, who, acting with federal authority specifically delegated by the E.P.A., told him not to fill his wetland without a permit. Ms. Carabell applied for a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers and was rejected.
 The two cases present physical as well as legal differences. The wetlands owned by Mr. Rapanos -- two others, in addition to the one where the shopping center was once planned -- are as far as 20 miles from local rivers, but adjacent to ditches that drain into tributaries of those rivers. Ms. Carabell's wetlands abut a ditch that drains into nearby Lake St. Clair, but are separated from the ditch by an earthen berm.
 The legal arguments in the briefs pit two recent Supreme Court precedents against each other. In a 1985 California case, United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, the court observed that Congress had intended ''to regulate at least some waters that would not be deemed 'navigable' under the classical understanding of that term.'' Referring to the role of wetlands in protecting larger waterways, the court said that activity in wetlands abutting open waterways could be controlled by the corps.
 In this case, the government argues that the court should extend the authority of the corps to wetlands abutting tributaries of actually navigable waters. The constitutional lever through which the control is exercised is the Commerce Clause, which provides for federal control both over direct avenues of commerce -- like waterways crucial to trade -- and over issues that ''substantially affect'' interstate commerce.
 In 2001, in an Illinois case, Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County v. United States, the court said the corps overreached its legal and constitutional authority by claiming control over an isolated quarry. The quarry had filled with water and was used by migratory birds, which are protected under federal law. The court ruled that there had to be a ''significant nexus'' between the regulated wetland or stream and true ''navigable waters.'' If not, regulation of the water body fell to the state.
 Most states represented in the amicus briefs, minus Alaska (where most of the country's wetlands are located) and Utah, back the government. A brief for state and regional water pollution officials said states ''know they cannot adequately protect these resources acting alone.'' 
 As Douglas Kendall, one of the lawyers for these officials, explained, a downstream state could suffer the pollution from a neighbor raking in tax revenues off the associated development. The downstream state, he said, would have clear economic incentives to do the same.
 But the brief for Alaska, Utah, the California Farm Bureau and several Western water authorities argues that ''the wetlands in these cases did not have a 'significant nexus' to navigable waters because they were not adjacent to navigable waters; did not significantly affect navigation or interstate commerce in such waters; and had no apparent, significant effects on the actual flows or condition of such waters.''
 That brief argues that it is the federal control over navigation that gives the E.P.A. and the corps authority over navigable waters, and that unless their regulations directly prevent impediments to navigation -- unless, for example, they deal with issues like the level of river flows -- the issues fall to the states. The act, the brief argues, ''authorizes federal jurisdiction up to the limits of the navigation power but not beyond.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John A. Rapanos, a developer in Michigan, is challenging the federal government's authority over a wetland he owns and filled with sand. (Photo by Tom Pidgeon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WETLANDS (94%); WATER QUALITY (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); RIVERS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); JURISDICTION (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); LITIGATION (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENGINEERING (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (67%); ARMIES (56%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (50%) Wetlands; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation; Land Use Policies; Wetlands

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (57%) Felicity Barringer; John A Rapanos; June Carabell

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Michigan; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



444 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; 2006 OLYMPIC WINTER GAMES -- SPEEDSKATING: MEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Cheek Makes the Most Out of Gold After Missing Out on Crimson 

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

DATELINE: TURIN, Italy, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
The e-mail message arrived in Joey Cheek's in-box Dec. 15. The subject line read ''Harvard admissions status.'' Cheek's heart started hammering against his chest wall. He stared at the subject field until the words ran together. 
 ''I could guarantee you, I have never been that nervous for an Olympic race as I was for opening that,'' he said.
 The 26-year-old Cheek, a long-track speedskater, had won a bronze medal in the 1,000 meters at the 2002 Olympics. His prospects for the 2006 Olympics were bright. He was bright. Hadn't he been reading The Wall Street Journal since he was in the sixth grade? 
 As Cheek sat with a finger crooked over the key that would reveal his future, it mattered little that he was an elite athlete. All he wanted to be was a Harvard man. 
 He wanted it so much he had applied for early admission. He wanted it so much he applied nowhere else. He wanted it so much he retook the SAT last June to prove he had not lost any brain cells since taking it a decade earlier, when he was squeezing in high school correspondence courses around practices and competitions. 
 Cheek clicked on the message. ''Appreciate the effort,'' he read. ''Obviously, we receive many great applicants.'' Two months later, the rest of his rejection is a blur. 
 ''I was devastated,'' Cheek said. Then he smiled. It was Sunday afternoon, the first day of the second week of the XX Winter Olympics, and the whole world, it seemed, was laughing with Cheek, who has become the unofficial good-will ambassador of these Games, the breakout Gets-It guy. 
 It started when Cheek won a gold medal in the 500 meters. He announced he was donating his $25,000 United States Olympic Committee bonus to Right to Play, a humanitarian organization based in Toronto that is focused on helping disadvantaged children through sports. The next day, Right to Play's Web site, which had been averaging 14,000 hits a day during the previous two weeks, received 93,329. 
 Since Cheek spoke up, Gap, the United States clothier, has pledged $25,000, joining others in a money chain that has surpassed $300,000. And thanks to his silver-medal performance Saturday in the 1,000 meters, and another $15,000 bonus from the U.S.O.C., Cheek's total donation to Right to Play has reached $40,000. 
 That is roughly the amount a world-class speedskater can earn from his sport in a really good year. ''It's like a snowball,'' said Nancy Shea, spokeswoman for Right to Play. ''It keeps rolling down the hill and getting bigger and bigger. He has really touched people.'' 
 Cheek is an antitoxin for those who have been fed a steady diet of showboating, sniping, self-absorbed Olympians. ''To be that inspiration for people to do better in the world, I love that,'' said Johann Olav Koss, the four-time speedskating gold medalist from Norway, who is Cheek's childhood inspiration and the force behind Right to Play. 
 ''It takes a special person to be able to do what Joey did; I think what makes him unique is he has a very large intellectual capacity,'' Koss added. ''I would recruit him as my American C.E.O., no problem.''
 That's swell. Would Koss care to put that in writing and send it to the admissions department at Harvard? Koss laughed. ''I have no problems doing that,'' he said. 
 When Koss's offer was relayed to him, Cheek, who had just finished sitting for one quick interview after another, appeared to blush through his TV makeup. 
 ''That's really flattering,'' he said. 
 He said he had received 300 to 400 e-mail messages since winning the 500 meters. 
 Cheek, who will race in the 1,500 on Tuesday, has not heard from Harvard admissions, but several people professing to be Harvard alumni have reached out to him. 
 ''Several of them have said, 'We would love to have you,' '' Cheek said. He said others had said, ''Don't sweat it because we went there and it's not that big a deal.'' 
 Cheek laughed. ''A few have offered to do anything they can to help,'' he said. ''I love it. If there was some way I could get in, I'd take it.'' 
 He paused to consider that last comment. He said cheerfully that by letting it be known he wanted to get in, he had probably hurt his chances. ''In their defense,'' he added, referring to Harvard, ''I wasn't a gold medalist in the fall when I applied. I was a bronze medalist.'' 
 But that is still an amazing accomplishment, right? ''Yeah,'' Cheek replied. ''But you know how it is in the U.S.''
 Cheek, who wants to study economics, has not been in a classroom since the age of 16. So he had that going against him. Then there was the math. 
 ''There were 22,000 applicants for 1,600 spots,'' Cheek began, launching into a nonauthoritative, lighthearted riff on Harvard admission policies. ''Forty percent are legacy. So we're down to 1,000. Half men, half women, so you're down to 500. Students in sports, you're down to 250. Half-minority, half blond-haired, blue-eyed, middle-class white boys, and you're finally at maybe 75.'' 
 Turning serious, Cheek added, ''Think how many kids there are who are valedictorian with perfect SAT scores that deserve to go to Harvard, and you can understand why I didn't get in.''
 Cheek, who has since applied to other universities, said he had only himself to blame. ''I worked hard at skating because I had to or I wouldn't have been any good,'' he said. ''In school, I can't say that I always worked as hard as I'm capable of. 
 ''At 26, I have the perspective to look at it now and say I hurt myself by doing that. I look at it like I learned my lesson.'' 
 What he learned goes beyond any college degree -- that athleticism and altruism are two sides of the same gold medal. 
 ''That's what I think is the beauty of this,'' Koss said. ''These things, it's not possible to plan. You can never expect it to happen. When it does, it's fantastic.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joey Cheek has donated his Olympic bonuses to a children's charity. (Photo by Vincent Laforet for The New York Times)(pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ICE SKATING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); PHILANTHROPY (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Olympic Games; Speed Skating; Ice Skating; Olympic Games (2006); Winter Games (Olympics); Philanthropy

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University; Right to Play (Orgn)

PERSON: Karen Crouse; Joey Cheek

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (77%) UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



445 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Mazzone Rocks On, Taking His Magic to Baltimore 

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Feb. 16 

 BODY:
The Baltimore Orioles were conducting their first spring-training staff meeting Wednesday when Leo Mazzone slowly began behaving like Leo Mazzone. He moved forward in his chair, then back, forward, then back again, rock, rock, rocking the way he always does.
 ''I said to myself, 'Look, he's doing it,' '' said Jim Duquette, the Orioles' vice president for baseball operations. 
Mazzone, the Orioles' new pitching coach, was energized by a discussion about some of Baltimore's pitchers, so he moved like a human pendulum. For 15 1/2 seasons, Mazzone sat beside Bobby Cox, the manager of the Atlanta Braves, and rocked and developed superb pitching staffs. Now Mazzone will try to do the same beside Orioles Manager Sam Perlozzo, who is his best friend. 
 ''I've done it since I was a kid,'' Mazzone said. ''My mother said I did it in the high chair. The doctor said when I get excited, I rock.''
 To watch Mazzone crouch behind the bullpen mounds like a middle infielder for a sharper view of pitches, to hear him talk about working for Perlozzo, his boyhood friend from Maryland, and to see how pitchers stand rigid like Marines when he counsels them is to sense the excitement. 
 The Orioles hired Mazzone to invigorate a young pitching staff that was 10th in the American League with a 4.56 earned run average last season. When Perlozzo introduced Mazzone to the pitchers and the catchers Thursday, he all but read Mazzone's resume. That included how the Braves won 14 division titles and finished first or second in the National League in E.R.A. in 12 of those seasons. 
 ''His ideas and work habits with the pitchers are just right,'' Perlozzo said. ''They believe in him. He makes them believe in him.''
 The Braves, who replaced Mazzone with the first-year coach Roger McDowell, have been effusive in their praise of Mazzone while reminding everyone that their proud organization will keep churning without him. John Smoltz credited Mazzone for molding his career, but he does not feel there is suddenly a void next to Cox. 
 ''When people see there's not this great despair or this, 'Oh, my gosh,' I think they're taking it the wrong way,'' Smoltz said about Mazzone's leaving. ''I think they're looking at it like life is going to stop. It's not. I'm sure if anyone thinks over in Baltimore that life is going to begin, it's not. It's just a matter of time to have these things work out.''
 Cox said he sometimes looked for Greg Maddux and Tom Glavine by their old lockers after they left Atlanta. But he didn't seem as nostalgic about the departure of Mazzone, a coach he had worked with since both were appointed to their positions with the Braves on June 22, 1990. 
 ''It's strange, a little bit, not having Leo,'' Cox said.
 Smoltz said Atlanta's perennial pitching success increased expectations among inexperienced pitchers and sometimes rattled them. Because the Braves had six Cy Young Award winners and nine 20-game winners under Mazzone's tutelage, Smoltz said some pitchers tried to become the next Maddux or Glavine to impress Mazzone. That pressure, Smoltz said, could be detrimental.
 Still, a detailed statistical analysis showed that Mazzone's coaching makes a major difference. J. C. Bradbury, an economics professor at Sewanee: The University of the South, in Sewanee, Tenn., determined that Mazzone helped pitchers decrease their E.R.A.'s by slightly more than half a run per season. 
 ''That's a huge number,'' Bradbury said.
 In Bradbury's 2004 study, he researched every pitcher who had pitched at least one season for Mazzone and compared their yearly E.R.A.'s with Mazzone and without him. Bradbury, a Braves fan who was skeptical of Mazzone's effect on pitchers, was surprised by the results. His research is on the Web site baseballanalysts.com.
 During most of Mazzone's tenure, the Braves were primarily built around Maddux, Glavine and Smoltz, the three jewels of their starting rotation. But the Braves, who won one World Series title with the Cox-Mazzone combination, often had bullpen trouble. Smoltz brought up the disparity and suggested that McDowell, a former relief pitcher who began his career with the Mets, might be able to help the bullpen.
 ''I found it interesting, and I'm not making a slap toward Leo or anything, but I found it interesting how the credit was given for the starters, but there was no blame for the relievers,'' Smoltz said. He added, ''How do you lead the league in categories like we proclaimed and not be a whole staff leading?''
 Mazzone said the Braves would continue to flourish as long as Cox was the manager and John Schuerholz was the general manager. He credited the Braves' success to them and to what he called the greatest starters over a sustained period in baseball history. 
 ''I'm not stupid,'' Mazzone said. ''The reason why people get around me a little bit is because I had great pitchers to work with.''
 With the Orioles, Mazzone will work with a rotation of Rodrigo Lopez, Kris Benson, Erik Bedard, Daniel Cabrera and Bruce Chen. Mazzone is a taskmaster and wants his pitchers throwing off the mound, not long tossing. He prefers to have starters throw twice between outings. He does not want relievers to go more than two days without throwing.
 Mazzone's methods will be tested in the American League East, where the Yankees and the Boston Red Sox have dominated and where the Toronto Blue Jays are improved. Mazzone says his rocking speeds up as the intensity rises. So he could be rock, rock, rocking a lot with the still-growing Orioles. 
 ''I might,'' Mazzone said, ''be going a little faster the first time around.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Leo Mazzone, the Orioles' new pitching coach, with Chris Ray on Thursday. The Orioles hope Mazzone will improve their young staff. (Photo by Gerry Broome/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (86%); SPORTS BUSINESS (71%) Baseball; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (57%) Baltimore Orioles

PERSON: Jack Curry; Leo Mazzone

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



446 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; 2006 OLYMPIC WINTER GAMES -- BOBSLED; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Black Athletes Missing From the Pilot's Seat

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

DATELINE: TURIN, Italy, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Herschel Walker demonstrated that blacks could have success in the essentially white sport of bobsledding when he competed in the Winter Olympics 14 years ago.
 But Walker did so as a push athlete, not as a driver. The role of the pusher is defined by strength, brawn and athleticism. The role of the driver is a lauded position that requires grace, wits and touch. The driver steers the sled down the track, while the pushers are charged with getting the sled off to a fast start, then hopping in for the ride.
Many blacks have competed in the Olympics for the United States as push athletes, but none have held the coveted pilot position. 
 This may evoke comparisons to a discredited stigma once attached to blacks in football -- that they were not intelligent enough to play quarterback and were better suited for athletic positions like running back and wide receiver.
 In bobsledding, ''that preconceived notion is there, but not like it used to be,'' said Greg Harrell, a former receiver at Maryland who participated in the 1992 Olympics as a pusher and remains an avid supporter of bobsledding.
 Although Harrell, who is black, sensed some bias in the sport in his day, he and others -- black and white alike -- agree that the issue cannot be simplified.
 Those familiar with the sport have mentioned several possible reasons for the inability of a black athlete to break through as a bobsled pilot, including cost, geographical limitations and the structure of the sport.
 Joe McDonald paid little attention to the roadblocks associated with being named a driver when he became a pilot in 1996. 
 McDonald, who retired last year, has never driven in an Olympics, but he is believed to be the only black athlete to have driven on the World Cup tour.
 ''I felt like I had a better control of my destiny if I was a pilot,'' McDonald, who is from Kingston, N.Y., said in a telephone interview. ''As a push athlete, you find yourself at the mercy of someone else's decision.''
 With Lake Placid, N.Y., and Park City, Utah, serving as the only homes of bobsled tracks in the United States, it is easy to see why blacks -- and most of mainstream America, for that matter -- receive little exposure to the sport.
 ''Bobsled is not something you're going to be doing in your backyard,'' said Walker, a Heisman Trophy winner who spent 12 seasons as a running back in the N.F.L. ''That's something very unique; it's something you have to grow up being around.''
 But that was not the case for the United States' No. 1 driver, Todd Hays. He is from Del Rio, Tex., which is not exactly a hotbed of winter sports. Hays, who is white and played football at Tulsa, is considered one of the top pilots in the world.
 Brian Shimer is also white and from a warm climate (Naples, Fla.), but he competed in four Olympics as a driver and capped his career in Salt Lake City in 2002 by piloting the four-man team that won the bronze medal.
 To Shimer, anyone willing to put in the effort can be a driver, regardless of race. Right out of Morehead State, Shimer said, he used bobsledding to see the world and eventually fell in love with the sport.
 ''You got to put a lifetime into this to become a driver,'' said Shimer, who drove for Walker in the 1992 Olympics and is the driving coach for this year's team. ''If you're prepared to do that, you can become successful in the sport.''
 Most drivers, including Shimer, started in the sport as pushers. Some have said the primary reason that there are no elite-level black drivers is that none of the black push athletes wanted to make the switch.
 ''I think they've just been comfortable being a pusher,'' Walker said.
 Chris Coleman, a two-time Olympic push athlete who is black, said the financial barriers were the main reason for not making the switch.
 ''To enter the sport of bobsled as a push athlete is a very low economic barrier of entry,'' Coleman, an associate director of partnership marketing for the United States Olympic Committee, said by telephone. ''However, to take that next step to being a driver requires a lot more capital investment.''
 To begin their driving careers, pilots are expected to buy their own sleds, which start at $10,000 but cost about $40,000 for the world-class models. As they make names for themselves, drivers could receive financial support from the United States Bobsled and Skeleton Federation.
 Drivers may also have to pay for their push crews and for travel expenses.
 ''In order to do that, some bobsled drivers of the past have had systems set up that would support them,'' Coleman said. ''African-American athletes are working on developing those economic systems.''
 The federation generally finances its top three drivers and provides them with the best sleds. But the allotments, some have said, are arbitrary.
 McDonald said he did not want to play the race card, but he was suspicious of some instances in which he was passed over for financing and sleds.
 ''I'm not entirely sure'' it was because of race, he said. He added, ''When I weighed all the other reasons why I was getting the short end of the stick, it seemed to be the only factor that was standing out.''
 Vonetta Flowers, who became the first black athlete to win a gold medal at the Winter Olympics by pushing for Jill Bakken in the 2002 Games, said she hoped to inspire blacks to drive. She will push Monday for Jean Prahm, but she said she planned to pursue driving after the Games.
 ''I hope that my explosiveness and speed will enable me to gain an advantage over my competitors,'' Flowers wrote in an e-mail message, ''and allow me to be successful so that I can inspire a new generation of bobsledders.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a sports article on Monday about the absence of black drivers in Olympic bobsled competition referred incorrectly in some copies to the distinction held by Joe McDonald on the World Cup tour. He was its first African-American driver; black drivers from other nations had competed on the tour.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (95%); OLYMPICS (94%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (74%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2006); Winter Games (Olympics); Blacks; Bobsledding

PERSON: John Eligon

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (73%) UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



447 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: By Sacrificing Its Catalog, Will Disney Spoil Its Internet Business?

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
MICKEY MOUSE'S next big role: e-commerce renegade.
 The Walt Disney Company, an icon of mainstream America, will move against the grain of conventional business strategy this spring when it stops distributing a catalog that has filled the mailboxes of tens of millions of households for the last decade, and instead embarks on a Web-only initiative.
''Customers almost dictated this to us,'' said Paul Gainer, vice president of Disney Shopping, a division of Disney Consumer Products. ''Once they go online we just don't see them going back to the phone.'' 
 The move bucks a trend that has practically become gospel in online commerce in the past several years -- namely, that retailers who sell through the combined channels of catalogs, Web sites and physical stores engender more customer loyalty and bigger profits than those that do not.
 Many online retailers lack the means to open traditional stores, so this so-called multichannel approach has been beyond their reach. But they still have the photos, call centers and warehouses needed to put together a decent catalog operation. 
 Why catalogs? Simple, executives say: they're pretty. Unlike most other advertising media, catalogs are something customers want to cozy up with on the couch and browse, sans mouse. Partly on the strength of that idea, companies like RedEnvelope, Ice.com, Amazon and eBay, among many others, have gotten behind the concept and distributed catalogs in recent years.
 But useful as they may be, Mr. Gainer said, catalogs were simply not ringing the registers as loudly. Disney spent $18 million to mail 30 million catalogs last year -- half of them sent in the holiday season. The holiday mailing went to similar groups as the previous year's did, yet Disney had a 45 percent drop in phone orders. The number of customers who responded to e-mail and other online marketing messages, meanwhile, skyrocketed.
 ''I think it's time to focus just on e-commerce, and see how great we can be,'' Mr. Gainer said.
 Jim Coogan, president of Catalog Marketing Economics, a consultancy based in Santa Fe, was critical of Disney's decision, calling it ''something I see a lot from the e-commerce world.''
 ''What almost inevitably happens,'' Mr. Coogan said, ''is that the business has lower costs, as expected, but a much greater-than-expected drop in sales. Typically companies expect to hold onto almost all the Web sales and are surprised when that doesn't happen.'' 
 Disney isn't the first cataloger to cut back radically on its mailings in an effort to shift more business to the Internet. In 1999, Lands' End cut its catalog circulation by 9 percent; its revenue soon fell by nearly twice that percentage, in an experiment that many online executives still point to as evidence that catalogs are more critical to driving Internet sales than they may appear.
 But Mr. Gainer says 2006 is a much different selling environment online. Not only have high-speed Internet connections led to more aggressive online buying by mainstream customers, but search engines are considerably more effective in helping attract those customers than they were in 1999.
 Mr. Gainer said the unit, which sold $160 million of products last year, did not make the decision lightly. His team tested various catalog mailing approaches in the last six months to analyze if it should keep the catalog operation running. But no matter the approach, online orders grew much faster than telephone sales, to the point that more than 80 percent of Disney Shopping's sales now come online. In fiscal 2005, Disney's consumer products division, which includes stores, product licensing, catalog and the Internet, sold nearly $21 billion globally.
 By eliminating the catalog, Disney will save a substantial amount of money. In addition to closing a call center in Kansas earlier this month, Mr. Gainer said he had eliminated an undisclosed number of other staff positions. ''We had some people with expertise in print, production and photography,'' he said. ''Some have been restructured, some will be replaced with online-specific positions.''
 The $18 million that went into the catalog division will instead be used to buy search-engine advertisements, improve the company's e-mail marketing campaigns and develop a more extensive roster of third-party sites, known in industry parlance as affiliates, to help refer buyers to Disney.com.
 Disney.com will see ''consistent double-digit sales growth'' as a result of this switch, Mr. Gainer predicted, compared with just 5 percent sales growth in 2005. ''Our marketing will be much more efficient online than with print.''
 While that may be true, Disney is not getting much slack from the analyst community. ''I think this is really short-sighted,'' said Donna L. Hoffman, professor of marketing at Vanderbilt University. 
 Ms. Hoffman said that customers who shopped using a particular retailer's stores, catalogs and Web site spent 15 percent more with that company than those who shopped through just one of those three components. ''Disney's just leaving all of that on the table,'' she said.
 Catalogers have struggled to maintain costs amid rising postage and printing costs in the past year, Ms. Hoffman said. ''And people are definitely cutting back. They're printing fewer catalogs, with less pages and they're reducing their call center staff. But no one's saying 'Let's get rid of catalogs because they cost too much.' '' 
 Ms. Hoffman also suggested that reversing course could be difficult. ''It's really hard to get back the cataloging expertise they're throwing out. What if they decide it was a mistake, and need to get those back, which at some point if they're flush with cash they might do?''
 Not a chance, said Mr. Gainer. The company plans two final catalog drops of a million pieces each, in March and April. 
 ''You may see print materials in the future, a postcard or something, but it will only be to drive traffic online,'' he said. ''There won't be another 80-page catalog.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Customers almost dictated this to us,'' Paul Gainer, vice president of Disney Shopping, said of the company's decision to discontinue its catalog. ''Once they go online we just don't see them going back to the phone.'' (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); CALL CENTERS (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Catalogs; Consumer Behavior; Sales; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); WALT DISNEY CONSUMER PRODUCTS (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (83%)

PERSON: Paul Gainer; Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



448 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: Company Town Relies on G.M. Long After Plants Have Closed 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: ANDERSON, Ind., Feb. 16 

 BODY:
General Motors once had so many plants here that it had to stagger their schedules so that the streets would not be clogged with traffic when the workday ended. At the city's peak, 35 years ago, one of every three people in Anderson worked for G.M.
 Now there is not a single G.M. plant left, and just two parts plants that G.M. once owned still survive. Anderson, about 50 miles northeast of Indianapolis, had 70,000 people in 1970 and now has fewer than 58,000.
But in many ways, Anderson is still just as dependent on G.M. as it once was. Only now, rather than being dependent on General Motors, the corporation, it is dependent on General Motors, the welfare state.
 The company's generous medical plans, prescription drug coverage, dental care and pension checks are a lifeline for the 10,000 G.M. retirees and an untold number of surviving spouses and other family members who still live in the Anderson area. 
 They in turn help to prop up the doctor's offices, hospitals, buffet restaurants and shopping centers that might otherwise vanish along with the G.M. plants around the city that are fast becoming rubble. Anderson's G.M. retirees outnumber its remaining auto manufacturing workers by nearly four to one.
 ''When we all die off, this city will die,'' Jesse Lollar, 83, said last week, as he finished an early dinner of lima beans and macaroni and cheese at the MCL Cafeteria in the Mounds Mall.
 Other communities will start to look more like Anderson as G.M. carries out its plan to close a dozen factories and cut 30,000 blue-collar jobs by the end of 2008, in part by offering buyouts and early retirement packages. And Anderson will in all probability begin to look even grimmer as the company cuts back on its vaunted benefits. 
 ''General Motors is more than just a symbol of American industry,'' said Gary N. Chaison, professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. ''It envelops the towns where it operates, and people become dependent on it in those towns.'' 
 Three of those people are Mr. Lollar, a retired G.M. engineer, and his two brothers, Charles, 72, and John, 74, who are also retired from G.M. 
 Together, they share 112 years of collective G.M. experience, years that have been made comfortable by one of the richest retirement plans offered to working Americans.
 But earlier this month, G.M. told its retired salaried employees and their family members that it planned to cap its health care expenses at the same level as in 2005. 
 It told them that if costs rise, as they are now at a rate of 9 to 10 percent a year, they could expect to pay more for everything from dental and vision care to prescription drugs and doctors' visits, with the full details to come later this year. Medicare could make up some of the difference for older retirees. (G.M. reached an agreement last year with the U.A.W. on a plan that would make modest cuts in hourly workers' medical coverage. The plan still requires court approval.) 
 ''You just take it day by day,'' John Lollar said. ''I just hope my benefits last longer than I do.''
 In Anderson, St. John's Medical Center, the city's biggest hospital, is already bracing for the impact of the changes. Over the past two years, 15 to 20 percent of its patients at any one time were G.M. retirees, a spokeswoman said last week. 
 At Community Medical Center, the other major hospital, 14 percent of the patients last year were retired from G.M. 
 Iva Hazelbaker, 96, who retired from her job on an assembly line 35 years ago, said that without G.M., ''we'd be in a heck of a mess.'' 
 Ms. Hazelbaker, who walks with a cane but has a sprightly manner, does not see a very bright future for Anderson, her home for 40 years. ''Young people don't stand a chance,'' she said. 
 Anderson's unemployment rate is 6.7 percent, near its peak for the last ten years and well above the national average of 4.7 percent. Even so, the figure is misleading, said Patrick Barkey, the director of economic and policy studies at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., because many people here stopped looking for work long ago and are not captured in the numbers. 
 ''I think it masks the state of the economy and understates the degree to which the job picture has worsened,'' Mr. Barkey said.
 Across the country, about 80 other communities have lost more than a third of their auto manufacturing jobs in the last ten years. 
 A visit to Anderson, now a stripped-down shell of its former self, offers perhaps the starkest example of the damage that plant closings can do. Reminders of the once-mighty auto industry are everywhere: abandoned plants, a ghostly downtown and residents who speak with bewilderment and frustration about what has happened to the auto business.
 Sharon Boone, 60, followed in her father's footsteps and started working at G.M. when she was 23, building ignition parts on an assembly line. She was eligible for a full retirement package after 30 years with the company, so she left in 1999.
 Standing in the kitchen of the United Automobile Workers Local 662 hall, she pointed out an aerial photograph of Anderson from 1973. Parking lots around a dozen factories were jammed with hundreds of cars, creating a vibrant city within a city.
 G.M.'s operations were ''so big we even had our own water-treatment plant,'' Ms. Boone said. ''Now the jobs aren't here, and the money isn't here.''
 Along with once being the country's biggest employer until it was passed by Wal-Mart in the 1990's, G.M. was a powerhouse when it came to benefits. 
 And even though G.M. stopped offering retiree health care coverage to new workers 13 years ago, it still covers 679,000 retirees, their spouses and eligible dependents -- on top of the coverage it gives to 435,000 active workers. This costs the company an average of $5,000 a year per recipient. 
 Given the sheer number of people who will be affected, the impact of the company's health care changes will run far beyond those of steel makers, retailers, railroads and airlines that have already eliminated or trimmed the benefits that their workers enjoyed.
 Earlier this month, G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, expressed sympathy for those faced with paying more for their coverage. ''When these benefits were conceived decades ago, no one could have foreseen the explosive cost inflation that we have been experiencing in recent years,'' Mr. Wagoner said. 
 Anderson once ranked right behind Flint, Mich., where one out of every two people worked for G.M. at the company's peak in 1978, as the city with the largest concentration of G.M. operations. 
 Back then, G.M. employed 22,000 people in Anderson making everything from headlights to horns; now only 2,600 jobs are left at a pair of auto parts plants, one of them owned by Delphi, which is operating in bankruptcy protection. The other is the Guide Corporation, a headlight and tail light maker that was once a unit of G.M. and is now for sale. Analysts have said the Delphi plant could soon be closed or sold. 
 Across the street from what was once a vast G.M. manufacturing complex on Anderson's industrial east side is the former White Corner bar, one of Anderson's most storied factory taverns. Now called Stanley's, it is still open for business, but patrons are hard to come by.
 ''You used to have to wait for someone to get up to get a seat,'' Naomi Scales, the 69-year-old daytime bartender, said one recent afternoon as a lone customer sat in the back of the bar, sipping a soda. ''It's just not fun anymore.''
 The city's dependence on retiree income is a major concern for the mayor, Kevin S. Smith, who said Anderson must attract new jobs if it is to survive. That is why he has gone as far as Japan and is planning a trip to China to look for investors, armed with multilingual business cards.
 ''We realize those retiree pensions will not be here in the coming years,'' Mr. Smith said. ''That's why it's important that we are involved in new job creation that will employ the younger people now, too, and keep them in our community.''
 Yet there were few young people at the tables of the MCL Cafeteria last week. Its manager, Dan Cantrell, said about a third of his business came from G.M. retirees like the Lollar brothers. 
 With specials like a $4.49 all-you-care-to-eat fish fry on Fridays, the MCL is a favorite of Anderson's elderly, who receive a 10 percent discount in the afternoon.
 Their spending is ''still a lot of the economy,'' Mr. Cantrell said, referring to the retirees. 
 And Anderson can never hope to find anything as big, or as generous, as G.M. to provide its economic backbone. ''There's not really another major manufacturing plant, anything, that could supplement a city's income the way G.M. did -- and still does,'' Mr. Cantrell said.
 Eventually, the retirees whose G.M. benefits are helping to prop up this place will be gone as well. As Jesse Lollar, the retired G.M. engineer, put it: ''We're going to turn the lights off when we leave.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, lively Meridian Street and the Paramount Theater in downtown Anderson in 1951. At right, the same street, mostly deserted, this month. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)
(Photo by Anderson Public Library)
 A closed plant in Anderson, where 10,000 G.M. retirees and their dependents still live. At its peak, one in three residents worked for G.M. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. A12)Chart/Map: ''Taking the Hits''Domestic automakers have laid off workers and closed plants around the country as their market share has declined. Most of the staff reductions have been in the Midwest.Flint, Mich.AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 15,040AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 23.620Warren-Farmington Hills-Troy, Mich.AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 78,380AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 12,060DetroitAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 56,340AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 9,220BuffaloAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 7,360AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 8,500Lansing, Mich.AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 9,000AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 8,440ClevelandAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 18,200AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 7,320Los AngelesAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 11,810AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 5,670Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, OhioAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 5,580AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 5,370Dayton, OhioAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 15,110AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 5,280IndianapolisAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 13,520AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 4,960PhoenixAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 2,580AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 4,800Ann Arbor, Mich.AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 11,320AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 4,540New YorkAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 2,760AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 3,960RochesterAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 4,530AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 3,640Wilmington, Del.AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 1,040AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 3,510Saginaw, Mich.AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 6,460AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 3,140Anderson, Ind.AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 2,540AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 3,000BaltimoreAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 2,670AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 2,960Springfield, OhioAUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 3,120AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 2,950Rockford, Ill.AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT, 2005: 3,940AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING JOBS LOST, 1995-2005: 2,560Map of the United States highlighting Automobile Manufacturing Job Losses, 1995-2005.Alaska and Hawaii are not shown because they have few auto industry jobs.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics via Moody's Economy.com)(pg. A12)Map of Indiana highlighting Anderson: Anderson's population has fallen to 58,000, from 70,000 in 1970. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); DENTISTRY (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); RETAILERS (52%) Automobiles; Fringe Benefits; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Labor; Shutdowns (Institutional); Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (59%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (52%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Anderson (Ind); Midwestern States

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



449 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Suozzi Takes Back Seat To Spitzer At Gathering

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
The church was filled with members of the Black and Puerto Rican Legislative Caucus, and Attorney General Eliot Spitzer sat at the center of the altar, right next to the minister. When the time came to recognize the elected officials, State Senator Malcolm Smith of Queens introduced the attorney general as ''Governor Spitzer,'' which received spirited applause. 
 The man expected to challenge Mr. Spitzer for the Democratic nomination for governor, Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, had to settle for a seat in the front pew on Sunday, alongside many other elected officials. It was not the only time during the weekend gathering that Mr. Suozzi appeared to fall outside the circle of influence. 
Mr. Suozzi's aides noted that he had been told that he could not speak on a panel discussing economic development, though he had spoken on similar panels at the caucus gathering for several years. And after being told there was no room for his reception at the conference hotel, where other candidates were campaigning, Mr. Suozzi held one at a restaurant across the street.
 To some, this only helped cultivate the outsider image Mr. Suozzi has tried to perpetuate. For others, including a vast majority of black and Latino lawmakers attending the event, it confirmed what they already believed -- that Mr. Spitzer would have no problem winning the Democratic primary.
 ''There's not even another candidate out there right now, so what's the question?'' said the caucus chairman, Adriano Espaillat, a Manhattan assemblyman who has endorsed Mr. Spitzer. 
 Assemblyman J. Gary Pretlow, the chairman of Association of Black and Puerto Rican Legislators, a nonprofit organization that sponsored the weekend gathering, denied any effort to exclude Mr. Suozzi from any activities and said he resented the allegation even being made. If there was no room for Mr. Suozzi's reception, Mr. Pretlow said, it was simply because the rooms were booked. Mr. Smith, who organized the economic development panel, said that only mayors were invited to speak this year. 
 Mr. Suozzi declined to comment about the matter, but Kimberly Devlin, his top political adviser, said she found the changes ''suspect.''
 ''For all these years he's spoken, legitimately so, and he's held a reception at the hotel,'' Ms. Devlin said, adding, ''It's never frustrating to hear when he's not included in the insiders' club.'' 
 Nobody here accused Mr. Suozzi of a lack of effort. He arrived on Friday, the first day of the conference, and worked the cocktail parties and receptions. About 100 people attended his reception, but no top elected officials were there. 
 ''There's no question I'm not going to have the establishment with me,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''I'll have to do it by the same way I did it today, by being with the regular people. There are 5,000 regular people here, and they're very interested in the things I have to say as a government reformer.'' 
 Mr. Suozzi left before a black-tie event Sunday night, to attend an engagement in Nassau County. In the afternoon, as other candidates held receptions at the Crowne Plaza Hotel, he gathered with a film crew in front of the Capitol steps, apparently making a campaign commercial. 
 ''His plan is to say that he's an outsider because he can go out there and say, 'See, I'm not with those people,' '' said Mr. Pretlow, a Westchester Democrat. ''But he will be badly beaten.'' 
 In some ways, Mr. Spitzer was simply reaping the benefits of choosing a running mate as lieutenant governor who came from the ranks of the black and Puerto Rican caucus, David A. Paterson, a state senator from Harlem. 
 ''There's a sense that now we can have a seat at the table,'' said Mr. Paterson, who sat on the other side of the minister at the Wilborn Temple Church of God in Christ.
 Both Mr. Paterson and Mr. Spitzer spoke to the gathering on Sunday night. Mr. Spitzer said he was undaunted by the prospect of a primary race with Mr. Suozzi and said he was receiving a ''spectacular'' reception from caucus members. 
 ''We're coming out here talking about the same things we've always spoken about, the values that people care about,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''David is an icon in this party and the fact that he and I are joined together certainly speaks volumes about the issues we will take to the public.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%) Primaries

ORGANIZATION: Black and Puerto Rican Legislative Caucus (NY)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) Jennifer Medina; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



450 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL SUSPENDS TAX MONEY FLOW TO PALESTINIANS

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Greg Myre contributed reporting from Gaza City for this article.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
The Israeli cabinet decided Sunday to immediately freeze the transfer of about $50 million a month in tax and customs receipts due to the Palestinian Authority, arguing that the swearing in of a Hamas-dominated legislature on Saturday meant that the Palestinians were now led by the militant group. 
 ''It is clear that in the light of the Hamas majority in the parliament and the instructions to form a new government that were given to the head of Hamas, the Palestinian Authority is in practice becoming a terrorist authority,'' Ehud Olmert, the acting prime minister, told his cabinet. ''The state of Israel will not agree to this.''
 Although the cabinet decided to hold back on other penalties it had been considering, its move to withhold the receipts immediately put it at odds with its main ally, the United States, and the rest of the so-called quartet -- the European Union, Russia and the United Nations -- that has been promoting peace efforts between Israel and the Palestinians. 
 The quartet has said that its financing for the Palestinian Authority will continue until a new Hamas-led government is in place, a process that could take five weeks or longer. Even as Israel acted to cut off money to the Palestinians, the quartet's representative, James D. Wolfensohn, was in the Middle East talking with Arab countries in the Persian Gulf region to try to raise money for the Palestinian Authority until Hamas fully takes over the government.
 The State Department said it would have no comment on the Israeli decision.
 The Israeli move means that Mr. Olmert, in the midst of an election campaign, will not have to transfer customs and taxes for February to the Palestinians. He was sharply criticized from the right for having transferred the January payment, and if he had agreed to the quartet's timetable, he might even have had to transfer the payment due for March.
 The Israeli move means that the immediate shortfall of the functionally bankrupt Palestinian Authority will grow from what had been about $60 million a month of its budget to about $110 million. The budget largely goes to pay 135,000 workers, including about 58,000 in the security services. The salary situation has already become critical, with many members of the security services staging armed demonstrations in the past few weeks to demand their pay. 
 Hamas says it will seek economies and other aid from the Muslim world, including Iran, to ease the budget situation.
 In Gaza City, the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, said the Palestinians were already in a financial crisis. ''Unfortunately, the pressures have begun and the support and the aid started to decrease,'' he said. ''Therefore we are currently in a financial crisis, and we hope to overcome it month by month.''
 Mr. Abbas went to Gaza City to meet Monday with Ismail Haniya, 42, whom Hamas confirmed would be its choice for prime minister, to ask him to form a government. Once Mr. Haniya accepts the charge, he will have five weeks to form a government, though he says he will need less time than that.
 On Saturday, Mr. Abbas, in a speech to the new parliament, said he expected a new government to accept previous agreements with Israel and to support negotiations with it -- positions Hamas rejects. He did not specifically require an explicit recognition of Israel. Hamas is expected to move slowly for now, leaving relations with Israel in the hands of Mr. Abbas and the Palestine Liberation Organization.
 ''We will start a dialogue with President Abbas and the other factions,'' Mr. Haniya said in remarks broadcast on Al Jazeera, the Arab satellite channel. He also criticized Israel's new penalties against the Palestinians, calling them ''part of the continued Israeli aggression against the Palestinian people.''
 The Israeli cabinet decided to hold back for now on other penalties that would have further serious effects on Palestinian life, such as preventing Palestinian workers from entering Israel or making it more difficult for Palestinian goods to be transported into Israel. Instead, the cabinet said it would urge the international community to refrain from all financial assistance to the Palestinian Authority except for relief aid, would seek to prevent any new shipments of arms or equipment to the Palestinian security services, and would ''increase security checks'' at crossings between Israel and Gaza.
 ''These are measured and graduated responses to the swearing in of a Hamas legislature,'' said Raanan Gissin, an Israeli spokesman. ''The point is to leave some ammunition in the magazine and give Hamas and the Palestinians the chance to assess the consequences of failing to meet the international community's demands.''
 Israel and the quartet have threatened to isolate Hamas and cut back aid to the Palestinian Authority unless a new government complies with three conditions: recognizing Israel's right to exist, forswearing violence and accepting previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements, including the 1993 Oslo accords, which are predicated on negotiations with Israel leading to a permanent two-state solution.
 Hamas rejects those conditions, but is seeking wording to satisfy at least part of the world community, a senior Western diplomat said.
 But Mr. Olmert, in the middle of an election campaign, listed a much harsher version of those conditions than appears in the quartet's Jan. 30 statement of them. Mr. Olmert said relations with the Palestinians will be downgraded and receipts withheld unless Hamas ''fully accepts the principles that the international community has presented to it.'' He listed the principles as ''recognition of the state of Israel and abrogation of the Hamas covenant, the renunciation of terrorism and the dismantling of terrorist infrastructures (by adopting the road map and accepting its principles), and recognizing all understandings and agreements between Israel and the Palestinians.''
 But the quartet statement did not mention Hamas, let alone of any need for it to abrogate its covenant. The statement said, ''It is the view of the quartet that all members of a future Palestinian government must be committed to nonviolence, recognition of Israel and acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the road map.''
 Mr. Olmert's version appeared to be an effort to talk tough, even as some members of the quartet are beginning to discuss whether a Hamas acceptance in principle of a 2002 Arab peace proposal, long rejected by Israel, would be enough be considered a recognition of Israel. 
 The 2002 proposal says that if Israel agrees to return to boundaries before the 1967 war, accepts a sovereign Palestinian state in the rest of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital, and finds a '''just solution'' to the Palestinian refugee question, then Arab states will ''consider the Arab-Israeli conflict ended, and enter into a peace agreement with Israel, and provide security for all the states of the region.'' 
 The senior diplomat speculated that if Hamas offered a longer truce and folded its military wing into the Palestinian security services, some in the international community, in particular some European countries, might give Hamas the benefit of the doubt in the name of preserving ties with the Palestinians and providing aid to an already poor population.
 Alvaro de Soto, the United Nations representative to the quartet and Kofi Annan's representative to the Palestinian Authority, said in an interview that the Israelis needed ''to give it a chance -- you may be wrong'' about the consequences of a Hamas victory.
 ''We've said that the review of foreign assistance will happen in view of the commitments of the new government,'' he said. ''Let's wait and see when there's a government in place and a program that's approved by the legislature. Anything before that is premature. In fact, now is the time to influence them to move in the right direction.'' 
 ''We want to avoid massive punishment of the Palestinian people,'' Mr. de Soto said. ''There's a plastic moment here, and the outcome is not predetermined.''
 It is not clear whether Mr. Abbas and Mr. Haniya, in their talks, will be able to bridge their fundamental differences. But Sadi Krunze, a former Fatah cabinet minister, praised Mr. Haniya. ''Haniya is not close-minded,'' Mr. Krunze said. ''He can work with all the factions, and he can cooperate with the president.''
 Israel has killed several senior Hamas leaders in recent years, and Mr. Haniya survived an Israeli airstrike three years ago on a meeting attended by top figures in the group.
 Mr. Haniya, a father of 12, lives in Gaza City's Beach Refugee Camp, where he was born. His three-story home, among the other cinderblock houses in the camp, is also his office.
 He has a degree in Arabic literature from the Islamic University in Gaza City and was a dean there for many years. Israel arrested him several times in the late 1980's and early 1990's, and he was deported to Lebanon in 1992 with other Hamas members, but returned to Gaza a year later. In 1998, he took charge of the office of Sheik Ahmed Yassin, whom Israel killed in 2004.
 On Sunday, an Israeli airstrike killed two Palestinians who Israel said were planting a bomb along the perimeter fence of the Gaza Strip, near Khan Yunis in the south.
 In the West Bank, Israeli forces fatally shot two Palestinians in the Balata camp in Nablus. Palestinians said the men were throwing stones at troops; the Israeli Army said they were planting bombs. [Early on Monday, Israeli forces in Nablus fatally shot a senior member of Islamic Jihad, The Associated Press quoted Palestinians as saying. The Israeli military said, according to initial reports, that Israeli soldiers had opened fire on armed Palestinians, killing a Fatah militant.] 
 Three Palestinian teenagers from Bethlehem were arrested en route to Jerusalem carrying a pipe bomb, knives and homemade grenades. They told the police that they had been sent on behalf of Islamic Jihad.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Palestinians carried Balil al-Najar, 19, who was killed yesterday as an Israeli plane attacked men laying a bomb near the Gaza-Israel border. (Photo by Hatem Moussa/Associated Press)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); PEACE PROCESS (54%) Palestinians; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) Palestinian Authority; United Nations; Hamas

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%) Steven Erlanger

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (54%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (74%) Israel; European Union; Russia; Iran; Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006



451 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Funds Find Returns In Making Small Loans

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
On a summer day in 2003, Anthony DiMartino was helping pour concrete on a construction job in Manhattan when he tripped on a cable sticking out of the ground and fell, injuring himself. While the operations on Mr. DiMartino's back and knee were mostly covered by insurance, other bills piled up as a lawsuit against Consolidated Edison, which he says did not properly bury the cable, made its way through the courts.
 So Mr. DiMartino recently visited a small finance company in Brooklyn; a few days later, the company, LawCash, advanced him $6,000. What Mr. DiMartino did not know was that he had another benefactor: SageCrest, a $1 billion hedge fund in Connecticut, which has provided financing to LawCash.
On the surface, LawCash looks like a risky venture for SageCrest. If Mr. DiMartino receives a settlement, LawCash will get its money back, plus 30 percent interest. But if there is no settlement, Mr. DiMartino will not pay back a dime. (Con Ed declined to comment on the litigation.) 
 Indeed, no collateral backs any of the advances LawCash makes. Lawsuits and claims can easily drag on for years, which means there can be a huge time lag before payment is received. And if there is no settlement, there is no repayment of the original advance or interest. 
 Yet SageCrest is not the only hedge fund in this business. So why are hedge funds -- supposedly the sophisticated money, making bold, broad bets -- rushing into lending? 
 Part of the answer is that while interest rates are low, hedge funds are able to lend money at sky-high rates. SageCrest, for example, charges LawCash 16 percent annually for what it borrows. But the trend also reflects the fact that as some 8,000 hedge funds look for ways to put their billions of dollars to work, they are pushing further into uncharted territories in search of high returns.
 ''Hedge funds seem to be sticking their nose into just about everything these days,'' said Charles M. Roame, managing principal of Tiburon Strategic Advisors, a San Francisco management consultant to financial services companies. ''They're in every crazy asset class you can think of'' including bottles of wine, paintings and coin collections, he said. ''The esoteric-ness of the alternative investments just keeps getting more and more esoteric.''
 Lending, an old and seemingly ho-hum business, is now one of the hottest new investments for hedge funds. The funds are making investments in consumer credit card debt and specialty finance companies, and are going head-to-head with banks to provide loans to small companies and even individuals. 
 ''We have seen phenomenal growth in the last couple of years in hedge funds expanding their horizons to the credit space,'' said Chad Leat, head of global credit markets at Citigroup. ''It wasn't that long ago that they were thought to be long-short equity investors.''
 Besides hoping for a big payoff in these types of loans, hedge funds are also seeking returns that are not related to movements in the stock or even bond markets. 
 ''In the past several years, the hedge fund industry has undergone dynamic changes where managers are seeking to utilize strategies which do not correlate to traditional market gyrations,'' said Ron Geffner, a lawyer at the New York law firm of Sadis & Goldberg. 
 Besides trading weather derivatives and complex life insurance products, some of Mr. Geffner's clients are preparing to start hedge funds that will invest in class-action lawsuits and precious coins.
 The greatest activity by hedge funds has been in the credit business. Last spring, Citadel Investment Group, a $12 billion Chicago-based hedge fund, was part of a group that made a $:275 million loan (about $475 million) to Malcolm Glazer to finance his takeover of the Manchester United soccer club. And in October, Och-Ziff Capital Management and Farallon Capital Management, two hedge funds known for unusual investing, lent $64 million to Pay By Touch, a San Francisco-based company that sells devices to make payments using a fingerprint. 
 ''Pay By Touch has found that hedge funds are a better fit with our capital needs, providing us with both flexibility and lower dilution for our existing investors,'' said Gus Spanos, the company's chief financial officer, in an e-mail message.
 Market participants say the entry of hedge funds has increased the availability of money in the market. As a result, small and midsize companies may have greater access to loans at a time when most big banks have abandoned that market. 
 It is unclear how long this will last. While some hedge funds have long-time horizons for their investments, the majority are known for moving rapidly in and out of sectors as they seek the next great investment idea. And hedge fund investors have the ability to redeem their investments, which could force a hedge fund to exit a business sooner than it would necessarily like to raise money. 
 The more important issue for hedge funds as they venture further out on the risk scale is what types of loans and investments are appropriate. In one case, Citadel and Wells Fargo Foothill got into a legal tangle after making a $60 million loan in 2000 to Jack Abramoff, the lobbyist who has since been indicted, to help him buy SunCruz, a company that operated floating casinos in Florida. When SunCruz went bankrupt and the loan went unpaid, Citadel sued Wells Fargo Foothill, Mr. Abramoff and other parties, claiming it had been defrauded out of its investment. Eventually, the case was settled out of court for an undisclosed amount. 
 Still, the promise of tantalizing returns continues to attract hedge fund money to some of the far-out sectors of lending, like LawCash.
 LawCash, started in the late 1990's with $3 million in equity, is risky and -- like the industry over all -- unprofitable so far, the company's chief executive, said Dennis Shields, and the co-founder, Harvey R. Hirschfeld. From a small, windowless office, where seascape prints hang on the walls and stacks of cans of Dr. Brown's soda line the small kitchen, they said the company advances money only to claimants who have filed personal-injury suits and who have lawyers.
 LawCash's borrowers need no collateral. More than 70 percent of the time, clients need cash to prevent foreclosure on their homes or apartments. If the case is settled, LawCash receives a share of the claim proceeds to cover its principal and its fees. If the individual drops the case, LawCash loses its investment. 
 ''It's a great product for hedge funds,'' said Mr. Shields. ''They can get the yield they need and people benefit from it.''
 While consumers pay high rates for the money -- usually about 24 to 45 percent a year -- Mr. Shields said the company was borrowing money itself at a rate of about 18.5 percent. Hoping to reduce that rate, it struck a deal with SageCrest for a line of credit at 16 percent. SageCrest did not return a call seeking comment.
 It was not LawCash's first dealings with a hedge fund. In 2003 and 2004, LawCash sold a portfolio of $4 million in advances it had already made to clients to Fortress Investment Group, a $5.5 billion hedge fund. Fortress made a 31 percent return on the investment, Mr. Shields claimed. ''We didn't make money,'' he said. ''Fortress made money.'' 
 Fortress declined to comment.
 Mr. Hirschfeld said another hedge fund manager laughed when he heard the size of the loans, suggesting that LawCash call again when it needed $50 million, not $5 million. ''They would give us a loan if we wanted to buy Peru,'' Mr. Hirschfeld said. ''But not $5 million.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); LITIGATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (74%); BONDS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (64%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds; Interest Rates; Credit; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SageCrest (Hedge Fund); LawCrest

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Jenny Anderson; Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



452 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: Touched by Oil, and Hope

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SPANISH LOOKOUT, Belize, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
Near this small Mennonite town carved out of the thick jungle, a farmer dug a shallow water well a few years ago and found a viscous black liquid seeping into the water. Given Belize's disappointing record of oil exploration, stretching back to its years under British rule, nearly everyone shrugged at the story except a stubborn Denver geologist. 
 Now Belize is the newest exporter of oil to the United States, a development that is starting to upend this small country of 280,000 people. A roughneck crew, backed by investors from Ireland and Colorado, struck oil in its first drilling attempt last year.
Their wells, dotting the dairy farms of German-speaking Mennonites who moved here a half-century ago from Canada and Mexico, are producing 2,000 barrels a day of oil similar in quality to the prized low-sulfur crude from the oil fields of West Texas. 
 ''We need some help from fuel prices in this country, but people aren't too happy living near a smelly well,'' Jake Letkeman, the operator of the small Mennonite-controlled electricity plant here, said. ''We're waiting to see how this thing plays out.'' Much of Belize is on tenterhooks regarding the oil and its ramifications, but the small companies behind the discovery, Belize Natural Energy and CHX Energy of Denver, are reveling in their good fortune. Together with other independent companies that have recently struck oil and natural gas in locations once written off, including Paraguay, Syria and Uganda, these entrepreneurs are proving that wildcatting is alive and well. 
 As in Belize, the quantities of oil discovered in these places are relatively small, which partly explains why the largest and richest oil companies, Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Royal Dutch Shell, shun such gambles for larger so-called elephant projects with more promising returns.
 But with oil fetching more than $60 a barrel on world markets, smaller companies are willing to risk just about everything these days in hopes of finding even tiny oil fields. 
 [Oil prices rose to $61.46 Monday in reaction to rebel attacks in Nigeria.] 
 ''There were 50 dry wells drilled in Belize over 50 years until we came along,'' said Susan Morrice, a geologist from Denver. She is the wildcatter behind Belize Natural Energy, a venture she formed with the backing of her husband, the Colorado oil executive Alex Cranberg, and more than 70 small investors from her native Ireland. ''We simply felt we could not fail in our search for oil in such a promising, if neglected, country.'' 
 Ms. Morrice's company has been remarkably swift in turning the discovery into cash. In January, Belize Natural Energy loaded 40,000 barrels onto a barge destined for a refinery in Houston, netting the company about $2 million.
 With other wells planned in Spanish Lookout, it soon expects to be producing 5,000 barrels a day, and some geologists say Belize as a whole may one day produce 50,000 barrels a day. 
 That is a drop in the bucket compared with neighboring Mexico, where daily output is 3.4 million barrels a day. But it is significant for a small country on the margins of the global economy that has long scrounged for enough hard currency to import all its oil.
 Belize imports about 5,000 barrels of oil a day, and gasoline costs nearly $5 a gallon. So the crude in Spanish Lookout has allowed this country to dream of energy independence.
 Still, Belize, known as British Honduras until it was granted autonomy from Britain in 1981, faces some serious obstacles before it becomes anything resembling the Kuwait of Central America. About the same size as nearby El Salvador, it has only 4 percent of that country's population. It also has no refineries or pipelines and, unlike many developing countries, it has no national oil company or even an oil ministry. 
 But Belize does have a hidden asset in a civil servant, Andre Cho, who spends his time in a modest bungalow with linoleum floors and a screen door, in the capital city of Belmopan. 
 ''I've been under a lot of stress lately, man,'' said Mr. Cho, 29, Belize's inspector of petroleum. The phone in Mr. Cho's office, which holds stacks of dog-eared copies of Oil & Gas Journal and British-era geological maps, has been ringing repeatedly in recent weeks with inquiries about drilling licenses from small American and European oil companies. 
 ''We don't want to repeat the mistakes of other oil countries, like Nigeria,'' said Mr. Cho, wearing jeans and a gold earring. He said the government had recently approved his request to hire more staff geologists, as well as a former United Nations consultant from India who specializes in organizing the petroleum industries of poor nations. 
 Despite such moves and the formation in December of a government petroleum advisory board, there is considerable skepticism throughout Belize that the country can develop its oil resources without the corruption and environmental damage that afflict other poor oil-producing countries.
 ''If oil wealth brings millions, even billions, to Belize, who is to say that the wealth will not vanish just the same?'' Amandala, the country's largest-circulation newspaper, said in a recent editorial, citing a string of recent corruption scandals. In one report, government pension funds were said to have been used to pay the foreign obligations of a telecommunications start-up. ''Belizeans,'' the editorial said, ''need to keep their eyes on the oil and the money.'' 
 Much of the tension around the oil discovery is focused on the 7.5 percent royalty that Belize Natural Energy is required to pay the government, which is much less than in other oil-producing countries. (Royalties to Norway for exploration in the North Sea, for instance, are more than 70 percent.)
 Prime Minister Said W. Musa has said the royalty was kept low to provide a strong incentive for companies to explore in a country where oil had never been found before.
 Sheila McCaffrey, a director in Belmopan of Belize Natural Energy, said the government would end up collecting overall taxes of about 30 percent on the oil. That includes the royalty and agreements that give the government a minority stake in the company, along with control of 10 percent of production from the oil wells. 
 The company is also trying to avoid ill will among Belizeans by channeling 1 percent of its revenue to a fund for protecting the country's fragile environment, which is about 40 percent jungle. 
 In Spanish Lookout, no one is waiting to find ways of profiting from the oil. The 1,400 Mennonites in the town still want a small share of the government's royalties to be transferred to them, but many are already using some of the low-sulfur oil by mixing it directly with diesel fuel in their small electricity plant, tractors and pickup trucks. 
 George Remple, the owner of Farmer's Choice Gas, said he had a steady stream of customers dropping in to buy the fuel, which he acquired from Belize Natural Energy for $1.60 a gallon and sold to customers for $1.80. ''As long as the engine isn't too computerized,'' he said, ''it runs fine.''
 Oil here is low in impurities, or ''sweet'' in the parlance of the oil industry, making it relatively easy to process into fuel. So Belize Natural Energy, according to Ms. McCaffrey, plans to import a small plant that would enable it to produce diesel fuel from crude locally, which would alleviate the country's need to import some of its refined fuel.
 On the drawing board as well, she said, was a project to use natural gas from the oil wells to fuel electricity plants, which might allow Belize to avoid costly and environmentally controversial hydroelectric dams. Other projects include a pipeline and an export terminal on thecoast. 
 These ambitious plans, though, hinge on a smooth political environment in Belize. The United States is transferring its embassy from hurricane-battered Belize City to Belmopan, the centrally planned capital in the interior, laid out by the British in the 1970's, that resembles a small Brasilia. The American embassy complex, under construction, would dwarf the capital's other structures, including federal buildings designed along Mayan temple motifs. 
 The most acute political risk for Belize's nascent oil industry may be a long-festering territorial dispute with neighboring Guatemala, the most densely populated country in Central America and home to 12 million people. Guatemala waited until 1992 to recognize Belize's independence officially.
 Generations of Guatemalans have been taught in school that ''Belice es nuestro,'' or ''Belize is ours,'' a slogan that might acquire new resonance if abundant oil is found in Belize. 
 Representatives of the two countries agreed this month to begin negotiations to resolve territorial claims, but areas of Belize where oil exploration is taking place or planned remain squarely in land still claimed by Guatemala. Spanish Lookout is just a 20-minute drive from the Guatemalan border, where migrants seeking available land, many of them Maya Indians, have settled. 
 Irma Uck, a shopkeeper at the border crossing of Benque Viejo del Carmen, and who said her father was Guatemalan, said the oil discovery would add to tension in the area.
 ''Guatemala has a little oil, but they want more,'' Ms. Uck, 52, said. ''Everyone here has heard that Belize now has oil.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jake Letkeman filling a generator tank with local oil. Far right, Mennonite children at play in a schoolyard.
A Mennonite boy riding past an oil well that is near his home in Spanish Lookout. The town is producing 2,000 barrels a day of low-sulfur crude. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Oil-drilling equipment traveling along roads through dairy farms, which support the Mennonite community. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Map of Belize highlighting Spanish Lookout: Four oil wells are in Spanish Lookout
 Belmopan is the capital. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); DAIRY FARMING (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); POWER PLANTS (66%); WATER WELL DRILLING (58%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Mennonite Churches; Production; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Belize Natural Energy; CHX Energy

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%)

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%) BELIZE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (90%); NIGERIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); SYRIA (79%) Belize; Ireland ; Colorado; Spanish Outlook (Belize); Canada; Mexico; Texas

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



453 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: States Curbing Right to Seize Private Homes

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
In a rare display of unanimity that cuts across partisan and geographic lines, lawmakers in virtually every statehouse across the country are advancing bills and constitutional amendments to limit use of the government's power of eminent domain to seize private property for economic development purposes.
 The measures are in direct response to the United States Supreme Court's 5-to-4 decision last June in a landmark property rights case from Connecticut, upholding the authority of the City of New London to condemn homes in an aging neighborhood to make way for a private development of offices, condominiums and a hotel. It was a decision that one justice, who had written for the majority, later all but apologized for.
The reaction from the states was swift and heated. Within weeks of the court's decision, Texas, Alabama and Delaware passed bills by overwhelming bipartisan margins limiting the right of local governments to seize property and turn it over to private developers. Since then, lawmakers in three dozen other states have proposed similar restrictions and more are on the way, according to experts who track the issue. 
 The National League of Cities, which supports the use of eminent domain as what it calls a necessary tool of urban development, has identified the issue as the most crucial facing local governments this year. The league has called upon mayors and other local officials to lobby Congress and state legislators to try to stop the avalanche of bills to limit the power of government to take private property for presumed public good.
 The issue is not whether governments can condemn private property to build a public amenity like a road, a school or a sewage treatment plant. That power is explicit in the takings clause of the Fifth Amendment, provided that ''just compensation'' is paid. The conflict arises over government actions to seize private homes or businesses as part of a redevelopment project that at least partly benefits a private party like a retail store, an apartment complex or a football stadium. 
 ''It's open season on eminent domain,'' said Larry Morandi, a land-use specialist at the National Conference of State Legislatures. ''Bills are being pushed by Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives, and they're passing by huge margins.''
 Seldom has a Supreme Court decision sparked such an immediate legislative reaction, and one that scrambles the usual partisan lines. Condemnation of the ruling came from black lawmakers representing distressed urban districts, from suburbanites and from Western property-rights absolutists who rarely see eye to eye on anything. Lawmakers from Maine to California have introduced dozens of bills in reaction to the ruling, most of them saying that government should never seize private homes or businesses solely to benefit a private developer. 
 The Supreme Court seemed to invite such a response in its narrowly written ruling in the case, Kelo v. City of New London. Justice John Paul Stevens, writing for the majority, expressed sympathy for the displaced homeowners and said that the ''necessity and wisdom'' of the use of eminent domain were issues of legitimate debate. And, he added, ''We emphasize that nothing in our opinion precludes any state from placing further restrictions on its exercise of the takings power.''
 Two months after the ruling, addressing a bar association meeting, Justice Stevens called it ''unwise'' and said he would have opposed it had he been a legislator and not a federal judge bound by precedent.
 Plenty of legislators took the hint.
 The issue was one of the first raised when Connecticut lawmakers returned to session early this month. There are bills pending in the Legislature to impose new restrictions on the use of eminent domain by local governments and to assure that displaced businesses and homeowners receive fair compensation.
 (The New London project is essentially delayed, even after the Supreme Court go-ahead, because of contractual disputes and an unwillingness to forcibly remove the homeowners who sued to save their properties.)
 In the New Jersey Legislature, Senator Nia H. Gill, a Democrat from Montclair who is chairwoman of the Commerce Committee, proposed a bill to outlaw the use of eminent domain to condemn residential property that is not completely run down to make room for a redevelopment project. The bill, which is pending, would require public hearings before any taking of private property to benefit a private project. 
 In New York, State Senator John A. DeFrancisco, a Republican, has proposed a measure similar to one in other states that would remove the right to exercise condemnation power from unelected bodies like an urban redevelopment authority or an industrial development agency. 
 Texas was one of the first states to act after the Kelo ruling, taking up the issue in a special legislative session that was supposed to focus solely on education. Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, signed a bill on Sept. 1 that prohibits use of eminent domain to benefit a private party, with certain exceptions. Among those exceptions is the condemnation of homes to make way for a new stadium for the Dallas Cowboys.
 The sponsor of the Texas measure, Senator Kyle Janek, Republican of Houston, said the state was weighing an amendment to cement the eminent domain restrictions, but that process can take years. He sponsored his bill, he said, because ''We wanted something in place quickly that the governor could sign and would take immediate effect.''
 The bill could affect a huge highway project now in the planning stages known as the Trans-Texas Corridor, a public-private toll road and rail project that would require the taking of large swaths of privately owned land.
 There are six proposed laws and five constitutional amendments before the California Legislature, as well as several proposed citizen initiatives to curb the eminent domain power. The bills are supported by, among others, the California Farm Bureau Federation, which fears that the Kelo ruling will empower cities to gobble up more farmland to build subdivisions and strip malls.
 The lobbyist for California's local economic development agencies said the ruling and the resultant legislation had been a nightmare.
 ''My life hasn't been the same since June 23, 2005,'' said the lobbyist, John F. Shirey, executive director of the California Redevelopment Association, referring to the date the Supreme Court handed down the ruling. The group represents 350 local redevelopment authorities around California and believes such agencies need the eminent domain power to rebuild distressed cities.
 Ohio's legislature, acting swiftly and unanimously after the Kelo decision, declared a moratorium on all government takings until the end of 2006. The state has created a 25-member bipartisan panel to study the issue and make recommendations for changes, if necessary, in Ohio's eminent domain statutes. The sponsor of the moratorium measure, Senator Timothy J. Grendell, a Republican lawyer who specializes in property rights cases, noted that the Ohio Supreme Court was now weighing a potentially crucial eminent domain case involving the city of Norwood, a suburb of Cincinnati.
 In that case, city officials have approved a plan to condemn about 60 homes to make way for an upscale office and retail complex. The homeowners are represented by lawyers from the Institute of Justice, a public interest law firm that litigates against what it calls eminent domain abuse and that represented the plaintiffs in the New London case.
 Scott G. Bullock of the Institute for Justice described the Norwood case as an important test of property rights law in the post-Kelo era, but would not predict how the Ohio court would rule. He saidhe hoped to take another case before the Supreme Court in the next few years to determine whether the courts can curb eminent domain power further, even as state legislatures act on their own.
 Mr. Bullock said he expected municipal officials and redevelopment authorities to try to fight the wave of eminent domain legislation by offering cosmetic changes to existing law, for example by requiring an extra hearing or an economic impact statement. But he said that major changes were coming in how the takings power of government is used.
 ''Our opposition to eminent domain is not across the board,'' he said. ''It has an important but limited role in government planning and the building of roads, parks and public buildings. What we oppose is eminent domain abuse for private development, and we are encouraging legislators to curtail it.''
 More neutral observers expressed concern that state officials, in their zeal to protect homeowners and small businesses, would handcuff local governments that are trying to revitalize dying cities and fill in blighted areas with projects that produce tax revenues and jobs.
 ''It's fair to say that many states are on the verge of seriously overreacting to the Kelo decision,'' said John D. Echeverria, executive director of the Georgetown Environmental Law and Policy Institute and an authority on land-use policy. ''The danger is that some legislators are going to attempt to destroy what is a significant and sometimes painful but essential government power. The extremist position is a prescription for economic decline for many metropolitan areas around the county.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (92%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); CITIES (91%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); APPEALS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%) Eminent Domain; States (US); Law and Legislation; Urban Areas; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Constitutional Amendments; Local Government; Eminent Domain; Mayors

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (82%) Supreme Court (US); National League of Cities

PERSON: John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (72%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New London (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



454 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Possible German Role In Man's Seizure by U.S.
German authorities are investigating whether Germany was a silent partner of the United States in the abduction of Khaled el-Masri, a German citizen who was mistakenly held in an American prison in Afghanistan. Germany has been openly critical of the actions of the United States in the abduction. A1

No U.S. Help for Sectarian Iraq 

The American ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, issued a warning about the need for Iraq's political factions to come together, hinting for the first time that the United States would not support public institutions plagued by sectarian agendas. A1

Iran-Russia Talks Inconclusive
A Russian effort to forge a compromise over Iran's nuclear program stalled after talks in the Kremlin ended inconclusively. Negotiators for both countries agreed to hold new talks but did not announce when or where they would take place. A3

Hope Wanes at Mexican Mine
Hope of rescuing 65 coal miners trapped underground in Mexico began to fade as mine officials reported that rescuers had tunneled through about 400 yards of rubble but still had not been able to excavate the tunnels leading to the men. A10

Hamas Seeks Broader Support
While an Israeli military helicopter circled overhead, Hamas opened talks with other militant factions on forming the new Palestinian government, a process expected to take at least two weeks. A11

Cartoon Protests Close Paper
The owner of the small Russian weekly, Our Region, that printed a composite of the Danish cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammed said that he would close the newspaper. His was the second newspaper to be shut down in Russia in the wake of international Islamic protests over the cartoons. A10

Philippines Tragedy Avoidable
According to official records, the government of the Philippines knew the village where more than 1,000 people may have died in a landslide was in danger. Officials and environmental groups said problems from government corruption to a lack of funds allowed it to become a large-scale human tragedy. A3

In Britain, a Hint of Change
After years of talk and rumor, denial and debate, Prime Minister Tony Blair's transfer of power to Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, may actually have begun, but stealthily. Nothing has been formally declared, but recent public appearances by Mr. Brown have offered clues that they are a political pair looking toward the next election. A9

Containing Avian Flu in India
Shrouded in blue protective suits, hundreds of government workers labored to meet a deadline to slaughter 130, 000 birds in poultry farms in western Maharashtra State in India, where possible symptoms of avian influenza have been reported in humans. A8

NATIONAL A12-17

Limiting Government's Right to Seize Homes
In a rare display of unanimity that cuts across partisan and geographic lines, lawmakers in virtually every statehouse are advancing bills and constitutional amendments to limit use of the government's power of eminent domain to seize private property for economic development purposes. A1

Reclassifying Public Material
In a seven-year-old secret program at the National Archives, intelligence agencies have removed from public access thousands of historical documents that had been available for years, including some already published by the State Department and others photocopied years ago by private historians. A1

Measuring Medical Care Quality
The American Medical Association has signed an agreement with Congress promising to develop more than 100 standard measures of performance, which doctors will report to the federal government in an effort to upgrade the quality of care. The deal comes as the Bush administration tries to link Medicare payment to quality. A12

Rosy Meat Is Not Always Fresh
More and more markets are selling meat in airtight packages treated with a touch of carbon monoxide to help it stay cherry red for weeks. Opponents of the practice say that the processing allows stores to sell meat that is no longer fresh and that consumers will not know meat has spoiled until they open the package at home and smell it. A12

New Hurricane Assistance Plan
With thousands of ruined homeowners in New Orleans watching weeks turn into months without assistance, Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana for the first time unveiled a real package of assistance, proposing to use federal money for loans and grants that aides said would spur rebuilding. A14

Bush Promotes Energy Plan
President Bush promoted his plan to reduce American dependence on foreign oil by using alternative energy sources, but he did not repeat a promise to cut Middle East oil imports that drew complaints from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and was disavowed by his energy secretary. A16

EDUCATION

Professors Overrun With E-Mail
At colleges and universities nationwide, e-mail has made professors much more approachable. But many say it has made them too approachable, erasing boundaries that traditionally kept students at a healthy distance. These days, they say, students seem to view them as constantly available , sending a steady stream of e-mail messages that are too informal or downright inappropriate. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Pataki Joins Opposition To Takeover of Ports
Two Republican governors, including George E. Pataki, joined the growing chorus of criticism of an Arab company's takeover of operations at six major American ports. Both raised the threat of legal action to void contracts in New York City and Baltimore. B1

Meth Among Gay Minorities
A handful of gay advocates are trying to staunch crystal methamphetamine's increasing popularity among black and Hispanic gay men in New York City, a trend that has alarmed city health officials who link the drug to the spread of H.I.V. and other sexually-transmitted diseases. B1

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-8

ARTS E1-12

SMALL BUSINESS G1-14

OBITUARIES C11

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Stem Cells and Cancer
At the heart of every tumor, some researchers believe, lie a handful of aberrant stem cells that maintain the malignant tissue. The idea, if right, could explain some of the problems with current anticancer drugs, and future strategies for developing new ones. F1

Dispelling Doubts on Theory
Two new studies in the journal Nature, one on the ancestry of the kentia palm, a common house plant, and the other about fish in a Nicaraguan lake, are helping to dispel long-held doubts about a theory of evolution that members of a species living side by side can split into two species. F3

Health & Fitness F5

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Oil Prices Rise
Oil prices jumped to $61.46 a barrel on London's ICE Futures exchange after a series of attacks in the Niger Delta cut oil production in the country by 455,000 barrels a day out of a total of about 2.5 million barrels. C1

RadioShack Chief Resigns
David J. Edmondson resigned as the company's chief executive, days after the revelation that he had lied to the company about his education by claiming two college degrees when he had none. C1

Sports Magazine for Sale
Paul G. Allen, one of the founders of Microsoft and owner of two major league sports teams, is seeking a buyer for The Sporting News magazine, which has stood a distant third to Sports Illustrated and ESPN Magazine. C7

Belize Joins the Oil Industry
Belize, the newest exporter of oil to the United States, is producing 2,000 barrels a day of oil, and the Mennonite communities surrounding the wells are on tenterhooks regarding the oil and its ramifications. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: A test for the new justices; playing chicken with bird flu; budget evasions; the safety of aspartame.
Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E9
Weather C12
TV Listings E11

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (73%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (72%); MINE WORKERS (72%); RELIGION (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); COAL MINING (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (63%); INFLUENZA (63%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (60%); POULTRY (60%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



455 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Send In the State Department

BYLINE: By Robert D. Kaplan. 
Robert D. Kaplan is a national correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly and the author of ''Imperial Grunts: The American Military on the Ground.''

DATELINE: Korat Royal Air Force Base, Thailand 

 BODY:
WHATEVER the future holds for Iraq, within a year or two there will be far fewer American troops there, and the debate over whether our military is overstretched may subside. Yet because of a bloody counterinsurgency that no one in the military wants to repeat, Iraq has profoundly affected the Pentagon's deployment strategies as it shifts toward a greater emphasis on the Pacific Rim while still facing a profusion of terrorist-related threats not just in the Middle East but also in Africa and elsewhere.
 ''After Iraq,'' one officer in the Pentagon told me, ''we hope not to be invading a big country for a long time, so we'll be reduced to low-profile raiding, which the military has a very long and venerable tradition of, from the 19th and early 20th centuries.'' This is one aspect of what the Pentagon's new Quadrennial Defense Review means when it speaks of the ''long war.'' 
The military wants to increasingly manage the world through quiet cooperation on one hand, and the use of host-country proxies on the other. At the forefront of this strategy is a combination of training missions with other countries conducted by marines and Army Special Forces, humanitarian efforts by Army civil affairs units, and discreet raids on terrorists in places removed from the headlines. For the military, this is ''soft power,'' because for the most part the methods used are indirect. And when they are direct, few tend to notice, as when our surveillance planes assist local forces in sub-Saharan Africa in the hunting and killing of Salafist terrorists.
 The long war, if smartly executed, can prevent a big war. In spending the last few years embedded with Army, Navy and Marine units, I have learned that the smaller the American military footprint and the less notice it draws, the more effective is the operation. A few hundred Green Berets going after narcoterrorists or Islamic extremists, as I have seen in Colombia and the Philippines, can be effective force multipliers. Ten or twenty thousand troops, as in Afghanistan, can tread water. And 135,000, as in Iraq, constitute a mess.
 The goal from now on is to get into a place fast, before a problem begins to fester, when there is leeway to experiment and thus to make mistakes without suffering a loss of prestige. The way to avoid quagmires is to be engaged in more places, not fewer. Even if Iraq were to dissolve in chaos, this would not lead to a new era of isolationism, at least as far as the American military is concerned, 
 Take the Horn of Africa, a low-profile theater where small American military teams comb a large region and engage in military training and civil affairs projects with local forces as a way to build relationships in advance of a major crisis. Never again should we be in the situation that we were in on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, where there were no intelligence assets on 9/11 because we had closed all our networks the decade before, following the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan.
 Thus the quadrennial review calls for an increase in Army Special Forces of at least 15 percent. The growing emphasis on the Special Operations Command, to which the Marine Corps will for the first time send a detachment later this month, is less the brainchild of Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld than a product of his forceful articulation of a bipartisan ideal, supported vigorously over the years by Democrats like former Senator Sam Nunn and John Kerry. There are even plans to go beyond merely training local forces to actually embedding small numbers of Special Forces and Marine advisers with foreign troops on select combat missions.
 While this is all good planning, there is still a major omission: the civilian -- or non-Defense Department -- piece of it is entirely missing. The longer the war, the less decisive is military technology and what the Army calls ''doctrine.'' The struggle against Al Qaeda and its offshoots will go on for many years after a troop drawdown in Iraq, and in this worldwide struggle the civilian piece associated with the State Department will be a vital, unconventional asset. 
 There is precedent here: the British Colonial Office was, in effect, an interagency office, overseeing not just the military aspects of empire but also civil service, education and the like. No matter how vehemently people deride 19th-century imperialism, the same people often ask why the Americans can't be as smart in the field as the British.
 To wit: a recent month-long visit to Iraq demonstrated to me that the progress the American military has made there in reducing chaos over the past two years is being jeopardized by the absence of public works projects of the kind that soak up male youth unemployment. 
 Young Army and Marine officers have become expert at small-scale projects: setting up neighborhood garbage collection, fixing generators and the like, but such efforts make little dent in the long list of needs in sprawling Iraqi cities. American battalion commanders hear litanies of complaints about the lack of electricity and working sewers and often have no answers except to refer the complainants to the new Iraqi agencies, which barely function. As I saw one village elder tell an Army lieutenant colonel in the Tigris River valley: ''All we ask is that you restore services to the level they were under the previous regime.'' 
 But the military's humanitarian activities around the world generally have to do with immediate relief of natural disasters, and temporary good-will gestures like holding daylong medical clinics, an unstated aim of which is to gather intelligence. Repairing the roads and electrical grid and hospital system of a large country is simply out of its domain. The military in Iraq is near the point where it has done all that it can be expected to do. The years of financial and organizational neglect at the State Department and Agency for International Development is now fundamentally apparent in shot-to-hell cityscapes like Mosul.
 I am not arguing for an emphasis on the State Department over the Pentagon. I am saying that for a worldwide fight against terrorism to be effective, the State Department must become not only as bureaucratically dynamic as the American military, but also as fully integrated with it down to the small unit level. In other words, Agency for International Development officials must work alongside Green Beret teams on the humanitarian side of unconventional war.
 It is no accident that Special Operations Command gets its budget not from the Pentagon, but directly from Congress, and that its bureaucratic flowchart is numbing in its interagency complexity. It was always meant to work organically with the State Department as well as the Pentagon. But this goal has been insufficiently realized beyond PowerPoint briefings at its headquarters in Tampa.
 The long war envisaged by the Quadrennial Defense Review is not a sinister vision but a reflection of reality. Even in the Pacific, where the American military must be prepared for conflicts in Korea and Taiwan, the Chinese are more likely to seek dominance through a growing web of trade and military alliances with longtime allies like Thailand and the Philippines, as well as through terrorist splinter groups in Southeast Asia and its archipelagos, stretching all the way to Oceania.
 The defense review's emphasis on Special Forces is correct; so is its admission that technology is not always the answer. As for integrating a newly robust State Department into this strategy, it is less the Pentagon's responsibilitythan that of the White House and Congress.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Guy Billout)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NAVIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (73%); NARCOTERRORISM (71%); RELIGION (50%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: State Department

PERSON: Robert D Kaplan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFRICA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); THAILAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



456 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Decades Later, Simmering Debate on a Road Heats Up

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: BRYSON CITY, N.C. 

 BODY:
World War II was in its parlous middle years when the federal government took about 100,000 acres from Swain County, N.C., to build a dam and generate more electricity. In return, it promised the county a new road.
 Now the National Park Service, which inherited half the land and all the local bitterness, must decide whether to keep that promise.
Environmentalists are bent on protecting the area where the road would go, the quietest corner of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Descendants of the displaced families say that only a road will right old wrongs. 
 The antiroad forces had the upper hand for years, until 15 words were slipped into federal transportation legislation in 2000, setting aside a modest $16 million for construction of what is called the North Shore Road. The park service then studied the issue and released a draft report in January indicating that the road could cost the government nearly $600 million, depending on the route. 
 Representative Charles H. Taylor, a Republican who represents North Carolina's sparsely populated mountains, was a moving force behind the earmark and says the government's pledge must be fulfilled. He is also chairman of the House appropriations subcommittee that controls the National Park Service budget. 
 Some earmarks are considered boondoggles, others blessings. Most are a bit of both. This earmark, the 75th of 100 in the transportation bill, is no exception. The twist is that it shifts the balance in a dispute that has raged for generations. 
 The park service once opposed the construction but is now taking a neutral stance. 
 Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said in a Feb. 10 letter to Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton that the road would cost ''three times the annual roads budget for the entire National Park Service.'' He added that the road ''would be a waste of money, unnecessary and an environmental disaster.'' 
 Environmental issues were not foremost during the war years. When the Tennessee Valley Authority decided to dam the Little Tennessee River to generate more power for aluminum factories in 1943, tens of thousands of acres of farmland disappeared under the new Fontana Lake. Families and the gravel road connecting them were flooded out. 
 The authority, the state, the National Park Service and Swain County, which continued to pay off bonds for the old road for 30 years after it was underwater, signed an agreement promising the replacement as soon as Congress set aside money. But, aside from an abortive bout of road building 35 years ago, the issue generally stalled. 
 Environmentalists and hikers say any road construction will turn glistening trout streams turbid, raise the risk of landslides and rouse quiet forest slopes with the sound of diesel engines for at least 15 years to come. ''It serves no transportation purpose,'' said Cat McCue, communications director of the Southern Environmental Law Center.
 Local officials have agreed to accept a $52 million payment if one is offered in lieu of the road.
 But for a group of local residents, completion of the North Shore Road is both a matter of economic justice, to bring in tourist money they feel they deserve, and proof that no one can slight them with impunity. 
 The National Park Service report concluded that the road would not constitute ''impairment'' of park resources, even though its construction would have an ''adverse, long-term impact.'' It outlined alternatives but made no recommendation.
 The superintendent of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Dale A. Ditmanson, said in an interview that only after a final choice is made -- to build, not build or build only a portion of the road -- can its full impact be determined. 
 If additional studies then show impairment of the park, the plan for the road could still be scrapped. 
 Last month, Representative Taylor's Web site put up a statement quoting him as saying ''a solemn promise was made to these families by the federal government concerning access to their ancestral gravesites, and that promise should not be broken.'' The 1943 pledge does not mention graves or cemeteries.
 Mr. Taylor, who announced the earmark at the end of the 2000 campaign, is also one of the House's wealthiest members, a multimillionaire who owns banks in Asheville, N.C., and in Ivanovo, Russia. His press secretary did not respond to repeated requests, by telephone, by e-mail and in person, to discuss the history of the controversy. 
 In the 1960's, the road was begun, dead-ending at a tunnel under a rugged hill. The environmental cost, the park service said, was too great. The road was abandoned.
 Until the earmark. Then the park service had to evaluate various options for settling the dispute. 
 For years, the park service forecast the kind of degradation a road would inflict. A 1979 report on the existing 6.2 miles of road said that ''because of the mountainous topography and unstable geological base, landslides were frequent.'' 
 In addition, the construction exposed heavily acidic rock. ''No matter what you do, there's going to be runoff into the stream,'' said Bill Kane of the North Carolina Wildlife Federation. ''Sulfuric acid kills off the fish.''
 D. J. Gerken, a staff lawyer for the Southern Environmental Law Center, said, ''Water quality is at the heart of the issue here.''
 After the earmark, Swain County's five-member commission voted 4 to 1 to accept the proposed financial settlement from the park service should a formal offer be made. Glenn Jones, the chairman of the Swain County commissioners, spoke in an interview of creating an interest-bearing fund to provide annual supplements to its beleaguered budget. 
 But dozens, perhaps hundreds of people in this county of 13,000 feel the contract was with them -- the bought-out, flooded-out, forced-out people from north of the lake. 
 They sport buttons and bumper stickers declaring ''Build the Road.'' They tell their tales of a faithless federal government in letters to the editor and public forums. On cemetery decoration days, they assemble by the dozens and take boats across Fontana Lake, carrying memories and plastic flowers to graveyards hidden in poplars and white pines.
 ''I was born across there,'' said Robert Jones, 72, standing behind a microphone at a recent park service hearing at the high school here. ''My father's buried there, and that's my home place.'' Mr. Jones, who now lives in Robbinsville, added: ''They should fulfill their promise. If I signed a contract with them and walked off, what would they do?''
 Those who want the road see their future, as well as their past, in its completion. Great Smoky Mountains, the nation's most-visited national park, is now reached largely through Gatlinburg, Tenn., which has grown fat and gaudy. 
 ''All the counties in Tennessee are rich, rich, rich,'' said Linda Hogue, a third-grade teacher in Bryson City whose in-laws were displaced when the Fontana Dam was built. ''We don't want a mess like Gatlinburg. But that should be our option.'' 
 The park service study projected that if the most expensive road alternative were built, it would add as many as 488 jobs for the 15 years of construction -- and half that many permanently -- along with $14 million in annual retail sales. The economic impact of the monetary settlement, the report indicated, would be about 10 percent of the full road's.
 But the road's potential gains would come at a cost to the landscape and those who love it. For Dale Teague, a wintertime hiker from Knoxville who recently walked miles through the bare trees with three friends, turning his trail into a road would kill the area's appeal. ''There's beautiful country in there,'' he said, pointing to the tunnel that now marks the road's end. ''A road would ruin it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The North Shore Road in Swain County, N.C., promised by the federal government, was abandoned in the 1960's. Now, residents are speaking out at hearings on whether to finish the road or accept a cash settlement. (Photo by Chris Keane for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Benjamin Porter for The New York Times)Maps of North Carolina and surrounding areas show the proposed roadway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (88%); BUDGETS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); HIKING (72%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%) Roads and Traffic; Electric Light and Power; Dams and Dikes; Roads and Traffic

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (84%) National Park Service

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%)

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (54%) Felicity Barringer; Charles H (Rep) Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Bryson City (NC)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



457 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: To: Professor@University.edu Subject: Why It's All About Me 

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
One student skipped class and then sent the professor an e-mail message asking for copies of her teaching notes. Another did not like her grade, and wrote a petulant message to the professor. Another explained that she was late for a Monday class because she was recovering from drinking too much at a wild weekend party. 
 Jennifer Schultens, an associate professor of mathematics at the University of California, Davis, received this e-mail message last September from a student in her calculus course: ''Should I buy a binder or a subject notebook? Since I'm a freshman, I'm not sure how to shop for school supplies. Would you let me know your recommendations? Thank you!''
At colleges and universities nationwide, e-mail has made professors much more approachable. But many say it has made them too accessible, erasing boundaries that traditionally kept students at a healthy distance. 
 These days, they say, students seem to view them as available around the clock, sending a steady stream of e-mail messages -- from 10 a week to 10 after every class -- that are too informal or downright inappropriate.
 ''The tone that they would take in e-mail was pretty astounding,'' said Michael J. Kessler, an assistant dean and a lecturer in theology at Georgetown University. '' 'I need to know this and you need to tell me right now,' with a familiarity that can sometimes border on imperative.'' 
 He added: ''It's a real fine balance to accommodate what they need and at the same time maintain a level of legitimacy as an instructor and someone who is institutionally authorized to make demands on them, and not the other way round.''
 While once professors may have expected deference, their expertise seems to have become just another service that students, as consumers, are buying. So students may have no fear of giving offense, imposing on the professor's time or even of asking a question that may reflect badly on their own judgment.
 For junior faculty members, the barrage of e-mail has brought new tension into their work lives, some say, as they struggle with how to respond. Their tenure prospects, they realize, may rest in part on student evaluations of their accessibility. 
 The stakes are different for professors today than they were even a decade ago, said Patricia Ewick, chairwoman of the sociology department at Clark University in Massachusetts, explaining that ''students are constantly asked to fill out evaluations of individual faculty.'' Students also frequently post their own evaluations on Web sites like rateyourprofessor.com and describe their impressions of their professors on blogs. 
 Last fall, undergraduate students at Syracuse University set up a group in Facebook.com, an online network for students, and dedicated it to maligning one particular instructor. The students were reprimanded.
 Professor Ewick said 10 students in one class e-mailed her drafts of their papers days before they were due, seeking comments. ''It's all different levels of presumption,'' she said. ''One is that I'll be able to drop everything and read 250 pages two days before I'm going to get 50 of these.'' 
 Kathleen E. Jenkins, a sociology professor at the College of William and Mary in Virginia, said she had even received e-mail requests from students who missed class and wanted copies of her teaching notes.
 Alexandra Lahav, an associate professor of law at the University of Connecticut, said she felt pressured by the e-mail messages. ''I feel sort of responsible, as if I ought to be on call all the time,'' she said.
 Many professors said they were often uncertain how to react. Professor Schultens, who was asked about buying the notebook, said she debated whether to tell the student that this was not a query that should be directed to her, but worried that ''such a message could be pretty scary.'' 
 ''I decided not to respond at all,'' she said.
 Christopher J. Dede, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education who has studied technology in education, said these e-mail messages showed how students no longer deferred to their professors, perhaps because they realized that professors' expertise could rapidly become outdated. 
 ''The deference was probably driven more by the notion that professors were infallible sources of deep knowledge,'' Professor Dede said, and that notion has weakened. 
 Meanwhile, students seem unaware that what they write in e-mail could adversely affect them, Professor Lahav said. She recalled an e-mail message from a student saying that he planned to miss class so he could play with his son. Professor Lahav did not respond.
 ''It's graduate school, he's an adult human being, he's obviously a parent, and it's not my place to tell him how to run his life,'' she said. 
 But such e-mail messages can have consequences, she added. ''Students don't understand that what they say in e-mail can make them seem very unprofessional, and could result in a bad recommendation.'' 
 Still, every professor interviewed emphasized that instant feedback could be invaluable. A question about a lecture or discussion ''is for me an indication of a blind spot, that the student didn't get it,'' said Austin D. Sarat, a professor of political science at Amherst College. 
 College students say that e-mail makes it easier to ask questions and helps them to learn. ''If the only way I could communicate with my professors was by going to their office or calling them, there would be some sort of ranking or prioritization taking place,'' said Cory Merrill, 19, a sophomore at Amherst. ''Is this question worth going over to the office?''
 But student e-mail can go too far, said Robert B. Ahdieh, an associate professor at Emory Law School in Atlanta. He paraphrased some of the comments he had received: ''I think you're covering the material too fast, or I don't think we're using the reading as much as we could in class, or I think it would be helpful if you would summarize what we've covered at the end of class in case we missed anything.''
 Students also use e-mail to criticize one another, Professor Ahdieh said. He paraphrased this comment: ''You're spending too much time with my moron classmates and you ought to be focusing on those of us who are getting the material.''
 Michael Greenstone, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said he once received an e-mail message late one evening from a student who had recently come to the realization that he was gay and was struggling to cope. 
 Professor Greenstone said he eventually helped the student get an appointment with a counselor. ''I don't think we would have had the opportunity to discuss his realization and accompanying feelings without e-mail as an icebreaker,'' he said. 
 A few professors said they had rules for e-mail and told their students how quickly they would respond, how messages should be drafted and what types of messages they would answer. 
 Meg Worley, an assistant professor of English at Pomona College in California, said she told students that they must say thank you after receiving a professor's response to an e-mail message.
 ''One of the rules that I teach my students is, the less powerful person always has to write back,'' Professor Worley said.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about e-mail messages sent by students to their college and university professors misidentified a Web site on which students evaluate teachers. It is ratemyprofessors.com, not rateyourprofessor.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Meg Worley, an assistant professor of English at Pomona College, has rules for student e-mail. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 Jennifer Schultens had a student ask what kind of notebook to buy. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CALCULUS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%); SOCIOLOGY (60%); RELIGION (50%) Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; Electronic Mail; Computers and the Internet; Tenure; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



458 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
BROWN, JAMES

 BODY:
 BROWN--James. 77, of Wyckoff, NJ, died Saturday, February 18. Born April 4, 1928 in Washington Heights, NY. A graduate of Cardinal Hayes High School and Fordham University. Beloved husband to Mary; cherished father of Patricia, James, Carolyn, Denise and Erin and daughterin-law Suzy; adored Granddad of Brendan and Caitlin. Former Owner and Chairman of the American Desk Manufacturing Company. Prior to that he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Kidde, Inc. Past President of the Treasurers Club of New York and a member of the Economic Club of New York. Member of the New York Athletic Club and Ridgewood Country Club. Funeral Mass Thursday at 11:00 AM at St. Elizabeths R.C. Church, 700 Wyckoff Avenue, Wyckoff. Visitation at the Vander Plaat Funeral Home 257 Godwin Avenue, Wyckoff, on Tuesday from 7:00-9:00 PM and on Wednesday from 2:00-4:00 and 7:00-9:00 PM. vanderplaatfuneralhome .com 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); EXECUTIVES (87%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN DESK MANUFACTURING CO (71%); KIDDE INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2531 PUBLIC BUILDING & RELATED FURNITURE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



459 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: In Wireless World, Cingular Bucks the Antiunion Trend

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Cingular Wireless and Vodafone engaged in a furious bidding war two years ago to acquire AT&T Wireless. Rooting for Cingular was an unexpected fan, Kelvin Banks, a single father working at an AT&T customer service center in Jackson, Miss. 
 Mr. Banks was moved by a little-publicized fact about Cingular: it has had relatively warm relations with unions.
 The day after the company won a $41 billion auction for AT&T Wireless, Mr. Banks contacted labor officials and helped to pull off a rare but significant union organizing success story in the digital age.
 Since July 2005, the Communications Workers of America has unionized 16,500 former AT&T Wireless workers at Cingular Wireless retail stores and call centers nationwide -- a move that runs counter to the longstanding trend in the telecommunications industry and American workplaces in general. And many of those Cingular shops are in the South, where unionizing efforts have been difficult historically. 
 Cingular's wireless competitors have fought, at times fiercely, against unionization, arguing that an organized labor force would hobble their ability to move workers, cut costs and make changes necessary to compete in a high-tech industry. They often assert that unions ultimately hurt the workers they claim to protect.
 But the growth of Cingular into the nation's largest wireless carrier -- with a nearly fully unionized labor force -- has challenged those assumptions and given a new spark to organized labor, said Harry C. Katz, dean of the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University.
 ''The fact Cingular does well even in the face of unionization helps rebut the argument that unions aren't viable in a technologically sophisticated and dynamic industry,'' Mr. Katz said.
 That said, he noted that the union's success remained particular to Cingular. ''It has not contributed to a noticeable rebirth more broadly,'' Mr. Katz said. ''Whether there will be a larger resurgence -- that remains to be seen.'' 
 From the union's perspective, the success at Cingular shows what it can accomplish when it tries to organize at a company that is not averse to organized labor. 
 At communications and public utility companies, the percentage of unionized workers dropped to 21.8 percent in 2002, from 42.4 percent in 1983 (using the most recent available data organized by those categories), according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. To a large extent, the decline reflects the industry's deregulation and the shrinking work force at the heavily unionized Baby Bells. 
 By comparison, the percentage of unionized workers in service industries over all fell to 5.7 percent in 2002, from 7.7 percent in 1983, according to the bureau. 
 On Wall Street, telecommunications industry analysts said the financial impact of Cingular's union contracts was not yet clear. But ''there's not a perception on Wall Street that it's a problem,'' said Jeffrey Halpern, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. 
 He noted that a unionized work force did not appear to have hindered Cingular's ability to cut costs or streamline its staffing, though the company lagged its competitors in some areas, like retention of new subscribers. 
 About 225,000 people, including managers, work in the wireless industry, and around 39,000 of them belong to a union. Nearly all of these workers are at Cingular. (The cable operators, with a work force of around 176,000, including managers and union-eligible workers, had about 7,000 union workers as of last year.) 
 The C.W.A. has been successful in organizing stores and centers around the country, a few hundred workers at a time. Last month, it organized 1,288 Cingular customer service workers in Orlando, Fla. In December, the union added 158 Cingular workers in Hawaii, 400 in Pennsylvania, 121 in Colorado, 51 in Iowa, and 36 in Illinois.
 Mr. Banks said the idea of organizing the call center in Jackson was unthinkable when it was still part of AT&T Wireless because workers considered that company ''very antiunion.''
 So ''it was a real big deal'' when the union was certified last March, after winning the support of roughly 60 percent of some 500 workers, said Mr. Banks, the union's shop steward in Jackson.
 Union officials said that what set Cingular apart from other wireless carriers and cable companies was, quite simply, that it was not actively antiunion. To be sure, the company and the union have clashed in numerous contract negotiations. But Cingular has not tried to dissuade employees from joining the union. At places like Jackson, for instance, the company did not lobby employees to reject a union or argue that doing so would hurt them and the company.
 Instead, Cingular has sent the message that labor can be an ally. 
 The partnership with the union ''provides us a competitive advantage,'' said Lew Walker, Cingular's vice president for human resources, operations and labor relations. ''We do believe it has a positive bottom line impact on the company.'' 
 Mr. Walker said the company had benefited by getting the union's support with politicians and regulators, including its endorsement for the acquisition of AT&T Wireless. He also said Cingular had benefited in being the wireless carrier of choice among other unions and organizations that want to patronize a union-friendly company, though he declined to specify how much revenue came from those entities. 
 Cingular's acceptance of unions may also be attributable to tradition at SBC Communications, which merged with AT&T last year and adopted the AT&T name. It owns 60 percent of Cingular, with the remainder owned by the BellSouth Corporation. 
 Critical to the union's success is its strategy of fighting for ''neutrality agreements'' -- accords under which companies promise not to try to dissuade nonunion employees from organizing, said Rosemary Batt, an associate professor of human resource studies at the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell. Such agreements were in place at SBC and Cingular. 
 Of course, neutrality alone does not guarantee success, said Edward Sabol, organizing director for the communications workers. The union, he said, still has had to win majority support in each bargaining unit, within 60 days of officially beginning organizing campaigns. But he said that effort is much easier without challenges from the company.
 And the union has not always been successful, even with a neutrality agreement. Despite such an agreement with Verizon Wireless, which expired in 2004, the C.W.A. failed to organize workers at that company. 
 The union asserts that, despite the agreement, Verizon Wireless continued to discourage workers from joining. 
 Indeed, in December a federal administrative law judge in Washington issued a ruling that Verizon Wireless broke federal labor law in 2003 and 2004 by discouraging union organizing at a call center in Orangeburg, N.Y. The judge ordered Verizon to post a notice at a call center in Wilmington, N.C., where the work from Orangeburg had been moved, saying the company would cease activities like prohibiting workers from discussing unions on their break time.
 Verizon said it was appealing the decision, which it claims to have lost on technical grounds. More generally, the company argues that its workers rejected a union because they were treated better and were paid more than unionized Cingular workers.
 Last April, Verizon Wireless published a comparison showing that its average salaries were 33 percent to 44 percent higher than several thousand Cingular employees in some bargaining units. But the union disputes these figures, arguing they are not representative of the overall picture. 
 As for the former AT&T Wireless workers, they say joining the union offers some job protection. Last September, about 70 percent of the roughly 950 workers at a Cingular customer service center in Oklahoma City pledged support for the union, in part, said Michael Ahern, the chief union steward at the call center, because the workers were concerned about job security under the new management. 
 Mr. Ahern said that Cingular had been very strict about imposing quality standards on call center employees. He said that employees were regularly dismissed for failing to answer phone calls quickly enough to fill their quota, while trying to solve customer problems and be empathic. 
 Mr. Ahern said neither the union nor the management was happy with the rate of job turnover, and that both sides were negotiating on ways to retain workers, who might be able to meet the requirements with more training. Mr. Ahern said the union succeeded in getting workers a guarantee of a twice-a-year salary increase, compared with once-a-year performance-based raises at AT&T Wireless.
 As a result, he said, more workers are beginning to trust the idea of a union, something that many would not have considered under a previous employer. 
 ''It's changing,'' he said. But ''it's been slow.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kelvin Banks has helped with efforts to unionize Cingular communications workers in Jackson, Miss. (Photo by Suzi Altman for The New York Times)(pg. C2)GraphUnion membership for wage and salary workers employed byGraph tracks union membership for wage and salary workers employed by the following since 1985:All industriesWired telecommunications carriersUtilities industry(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 www.unionstats.com via Moody's Economy.com)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (95%); LABOR UNIONS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TRENDS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); CALL CENTERS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); DIVESTITURES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); RETAILERS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Labor; Organized Labor; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Wages and Salaries; Cellular Telephones; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (98%); AT&T INC (95%); AT&T CUSTOMER INFORMATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Cingular Wireless; At&t Wireless; Communications Workers of America

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (93%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



460 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Using a Lobbyist's Pull From the Governor's Seat

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss. 

 BODY:
It seems hard to imagine that in the age of Jack Abramoff, being a former lobbyist may be a good thing for a politician. But the back-slapping prowess of Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, a Republican who is legendary on K Street, Washington's Great White Way of influence peddling, has proved invaluable to this storm-rattled state.
 In mid-December, as Congress was rushing toward its Christmas break, negotiations stalled on a multibillion-dollar bill to aid victims of Hurricane Katrina here and in Louisiana. Tempers flared as House conservatives dug in against the cost. It was a bottom-of-the-ninth impasse, ready-made for a heavy-hitter lobbyist.
Enter Mr. Barbour, a fireplug of a man whose soft Delta accent and gentle Southern manners mask a stiletto-sharp approach to politics. 
 In a private meeting that began on Dec. 16 and lasted well past midnight, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and the Republican whip, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, questioned Mr. Barbour about the package. 
 It may have helped that Mr. Barbour's answers were crisp. But it was also probably beneficial that Mr. Barbour, as chairman of the Republican National Committee in the 1990's and later as a prominent lobbyist, raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for Mr. Hastert and other House Republicans. 
 Either way, the logjam broke and the House agreed to the Senate's higher number, $29 billion. In the process, Mr. Barbour helped ensure that Mississippi got nearly as much housing money as Louisiana, even though his state had far less damage. 
 ''Haley,'' said a Democratic Congressional official involved in the budget negotiations, ''was the closer.''
 Democrats ridiculed Mr. Barbour during the 2003 governor's campaign here as a puppet of the tobacco, pharmaceutical and other well-connected industries. Later, he was sharply criticized for describing as ''fabulous'' the Bush administration's response to Hurricane Katrina, and eyebrows went up when AshBritt, a Florida company that was a former client of Mr. Barbour's lobbying firm, won a big federal contract for clearing storm debris. 
 But Mr. Barbour never apologized for his lobbying experience or his closeness to the administration, asserting that his Washington connections would only help one of the nation's poorest states. 
 Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Barbour says, has proved him right. 
 ''It is obvious that my experiences and relationships over the last 35 years helped me help the state at a time when it needed it more than ever,'' he said in an interview. 
 Democrats are skeptical. Though they commend Mr. Barbour's response to the hurricane, they say it seems stellar mainly compared with the often stumbling performance of officials in Louisiana, which suffered far more devastation. They also say that Mr. Barbour is hardly the only powerful official pulling money toward Mississippi.
 ''The real hero in all this is Thad Cochran,'' said Representative Gene Taylor, a Democrat who represents the Mississippi Gulf Coast, referring to the Mississippi Republican who leads the Senate Appropriations Committee. ''Let's face it. When you are the chairman of Appropriations, you are the man.''
 Many in Mississippi argue that the package Mr. Barbour negotiated does not do enough for low-income renters. Its centerpiece is $5 billion for Mississippi homeowners who lived outside the flood plain and whose houses were destroyed by surging waters. Mr. Barbour said one of his priorities would be to use tax credits and other incentives to encourage construction of affordable housing near the coast. 
 Yet even Mr. Barbour's critics say his political fortunes have been strengthened by the national stage Hurricane Katrina gave him. In the days after the storm, the governor and his wife, Marsha, were steady presences on the coast and on national television. He was applauded for appointing a rebuilding commission soon after the storm, and his role in bringing home billions of dollars has been widely publicized in the state.
 W. Martin Wiseman, director of the John C. Stennis Institute of Government at Mississippi State University, said that Mr. Barbour's poll ratings had fallen to the low 40's last year after he tried to cut 48,000 low-income elderly and disabled people from Medicaid, but that those numbers jumped into the high 50's after Hurricane Katrina. 
 ''Before the storm, we were criticized for electing a well-known, high-paid former Washington lobbyist to be our governor,'' Mr. Wiseman said. ''But now everyone is happy that we elected a well-known, high-paid former Washington lobbyist to be our governor.''
 In his 15th-floor office overlooking Mississippi's domed Capitol, Mr. Barbour keeps a large black-and-white satellite photograph of Hurricane Katrina's swirling mass bearing down on the Mississippi coast, a reminder of the storm's breathtaking power.
 But on a nearby credenza, he keeps a reminder of a different sort of power: a series of photographs showing Vice President Dick Cheney campaigning for him in 2003.
 Years before Mr. Abramoff became this era's most infamously well-connected Republican lobbyist, Mr. Barbour was Washington's man to see. In the 1980's, he was political director for President Ronald Reagan. He was chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1993 to 1997, helping Newt Gingrich engineer the 1994 campaign that overthrew decades of Democratic control in the House. 
 From 1997 to 2003, his all-Republican lobbying firm, Barbour Griffith & Rogers, ranked among Washington's most powerful and profitable, earning $13 million in 2003, according to Influence, a publication that tracks lobbying. Mr. Barbour's clients have included Microsoft, BellSouth, CBS and a bevy of energy, pharmaceutical and tobacco companies.
 As a lobbyist, Mr. Barbour was vital to Republicans as a fund-raiser and strategist. He gave a party that raised $100,000 for Mr. Hastert's political action committee immediately after Mr. Hastert was elected speaker in 1999. He also served as one of Mr. Hastert's most trusted outside advisers.
 Mr. Barbour played a similar role advising and raising money for George W. Bush when he ran for president in 2000. Today, Mr. Bush calls Mr. Barbour ''my friend.'' Mr. Barbour is known to call the president ''Junior.''
 Immediately after Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Barbour put his bulging Rolodex to work. From the start, a Republican credo seemed to guide his approach, and unlike Louisiana officials, he avoided criticizing the Bush administration while portraying his state as self-reliant. When Louisiana's Congressional delegation proposed a $250 billion relief package that was ridiculed as the ''bayou bandits' bill,'' Mr. Barbour called for a comparatively paltry $35 billion. 
 ''In the wake of Louisiana having asked for $250 billion, most in Congress realized that was reasonable,'' Mr. Barbour said of his request.
 He focused on persuading House conservatives, who were concerned not only about the cost of the package, but also about the precedent it would set in using federal money to bail out homeowners lacking flood insurance. Comfortable with arcane policy details, Mr. Barbour argued that the federal government had a duty to help people outside the flood plain because they had relied on federal maps in deciding not to buy flood insurance. 
 ''It's easy to convince the already convinced,'' said Representative Bobby Jindal, Republican of Louisiana. ''It was much harder to convince the skeptics. And he had great impact on those people.'' 
 Starting on Dec. 12, Mr. Barbour set up camp in the Capitol Hill office of Senator Cochran, visiting lawmakers and committee chairmen. But when House negotiators refused to budge from their number, about $23 billion, even after Mr. Cochran had lowered his request to $29 billion from $35 billion, Mr. Barbour turned directly to Mr. Hastert for help. It worked. 
 ''We don't know what was said in that session,'' a Democratic Congressional official said of Mr. Barbour's Dec. 16 meeting with Mr. Hastert. ''But whatever it was, it worked.'' The official was granted anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.
 After the logjam broke, Mr. Barbour used his influence to shape the bill. Although Mr. Cochran's original request for $13 billion in block grants was scaled back to $11.5 billion, Mr. Barbour and Mr. Cochran ensured that Mississippi's share remained roughly the same: more than $5 billion. They accomplished that by devising language to cap Louisiana's share at 54 percent, about $6.2 billion, Congressional negotiators said.
 That limit has infuriated Louisiana Democrats, who point out that their state suffered three times as many destroyed houses as Mississippi. They publicly praise Mr. Barbour as helping pass the package, but they privately fume that their governor, Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, a Democrat, has been shunned by the White House and treated far more roughly than Mr. Barbour in hurricane hearings led by Republicans on Capitol Hill. 
 [Last Thursday, President Bush sent Congress a request for $19.8 billion in additional aid for the Gulf Coast that includes $4.2 billion for rebuilding or buying out severely damaged houses in Louisiana. State officials said the money would compensate for the disproportionate share Mississippi received last year.]
 For all the plaudits Mr. Barbour has received, Hurricane Katrina may have constricted his political ambitions. Once mentioned as a possible candidate for president in 2008, he now says he is too busy rebuilding Mississippi to focus on a national campaign. In February, he vowed not to run for president in 2008 and declared his intention to seek re-election in 2007. 
 In the interview, Mr. Barbour said the hurricane had provided an opportunity to rebuild ''bigger and better.'' He envisions a revitalized coast where larger, more luxurious casinos will anchor a tourist-centered economy featuring golf courses, resorts and high-rise condominium buildings like those lining Florida's Gulf Coast. The casinos will be allowed to expand onto the shore under legislation Mr. Barbour pushed through the State Legislature last year.
 Ever the pitchman, Mr. Barbour has also begun planning a campaign to attract out-of-state investors to Mississippi by emphasizing what he calls the ''strong, resilient and self-reliant'' way Mississippians responded to Hurricane Katrina. And he is preparing his next request to Congress, which will include billions to restore disappearing wetlands and barrier islands. 
 ''None of us foresaw we'd have something like Katrina, and that we'd be going to Washington to ask for something of this magnitude,'' Mr. Barbour said. ''But even during the campaign in 2003, people thought it would be good to have a governor who understood Washington.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Haley Barbour, whose ratings have risen after the hurricane, with participants in the Mississippi Senate page program this month. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi is a longtime force in Washington. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WEATHER (89%); BUDGETS (87%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CHRISTMAS (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Public Opinion; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (94%); ROY BLUNT (58%) James Dao; Haley (Gov) Barbour; J Dennis (Rep) Hastert; Thad (Sen) Cochran

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Mississippi; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



461 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1967 words

HEADLINE: GERMANY WEIGHS IF IT PLAYED ROLE IN SEIZURE BY U.S. 

BYLINE: This article was reported by Don Van Natta Jr., Souad Mekhennet, and Nicholas Wood, and was written by Mr. Van Natta.; Don Van Natta reported from Munich for this article, Souad Mekhennet from Neu-Ulm and Munich, and Nicholas Wood from Skopje.

DATELINE: MUNICH, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
For more than a year, the German government has criticized the United States for its role in the abduction of a German man who was taken to an American prison in Kabul, Afghanistan, where he said he was held and tortured for five months after being mistaken for a terrorism suspect.
 German officials said they knew nothing about the man's abduction and have repeatedly pressed Washington for information about the case, which has set off outrage here. At a meeting in Berlin last December, Chancellor Angela Merkel demanded an explanation from Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice over the incident.
But on Monday in Neu-Ulm near Munich, the police and prosecutors opened an investigation into whether Germany served as a silent partner of the United States in the abduction of the man, Khaled el-Masri, a German citizen of Arab descent who was arrested Dec. 31, 2003, in Macedonia before being flown to the Kabul prison. 
 The action came after a two-and-a-half-hour meeting at police headquarters in which Mr. Masri told the police that he was ''90 percent'' certain that a senior German police official was the interrogator who had visited him three times inside the prison in Kabul but had identified himself only as ''Sam.'' The German prosecutors said Monday that they were also investigating whether the German Embassy in Skopje, Macedonia, had been notified about Mr. Masri's kidnapping within days of his capture there, but then had done nothing to try to help him.
 Mr. Masri's case has come to symbolize the C.I.A. practice known as extraordinary rendition, in which terror suspects are sent to be interrogated in other countries where torture is commonly used. In broadening its criminal inquiry into the abduction of Mr. Masri to the activities of its own government, German prosecutors are trying to determine whether the German government worked secretly with the United States in the practice.
 ''I feel deceived and betrayed by my own country,'' Mr. Masri, a 42-year-old unemployed car salesman from Neu-Ulm, said in an interview.
 The German police official identified as ''Sam'' denied that he had visited Mr. Masri in Afghanistan and said he was ''on holiday'' at the time in Germany, but that he could not remember exactly where. The man was present on Monday at the police station, where Mr. Masri picked him out of a 10-person lineup. After speaking with him, Mr. Masri said that his voice was similar but that his hair style was different. 
 Martin Hofmann, a prosecutor in Munich, said Monday that his office would not ''assume that this man is Sam'' but would ''go forward with our investigation.'' 
 A senior German official familiar with the case said that Mr. Masri was ''at best mistaken'' and that the police official ''cannot be Sam.''
 The New York Times is withholding the official's name at the request of Germany's intelligence services because he often does undercover intelligence work. He frequently gets ''sensitive'' assignments and helps clean up ''dirty work'' for the German foreign intelligence service, said one of his longtime colleagues, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 A senior Macedonian government official who was directly involved in Mr. Masri's detention told The Times that not long after Mr. Masri's capture, Macedonian officials notified the German Embassy in Skopje. C.I.A. officers in Macedonia conducted the interrogation of Mr. Masri, according to Macedonian officials. 
 August Stern, the Munich-based federal prosecutor who is leading Germany's criminal investigation of Mr. Masri's kidnapping, said his investigators were trying to determine whether the German Embassy had been told about Mr. Masri's capture, and then sent a German agent to the American prison in Kabul to talk with him. Mr. Stern and other senior police officers and prosecutors said they would try to interview the officials in the embassy in Skopje in coming weeks.
 August Hanning, secretary of state for the Ministry of the Interior, denied in an interview that any member of Germany's secret services had visited Mr. Masri while he was held captive. ''He has never been to Afghanistan,'' Mr. Hanning said of the German police official. 
 Two senior German officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the case's sensitive nature, denied that Germany's Embassy had been told about Mr. Masri's capture. ''The German Embassy in Skopje was not informed by Macedonian authorities while German citizen el-Masri was in custody in Macedonia,'' a Foreign Office spokesman said. Another official said Germany did not learn about Mr. Masri's detention until May 31, 2004, when the American ambassador to Germany at the time, Daniel Coats, informed German officials about Mr. Masri's capture and eventual release.
 ''According to our investigation, I am convinced that German officials did not have any knowledge before his release,'' the official said.
 Later this week, the German government is expected to turn over a report to Parliament about Mr. Masri's case.
 Meanwhile, investigators at the Council of Europe, led by Dick Marty, a Swiss lawmaker, are looking into whether there was quiet cooperation between the C.I.A. and its counterparts in European countries, including Germany, Italy and Sweden, where suspected terrorists were kidnapped and sent to third countries for interrogation.
 In Italy, the authorities in June charged 23 C.I.A. agents with the abduction of a terrorism suspect from the streets of Milan. Italian officials insist that they did not know about the procedure, but some elected officials in Italy said the Americans must have tipped off their counterparts in the Italian intelligence agency.
 European officials have been sharply critical of the C.I.A.'s rendition program. In particular, German officials have rebuked the United States for playing a role in the abduction of one of their citizens and then transporting him to Afghanistan on a chartered C.I.A. plane. 
 ''I have no explanation for the whole case,'' a senior German official said. ''To bring such a man like el-Masri from Europe to Afghanistan and to ask him some questions and six months later, the explanation is that it's a terrible error is not very convincing. To me there are still a lot of questions.''
 Manfred R. Gnjidic, Mr. Masri's lawyer, said he is convinced that Germany ''stood by like a little school boy, watching what was going on with my client and doing nothing.''
 After more than five months in captivity, the United States released Mr. Masri without filing charges. His case was first disclosed in The Times in January 2005. 
 At the meeting last December in Berlin between the German chancellor and Ms. Rice, the kidnapping of Mr. Masri was discussed privately, but the two leaders seemed to disagree about the substance of that conversation afterward.
 Ms. Merkel said the Bush administration had admitted that it had mistakenly abducted Mr. Masri. But Ms. Rice declined to discuss with reporters anything about the case. She said only that she had pledged to Ms. Merkel, ''When and if mistakes are made, we work very hard and as quickly as possible to rectify them.''
 In Washington, a senior State Department official said Monday that the department would not comment on Mr. Masri's case, noting that it was a matter of litigation in both Germany and the United States. In late 2003, Mr. Masri left his family in Ulm for a trip to Macedonia. Macedonian and German officials said he was arrested at a border checkpoint on Dec. 31, 2003, because his name was on an Interpol terror watch list. But they said the name referred to another Khaled el-Masri.
 Mr. Masri was then held in a hotel in Macedonia for several weeks, where he was questioned by the C.I.A., according to senior Macedonian and American officials. A senior Macedonian official said the German Embassy was notified about Mr. Masri within days of his capture. ''Unofficially, they knew,'' the official said of the Germans.
 A C.I.A. spokesman declined to comment.
 Two senior Macedonian officials said the Americans had asked to have Mr. Masri detained in Macedonia for 23 days. ''We consider the Americans as our partners,'' a senior Macedonian official said. ''We cannot refuse them.''
 Mr. Masri said he had pleaded with his captors to let him go. ''Call the German Embassy,'' Mr. Masri said he had repeatedly told them. ''I'm a German citizen. Please tell them I am here!''
 ''They don't want to talk to you,'' he said one of his captors had replied.
 In a recent interview, Mr. Masri said: ''I thought it was strange that they kept telling me the Germans didn't care about me. Now I know why they said that -- because it was true.''
 At the hotel, Mr. Masri said he had been asked whether he was a member of Al Qaeda. But he was struck by the many questions he was asked about his time in Germany. He said the questions had led him to suspect that the Germans were cooperating with the Macedonians.
 A German official disputed that assertion, saying Germany often shared information with their American counterparts about suspected terrorists. But the official acknowledged that the German police had not considered Mr. Masri to be an ''important'' suspect.
 Publicly, Macedonia has denied that Mr. Masri was held illegally. ''There is nothing the ministry has done illegally,'' Hari Kostiv, the minister of interior at the time and later the prime minister, said in an interview. ''The man is alive and back home with his family. Somebody made a mistake. That somebody is not Macedonia.''
 By late January 2004, Mr. Masri was sent to Afghanistan, where he said he was held and beaten over the next five months.
 For Mr. Masri, one of the biggest mysteries was the identity of the interrogator who identified himself as Sam, and who spoke fluent German. He visited three times during Mr. Masri's final month at the Kabul jail.
 During the first meeting, Mr. Masri said he had asked the man if he was from Germany, but the man declined to answer. Mr. Masri said he had asked him, ''Do the Germans know I'm here?''
 ''He said he did not want to answer,'' Mr. Masri said. ''I asked him if my wife knew I was there. Sam said she doesn't know. He then said, I shouldn't ask questions, I should only answer them.''
 During their second meeting, the man was no longer belligerent, Mr. Masri said, bringing him cookies, chocolates and a copy of the German newsmagazine Focus. The man also asked if Mr. Masri wanted ''anything from Germany.''
 ''I said, 'Nothing, thank you,' '' Mr. Masri said.
 In their last meeting, a week before Mr. Masri's release, the man told him that he would be returning home soon. The last time Mr. Masri saw Sam, the interrogator was speaking with a man who he believed was an American. Soon afterward, Mr. Masri was released.
 On Dec. 12, 2005, Mr. Gnjidic, the lawyer for Mr. Masri, received an e-mail message from a German journalist named Frank Kruger, who suggested that Sam might be a German police official. Earlier this month, Mr. Gnjidic said he had obtained a videotape of the police official that convinced Mr. Masri that he was Sam. On Monday, after meeting the man at police headquarters, Mr. Masri said he was 90 percent certain that the police official was Sam.
 ''The man was very nervous, and he could not look at me into my eyes,'' Mr. Masri said. ''The hair is different, but the voice sounded very similar.''
 ''For me, it is very important that we know who this man was,'' he said.
 Mr. Gnjidic said he found it hard to believe that other than the prosecutors in Munich, no one in the German government has sought Mr. Masri's testimony about his ordeal. ''The scandal for me is that the Germans did nothing when they heard a German had been captured,'' he said. ''They should have protested very hard and tried to stop this.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Khaled el-Masri says he is ''90 percent'' certain he was interrogated by a German police official in an American prison in Kabul. (Photo by Ruedinger Baessler/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TORTURE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); ARRESTS (72%) Terrorism; Freedom and Human Rights; Mistaken Identity; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Torture; Foreign Service; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); ANGELA MERKEL (58%) Don Jr Van Natta; Souad Mekhennet; Nicholas Wood; Khaled El- Masri

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Germany; Afghanistan; Macedonia (Former Yugoslav Republic)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



462 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: A Test for the New Justices

 BODY:
The Supreme Court hears arguments today in a pair of cases that could drastically weaken the protections of the Clean Water Act. These cases are an important test of the legal philosophy of John Roberts Jr., the new chief justice, and Samuel Alito Jr., the new associate justice. If they take a hard-line states' rights stance, it will be a sign that they agree with ultraconservatives who want to restrict Congress's power to regulate critical national matters like environmental protection, public health and workplace safety. 
 The two cases being heard today, both out of Michigan, are challenges by developers who want to build on environmentally fragile lands. They argue that the Clean Water Act should not interfere with their plans. The act bars the discharge of pollutants, including dredged or fill material, into ''navigable waters.'' There has been much debate over just what the act covers. The Supreme Court has already held that it protects wetlands that are adjacent to navigable waters. Today's cases involve two new permutations. One developer's wetlands are adjacent not to navigable waters, but to their tributaries. The other's wetlands are separated from such tributaries by a berm, a small manmade barrier.
 It is clear from the act, and the many interpretations it has been given over the years, that Congress intended to protect a whole national system of waterways. Wetlands, which play a critical role in flood control and in filtering out pollutants before they reach nearby waters, should be covered, even if they are adjacent to tributaries or isolated by berms. 
 The developers argue that applying the act against them would exceed Congress's power under the Commerce Clause. But protecting this whole national system of waterways is basic to Congress's power. Even the Bush administration, which is sympathetic to states' rights, has come in strongly on Congress's side. So have more than 30 states and a national association of state water pollution officials, which says that removing federal protections would ''leave a regulatory void that the states could not easily fill.''
 These cases' impact on the environment could be devastating. The rivers and streams classified as navigable represent a very small percentage of all rivers and streams in the nation. If the developers prevailed, a vast majority of the nation's waterways could be opened up to pollution, endangering the health of the many millions of Americans who drink these waters or are otherwise exposed to them.
 Beyond the environmental impact if the new Roberts court should use these cases to scale back Congress's powers, other important federal health, workplace safety and economic protections would also be put at risk. Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito talked at their confirmation hearings about judicial modesty and respect for the democratically elected branches. These cases may give the American people the first clear indication of just how judicially modest the new justices intend to be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WETLANDS (93%); WATER QUALITY (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); APPEALS (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RIVERS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LITIGATION (73%); FLOOD CONTROL (71%) Wetlands; Suits and Litigation; Editorials; Law and Legislation ; Wetlands

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (90%); SAMUEL ALITO (89%) Samuel A Jr (Assoc Justice) Alito; John G Jr (Chief Justice) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) Michigan; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



463 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: Disparate Conservative Assessments Of Bush

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Rebel-in-Chief
Inside the Bold and Controversial Presidency of George W. Bush
By Fred Barnes
220 pages. Crown Forum. $23.95.

Impostor
How George W. Bush Bankrupted America and Betrayed the Reagan Legacy
By Bruce Bartlett
310 pages. Doubleday. $26.

 The portraits of President George W. Bush served up by these two new books could not be more at odds.
Both authors are die-hard, dyed-in-the-wool conservatives. Bruce Bartlett (''Impostor''), former executive director of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, worked in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush and wrote the 1981 supply-side manifesto ''Reaganomics.'' Fred Barnes is executive editor of ''The Weekly Standard'' and a co-host of the Fox News program ''The Beltway Boys.'' The two authors, however, have come to diametrically opposing views of the current president. 
 Mr. Barnes views Mr. Bush as ''a president who leads,'' an action-oriented ''visionary,'' an executive who combines ''F.D.R.'s cool optimism'' and Teddy Roosevelt's ''pugnacity and determination.'' Mr. Barnes had unusual access to members of the press-phobic administration: he interviewed Mr. Bush as well as Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld for this volume. But he did not use this access to ask hard-hitting questions. Instead, his book echoes the administration's own portrayals of itself, even employing the same sort of macho adjectives the White House and Bush campaigns have used to characterize the president: ''bold,'' ''audacious,'' ''steadfast,'' ''unflinching.'' 
 As Mr. Barnes sees it, Mr. Bush's brand of conservatism -- activist, forward-leaning and willing to use the government to solve problems -- is ''the conservatism of the future.''
 Mr. Bartlett, in contrast, sees Mr. Bush as a ''pretend conservative'' -- ''a partisan Republican, anxious to improve the fortunes of his party'' but ''perfectly willing to jettison conservative principles at a moment's notice to achieve that goal.'' He writes that the current White House is ''obsessive about secrecy,'' argues that Mr. Bush has pursued ''what could be described as a Nixonian agenda using Nixon's methods'' and declares that when it comes to the federal budget, ''Clinton was much better.'' Mr. Bush, he contends, has set the country on ''an unsustainable fiscal course,'' resulting in a ballooning deficit that will inevitably lead to tax increases.
 As Mr. Bartlett sees it, ''the 2002 collapse of Enron'' -- the giant energy trading company, which ''borrowed heavily, paid little in taxes, and made big profits in ways that were known to be contrary to sound business practices'' -- ''may in some ways be a metaphor for the Bush Administration's economic policy.''
 His critique extends well beyond the economic sphere. He argues that ''Bush has driven away and even humiliated the few intellectuals in his midst, preferring instead the company of overrated political hacks whose main skills seem to be an ability to say yes to whatever he says and to ignore the obvious.'' And he declares that the president's ''unwillingness to properly utilize the traditional policy development process'' lies ''at the heart of the failure of his Social Security proposal and possibly the Iraq operation as well.'' 
 ''One of the hallmarks of George W. Bush's approach to policy that is disturbing both to friends and foes alike,'' Mr. Bartlett writes, ''is an apparent disdain for serious thought and research to develop his policy initiatives. Often they seem born from a kind of immaculate conception, with no mother or father to claim parentage.'' 
 Mr. Bartlett argues that the failure of ''the administration to chart or articulate a consistent economic policy'' stemmed, in large measure, from ''Bush's disinterest in serious policy analysis'' and his sidelining of people with genuine expertise. He writes that Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and his successor, John Snow, were treated as ''little more than errand boys,'' and that the Council of Economic Advisers was accorded little influence as well. It became clear, Mr. Bartlett writes, that the main job of the Council's chairman, R. Glenn Hubbard, ''was not to devise economic policies, but only to offer support for those Bush had already decided upon.'' 
 These remarks by Mr. Bartlett echo earlier observations about the administration's mistrust of experts and often haphazard decision-making process, made by journalists like George Packer (writing about the Iraq war) and former administration insiders. Richard A. Clarke, the former counterterrorism adviser, has written that on issues like terrorism and Iraq, ''Bush and his inner circle had no real interest in complicated analyses; on the issues that they cared about, they already knew the answers, it was received wisdom.'' Former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill once told Vice President Cheney that he felt administration members needed to bring more ''analytical rigor, sound information-gathering techniques and real, cost-benefit analysis'' to the decision making process. And John DiIulio, the former head of the Bush administration's faith-based initiative, wrote a 2002 memo to the reporter Ron Suskind, in which he lamented that ''in eight months, I heard many, many staff discussions but not three meaningful, substantive policy discussions.'' 
 The descriptions of the Bush White House in ''Rebel-in-Chief'' do not exactly contradict those in ''Impostor,'' but where Mr. Bartlett sees slapdash decision-making, Mr. Barnes sees decisiveness and visionary leadership -- an admirable contempt for ''small ball'' and a practical desire to focus on results, not means. Mr. Barnes seems to think that being ''a risk taker'' who ''loves to smash conventional wisdom'' is a positive thing in a president, and he points out that Mr. Bush ''hates to manage a problem or a dispute or a broken relationship,'' preferring to cut to ''what's the solution?'' 
 The account that Mr. Barnes gives of the president's approach to speech-making is especially telling, ironically ratifying Mr. Bartlett's observation that Mr. Bush likes to spurn traditional policy-making channels. 
 In ''Rebel-in-Chief,'' Mr. Barnes writes that Mr. Bush ''has used his presidential speeches to advance policies far beyond where his aides expected him to go,'' that ''rather than reflect policy, his speeches dictate policy.'' Typically, he notes, the Bush speechwriting process begins with a meeting between the president and Michael Gerson, his former chief speechwriter turned policy adviser. Once drafted, the speech is circulated at the White House but ''is not open to debate.'' 
 ''This is the first time most White House and administration officials see a speech,'' Mr. Barnes writes. ''It already has the president's imprimatur. Advisers are free to recommend a change in wording, but Bush does not tolerate attempts to alter the general direction of a speech.'' 
 In the case of the second Inaugural Address, which declared that spreading liberty around the world was ''the calling of our time,'' Mr. Barnes reports that Mr. Bush teased Condoleezza Rice, saying ''You're not going to believe what I say.'' Ms. Rice reportedly responded, ''I hope I get to see it before you give it.'' What she and other senior Bush advisers later saw, Mr. Barnes goes on, ''was a near-final draft to which only minor changes could be made.'' He continues, The thrust of the speech -- the new direction, the policy declaration -- had been set.''
 Not only does Mr. Barnes fail to make a persuasive case for the virtues of Mr. Bush's go-it-alone management style, but his narrative is also so replete with blinkered predictions, ridiculous generalizations and absurdly rosy pronouncements as to undermine any trust whatsoever in the author. He writes that ''America's strategic position has indeed been fortified'' by the president's Middle East policy, that ''Afghanistan and Iraq are pro-American democracies'' now, and that ''Bush had received vindication both abroad and at home'' when Iraqis turned out to vote in last year's elections -- as if that meant that the war had been deemed successful and wise. 
 Mr. Barnes assails the press for contending that Mr. Bush has ''indulged in more God-talk than his predecessors'' (he contends that Bill Clinton ''mentioned Jesus Christ more than Bush has''), even though Mr. Barnes himself writes that ''Bush has been more powerfully affected by his faith than any other president'' and that his ''faith has had an enormous impact on his policies.'' He says ''the Bush approach to foreign policy and key domestic issues, and his use of government, will stick as key elements of the conservatism of the future,'' despite the president's low standing in the polls, despite the public's unhappiness with the war in Iraq, despite many conservatives' worries about his administration's lavish spending ways. And he writes that ''President Bush revealed his proactive tendencies after Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans and coastal Mississippi in the late summer of 2005,'' despite the fact that Mr. Bush and the federal government were painfully slow to respond to the emergency, as a scathing report issued by House Republicans noted a week ago.
 As for Mr. Bartlett's book, there is one gaping omission: a reluctance to grapple with the huge federal deficits run up by his hero, Ronald Reagan. But while this omission blunts the author's complaints about President Bush's deficit spending, it does not detract from his larger criticisms of the current administration: namely, its subversion of many traditional conservative beliefs (like a wariness of Wilsonian efforts to export democracy and a wariness of big government); its willingness to subordinate long-term policy goals to short-term political gains; and perhaps most important, its distrust of the government's traditional policy-making apparatus and its inclination to make decisions based on ideology and grand ideas rather than on substantive analysis and debate.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fred Barnes (Photo by Fox News Channel)
 Bruce Bartlett (Photo by Van Riper Photography)(pg. E10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LITERATURE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TAX LAW (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (64%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) Michiko Kakutani; Fred Barnes; Bruce Bartlett

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



464 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; VITAL SIGNS: MONEY AND MEDICINE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Richer or Poorer, Health and Wealth Are Linked 

BYLINE: By Nicholas Bakalar

 BODY:
A new report issued last week adds support to the premise that poor people are in worse physical condition and have an increased risk for death compared with those who are better off. 
 The findings, published last week in The Journal of the American Medical Association, examined more than 30,000 patients consecutively referred to the Cleveland Clinic for stress testing. The researchers assigned a socioeconomic status score to each patient by matching the home address to economic data in the 2000 census.
Patients exercised on a treadmill while being measured for the maximum amount of oxygen they consumed during exercise, usually called functional capacity, and for heart rate recovery, or the amount the heart rate decreases during the first minute after exercise.
 Both slower heart rate recovery and lower functional capacity were associated with lower socioeconomic status, even after controlling for age, race, smoking and body mass index.
 The subjects were then followed for an average of six and a half years, through February 2004, to track their survival. 
 There were 2,174 deaths during the period, and patients in the lowest quarter of socioeconomic status score were twice as likely to have died as those in the highest quarter, even though the two groups did not differ in age, sex, race or current smoking habits. 
 Dr. Michael S. Lauer, the study's senior author and a professor of medicine and epidemiology at Case Western Reserve University, said that poverty itself could be a cause of disease or death. 
 ''Some people think that poverty causes stress to the autonomic nervous system, the part that regulates blood pressure and heart rate,'' Dr. Lauer said. ''Stress to the autonomic nervous system can manifest as hypertension and poor fitness.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); TRENDS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HYPERTENSION (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SMOKING (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); CENSUS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); WRITERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Medicine and Health; Research; Economic Conditions and Trends; Longevity; Age, Chronological; Income; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%) Case Western Reserve University; Journal of the American Medical Assn

PERSON: Nicholas Bakalar; Michael S (Dr) Lauer

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%) OHIO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



465 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Small Business; GREEN VENTURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Rewarding Recyclers, and Finding Gold in the Garbage 

BYLINE: By BONNIE DeSIMONE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
PATRICK FITZGERALD found himself distracted as he studied for the bar exam at Fordham University five years ago. New York City was debating the merits of continuing its recycling program and Mr. FitzGerald wondered why that was a question at all. ''I wasn't an overt tree-hugger, but I thought it was odd,'' he said. 
 He began poking around Web sites and news articles about the economics of recycling, and concluded that one of the industry's biggest problems was motivating its suppliers -- the people who generate garbage. 
Moral obligation -- or even compassion for trees -- was not enough to induce good recycling habits, Mr. FitzGerald decided. Instead of spending money on campaigns to persuade people to recycle, he thought: What if you paid them directly? What would happen?
 In late 2002, he talked about the idea with Ron Gonen, a high school classmate and fellow Philadelphia-area native. Before long, the project swallowed up their lives and maxed out their credit cards.
 Mr. FitzGerald quit his job at a Wall Street law firm, moved back into his mother's attic in suburban Philadelphia and began working the phones and Internet search engines, making contacts in the solid-waste industry and finding retailers who were willing to participate in a customer rewards program. Mr. Gonen, then in his first year in the M.B.A. program at Columbia University, put in late nights writing a business plan and software, becoming ''more and more involved and obsessed.'' 
 Their teamwork led to the birth of RecycleBank (recyclebank.com) in early 2004. The logo is a piggy bank whose hind end is a recycling bin, embodying consumer incentives and environmental consciousness.
 The process seems elegantly simple. Households get credit for the weight of materials they recycle, which is scanned and recorded through a computer chip embedded in the garbage bins when they are picked up by the sanitation crew. They exchange that credit for coupons at various businesses. Municipal officials save disposal fees. Recycling companies make more money from processing. Retailers gain the feel-good association with a socially beneficial activity.
 RecycleBank charges municipalities (or private haulers, depending on the arrangement) $24 a household, and guarantees clients that they will save at least that much in disposal fees as waste is diverted from landfills and incinerators. The company also receives revenue from recycling plants, depending on how much it increases the amount of materials that are processed. 
 ''I thought the idea had tremendous merit right from the start,'' said Clifford J. Schorer Jr., who helped mentor Mr. Gonen in his position as entrepreneur in residence at the Eugene M. Lang Center for Entrepreneurship at Columbia. The university contributed $100,000 to RecycleBank's seed money. 
 Residents participating in RecycleBank can check their ''balance'' online and cash in their coupons -- a maximum of $25 a month, $400 a year -- at several dozen national chains like Starbucks, Home Depot and Bed Bath & Beyond. The Coca-Cola Company set up a Green Community Fund, where coupons can be donated to environmental education programs in the Philadelphia public schools and public libraries. 
 During its start last year in Philadelphia, RecycleBank also established relationships with local businesses like the Chestnut Hill Cheese Shop and the Reading Terminal Market, where about 25 specialty vendors accept the coupons. 
 One problem for the RecycleBank was trying to find a way to measure the volume of recyclable goods generated by a household and credit that amount to participants. Through Web searches and phone calls, the men identified Cascade Engineering in Grand Rapids, Mich., which provided free several thousand 35- and 64-gallon bins embedded with RFID (radio frequency identification) technology as part of its research and development budget. 
 The ''smart waste'' tag, a combination computer chip and bar code, enables the bins to be scanned and weighed and the amount linked to a household. The information is channeled from an on-board computer in the garbage trucks into a databank. 
 The LTS Scale Corporation of Twinsburg, Ohio, was able to configure scales and a tipping mechanism for the containers, which fit on the back of the trucks so the bins can be weighed and easily emptied. 
 Why not cheat by adding a bowling ball or other heavy nonrecyclable items to the trash? RecycleBank came up with a button on the on-board computer that workers can press to flag the address if they notice contraband. This happens ''less than rarely,'' Mr. FitzGerald said. 
 Both men, who are 30 years old, decided early on that it was important to spare households the tedium of separating glass, paper, plastic and metal. They signed on with the Philadelphia-based Blue Mountain Recycling, which uses sorting technology employing fans, gravity, magnets and manual picking. 
 RecycleBank persuaded Philadelphia officials to allow it to conduct a pilot project involving 2,500 households in two Philadelphia neighborhoods, upscale Chestnut Hill and modest West Oak Lane. Six months later, 90 percent of the households in both neighborhoods were participating, up from 35 percent in Chestnut Hill and 7 percent in West Oak Lane -- averaging 25 pounds a week of recyclables per home. The city is considering whether to contract for the service and extend it. 
 The project's success has helped Mr. FitzGerald and Mr. Gonen to sell the RecycleBank program to several municipalities in the mid-Atlantic and New England regions. Officials in Wilmington, Del., will begin a RecycleBank plan with an initial 4,000 households on April 1. 
 The company's largest expansion occurred when Blue Mountain was acquired by Casella Waste Systems in Rutland, Vt., in September. Casella plans to introduce the RecycleBank program to 100,000 households in New England next year. 
 Mr. Gonen said the fast start had been exhilarating, but added, ''I'm very focused on putting on the brakes when they need to be put on.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: WASTE ENTREPRENEURS -- Patrick FitzGerald, left, and Ron Gonen came up with incentives for recycling. At left: reward coupons good at stores. (Photographs by Sabina Louise Pierce for The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (77%); LANDFILLS (77%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (77%); WASTE REDUCTION (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); LOYALTY MARKETING (70%); RETAILERS (70%); SALES PROMOTIONS (70%); BUSINESS PLANS (66%); SEARCH ENGINES (51%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Company and Organization Profiles; Landfill; Incinerators; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Waste Materials and Disposal

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%) RecycleBank

PERSON: Bonnie Desimone; Patrick Fitzgerald; Ron Gonen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



466 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Small Business; GROWTH SPURT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: A Cyberfueled Growth Spurt

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THE old story of technology in business was a trickle-down affair. From telephones to computers, big companies came first. They could afford the latest innovations, and they reaped the benefits of greater efficiency, increased sales and expansion into distant markets. As a technology spread and costs fell, small businesses joined the parade, though from the rear. 
 Now that pattern is being challenged by a bottom-up revolution, one fueled by a second wave of Internet technologies like the search services from Google, Yahoo and Microsoft and software delivered as a utilitylike service over the Web.
The second-generation Internet technologies -- combined with earlier tools like the Web itself and e-mail -- are drastically reducing the cost of communicating, finding things and distributing and receiving services online. That means a cost leveling that puts small companies on equal footing with big ones, making it easier for upstarts to innovate, disrupt industries and even get big fast. 
 The phenomenon is a big step in the democratization of information technology. Its imprint is evident well beyond business, in the social and cultural impact of everything from blogs to online role-playing games. Still, it seems that small businesses, and the marketplace they represent, will be affected the most in the overall economy. Long-held assumptions are suddenly under assault.

FORTUNE BELOW 500 -- One truism has been that while small businesses represent a huge market -- companies with fewer than 500 employees, the government reports, account for half the nation's economic output and 60 to 80 percent of all new jobs -- it is highly fragmented and hard to reach.
 So big companies typically shunned the small-business market, and Silicon Valley start-ups tended to sidestep it, instead devising business plans focused on either the consumer or the large-corporate market. But Salesforce.com, which supplies customer tracking and management software online, has shown how to create a thriving business by selling first to small businesses. 
 ''Our company was based on building momentum from the bottom up, and using the Web as we do drastically reduces the cost of sales and service,'' said Phill Robinson, senior vice president for marketing.
 Today, the company has more than 18,000 customers and sales of more than $300 million a year. Its only problem seems to be growing pains, as the company's network went down a couple of times in the last two months. Many start-ups are trying to follow in the footsteps of Salesforce by offering software as an online service to reach smaller companies.
 I.B.M. makes its living catering to the costly needs of its Fortune 500 clientele. But last year, it began offering small businesses Web-based software services like filtering for e-mail spam and viruses, starting at less than $2 per employee a month.
 ''I.B.M. could not afford to touch this market years ago,'' said James M. Corgel, general manager of services for small and medium-size businesses. ''But as we automate more, we can afford to sell to the small-business market.''

CREATING MORE GAZELLES -- Students of small business have often noted that the most economically significant companies are the ''gazelles,'' small businesses that become dynamic fast-growing companies. The new Web-based technologies could foster a proliferation of gazelles, stimulating job creation and wealth across the economy.
 ''In principle, this should lower barriers to the entry and growth of innovative small enterprises,'' said Frederic M. Scherer, an economist and professor emeritus at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
 That principle is being widely practiced these days. Take the example of Bella Pictures, a three-year-old business in San Francisco. Its goal is to transform the enterprise of wedding pictures from a local craft of mixed quality into a national business of consistently high quality and personalized service. It has grown rapidly, and last wedding season, May through October, Bella shot photographs at 1,300 weddings. 
 Bella's 150 freelance photographers and 50 consultants in a dozen cities are linked in a virtual network. Every job, assignment, bride and mother-of-the-bride preference is entered into a Web-based customer relationship management program. Bella markets itself by buying keywords, like ''wedding photography,'' on search engines like Google and Yahoo to bring customers to its Web site, bellapictures.com. 
 Bella solicits photographers on Craigslist, the online bulletin board, and photographers submit portfolios through the Web, too. All photographs are taken with digital cameras. 
 The technology behind Bella, said Tom Kramer, the president and a founder, has become available and affordable only in the last few years. Sophisticated customer- and job-tracking software, he said, used to be available only as million-dollar software applications, with hefty annual maintenance fees. Today, its Web-based equivalent is a pay-for-use service from Salesforce, which costs Bella a couple of thousand dollars a month. Web searching, online listings and the spread of digital photography, he added, are all crucial tools for Bella.
 ''Our business wouldn't have been possible five years ago,'' he said.

MORE GROWTH ON TAP -- The new technology is also giving small businesses the freedom to pursue new strategies. Brooklyn Brewery, founded in 1988, took a new path less than three years ago. The company wanted to build its beer into a larger regional brand. So it sold the trucks and storage facilities that it had used mainly in the New York area, and hired independent distributors to deliver its beer up and down the East Coast.
 To become a regional business, the company wanted most of its employees to work outside Brooklyn, promoting its beer in new markets. It invested about $20,000 in a computer network so that its 15-person sales force, spread from Massachusetts to Georgia, could tap in from notebook computers for information on everything from sales leads to poster art for tavern promotions.
 The strategy has paid off. Sales at the 27-person company have grown nearly 30 percent over the last couple of years to about $10 million in 2005, said Eric Ottaway, the general manager, who expects sales to rise about 15 percent this year. The growth has come without adding to his four-person administrative staff, Mr. Ottaway said.
 Brooklyn Brewery farms out the maintenance of its computer network to a services company, Quality Technology Solutions of Morris Plains, N.J., which typically works for larger businesses. But it can make money on a smaller account like the beer maker because of the Internet and features that Microsoft has added to its Small Business Server software, which enables remote updating, troubleshooting and bug fixes, said Neil Rosenberg, president of Quality Technology Solutions. Mr. Rosenberg's experts can now monitor and tweak the brewery's computers from New Jersey. 
 ''So I don't have to schlep a technician to Brooklyn for 80 to 90 percent of the problems,'' he said.
 I.B.M., the giant of the technology services business, is not sending consultants to Cole Harford in Overland Park, Kan., either. Last year, Cole Harford, a distributor of restaurant supplies like napkins and plastic cups, started using a couple of I.B.M. Web-based software programs that monitor Cole Harford's e-mail for spam and viruses, blocking malicious code from reaching its 75 desktop and notebook personal computers. The service has been remarkably effective, said Laurel Johnson, the information technology director at Cole Harford, and it costs less than $5 a month per user.
 Previously, Ms. Johnson said, she and an assistant used to spend two days a week wrestling with virus and spam troubles. Today, those problems take only four hours a month of her time, so she is planning to finally tackle a long-delayed project to automate the company's four warehouses.

PROVIDING A SECOND WIND -- The new Web technologies have also given a second life to languishing small businesses. Until a few years ago, the Newark Nut Company, a retail and wholesale vendor of nuts, candy and other snacks, was struggling in a declining urban neighborhood. But in 2003, Jeffrey Braverman decided to leave behind his six-figure salary at a private investment company in Manhattan and help revive his family's business.
 Mr. Braverman pushed the business online, studied Web marketing and bought keywords on search engines. Since then, the company's employment has tripled to 12 people, Mr. Braverman said, and sales have tripled into millions of dollars a year. The business, now called Nutsonline.com, recently relocated to Linden, N.J.
 Search technology, he said, can really open the door to wider markets for small companies. Far-flung customers can find a company's products, while keyword advertising makes marketing more specific and affordable. ''It's just been phenomenal what Google has done for our business,'' said Mr. Braverman, who is 25.
 Smaller businesses have now taken the lead in spending on information technology. Small and medium-size businesses -- those with fewer than 1,000 employees -- account for half of all spending on hardware, software and services in the United States, and their spending grew 35 percent faster last year than the overall market, according to IDC, a research firm. That trend, said Ray Boggs, an IDC analyst, is expected to continue for the next few years as small businesses become more eager and adept at using new Web technology.
 JotSpot is a Silicon Valley start-up betting on the small-business market. It offers collaborative work spaces online where people can share and edit Web-based documents and databases for project management, help desks, recruiting, product development and other tasks.
 JotSpot calls them ''do-it-yourself applications.'' Anyone can create up to 20 Web pages shared by five people, at no cost. For more pages and larger groups, the monthly fees start at $9.
 ''The sweet spot for us is small businesses up to 200 people,'' said Joe Kraus, a co-founder and the chief executive of JotSpot. ''The rise of software as a Web service, combined with search marketing, has totally changed the economics of supplying and selling technology to small businesses.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW DOORS OPEN -- Search engines and other tools are helping small businesses thrive. Clockwise from left: Newark Nut Company became Nutsonline.com
Tom Kramer, a founder of Bella Pictures
and Eric Ottaway at the Brooklyn Brewery. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dan Krauss for The New York Times)(pg. G10)Drawing (pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); EMAIL MARKETING (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); STARTUPS (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (56%) Small Business; Computers and the Internet; Small Business

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); SALESFORCE.COM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%) Salesforce.com; Bell Pictures; Brooklyn Brewery Corp; Newark Nut Co; JotSpot

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); CRM (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



467 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; MINORITY-OWNED BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: After the Flood, Free Advice for Entrepreneurs in Need 

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, galvanized by studies showing that the number of minority-owned businesses was increasing rapidly nationwide but still faced basic problems like borrowing money, a coalition decided small-business owners needed help to grow and prosper.
 The Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, a nonprofit group in Kansas City, Mo., dedicated to fostering entrepreneurship, joined with the National Urban League and other organizations -- with an endorsement from the White House -- to create the Urban Entrepreneur Partnership to give minority businesspeople advice and training needed to overcome financial and other obstacles. 
Just as the Entrepreneur Partnership was setting up one-stop small-business help centers in several cities, the southernmost being Atlanta, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita devastated as many as 80,000 Gulf Coast businesses, many of them minority-owned companies.
 ''We couldn't just go on with the original plan and ignore what was going on in New Orleans and the area around it,'' said Daryl Williams, the Kauffman Foundation's director of minority entrepreneurship.
 ''When Katrina hit, people asked us about what we were going to do to help those entrepreneurs,'' he said, ''but we had not thought about it.''
 But Mr. Williams got in gear. Within weeks, he went to New Orleans, where he was shaken by the ''unprecedented and demonic horror on the Gulf Coast,'' and the daunting conditions for those who had lost their businesses and sometimes their homes.
 After two more visits to the region, Mr. Williams went back to Kansas City and drew up the Katrina Urban Entrepreneur Partnership, borrowing from the core program but tailoring the new one to the needs of hurricane-affected small businesses.
 The Kauffman Foundation is to start the program this month, giving needy entrepreneurs intensive help to ensure that they get part of the cleanup and reconstruction work on the Gulf Coast. Concerns have been raised that minority-owned companies are not getting a fair share of the posthurricane business.
 ''We have got to connect these people -- and some of them have lost almost everything -- with experienced coaches who can help them,'' Mr. Williams said. The foundation is renting office space in New Orleans, bringing in professional business coaches on a rotating basis and identifying federally certified minority enterprises -- beginning with demolition, construction and rebuilding businesses -- that can benefit from such assistance.
 One such business owner is Byron Stewart, 49, whose architectural firm, Byron J. Stewart & Associates, in the Uptown neighborhood of New Orleans, was flooded. He and his family fled Katrina, and he returned to find the first-floor office of his Victorian-style frame house under four feet of water. His residence upstairs was undamaged, but Mr. Stewart had to start his 15-year-old business almost from scratch.
 The only reason he has a business at all, he said, is that he grabbed his computer hard drive and his laptop as he left. But his business is limping along. Finances are at the point, he said, ''where it's scary,'' and he's not sure whether he can pay the bills and himself and his four employees, who have been working from their homes. 
 Still, even though he has inquiries about architectural commissions, he said he was cautious because he wanted to create a business plan that would help him weather future economic downturns. In 2004, a stagnant economy in the New Orleans area caused his revenues, usually about $850,000, to dip substantially, by $300,000.
 ''Now there are plenty of jobs because of the amount of work that needs to be done,'' he said, ''but I am going to take a slower approach because I want to grow my business for the long term.'' 
 To reach his goal of generating $2 million in yearly revenues, Mr. Stewart said he would open his financial records to one of the Kauffman Foundation's coaches, who, among other tasks, will help him analyze them, create a cash flow and evaluate which projects can be profitable.
 The Kauffman project also plans to connect minority entrepreneurs like Mr. Stewart with large established businesses that are not necessarily in the Gulf region but could help them form joint ventures and partnerships to bid on federal and private contracts. 
 To get the effort going, Kauffman is committing up to $1 million this year to help as many as 1,000 businesses, and expects that Louisiana economic development authorities and national groups like the Business Roundtable, a group of about 160 chief executives of major corporations, will donate top expertise and financial assistance to the Katrina Urban Entrepreneur effort.
 ''We have businesses down in the Gulf which might have two or three trucks,'' said Kermit Thomas, a consultant to the Kauffman Foundation, ''but contracts that require 200 to 300 trucks. So we are trying to use the existing U.E.P. offices to find companies in their areas to pair up with businesses in New Orleans and the Gulf which have the experience and know-how, but who don't have the resources to be able to bid successfully on a contract.''
 That is what Keith Tillage, of the Tillage Construction Company in Baton Rouge, La., hopes to do. The business he runs and owns with his father, Kevin, was not wiped out, but like many businesses in the area, it is confronted with the disappearance of established clients and the post-Katrina era confusion.
 Mr. Tillage said he welcomed the ''intrusive'' coaching, which will most likely come from Michael Dayton, a lead Kauffman coach who will give him frank advice on every aspect of his business.
 For example, such advice has already led Mr. Tillage to pass up bidding on a large contract to provide trailers for housing.
 ''It was tempting because it was serious money,'' he said, ''but then they asked us, 'Do you want to be in the trailer maintenance business 10 years down the road?' And we know that's not where we want to be.''
 Mr. Dayton, a former chief financial officer for a community development organization, said his goal was to help Tillage, which now employs seven workers, ''to build its capacity to deliver and develop strategies to find clients.''
 ''We will sit down with them, side by side,'' he said. ''They have a business to operate, so it could take a year or more, but we want them to be in this for the long run.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: REBUILDING -- Byron Stewart, left, an architect in New Orleans, discussing a proposal with Melvin Irvin, a developer. After the destruction by Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Stewart found his business nearly back to square one. (Photo by Lee Celano for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (94%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%) Inventions and Patents; Small Business; Copyrights; Inventions and Patents

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (57%) United States Patent and Trademark Office

PERSON: Bernard Stamler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



468 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Less Stress, and Finding Great Neck

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: GREAT NECK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In the annals of American newcomers, there must be relatively few immigrants like the Shins. They are an affluent couple in their 40's with two teenage children. They were well established in their careers in Seoul. And then, last July, Maria Shin came to the United States for her first visit, carrying a pocket translator, a laptop and a map on which she had marked out the best American schools with sizable Asian populations.
 She visited Scarsdale. ''A little bit too much,'' she said, meaning it was a little too expensive.
 She visited the suburbs of Los Angeles. ''Too much fun,'' she said, referring to what she perceived as California goofiness. 
 Then she came to this community on the North Shore of Long Island, where houses cost $1 million and the schools are known for producing Ivy League-bound graduates.
 ''Great Neck is where we chose,'' she said in halting English, which she works to improve in conversation classes two or three times a week at the Adult Education Center here. ''Here are many Asians. And here my children have more more chance to live normal.''
 The chance to live normal is a relative value and might mean many different things to different people. But among a growing group of monied Chinese and South Korean newcomers arriving in this community of 40,000 in Nassau County, there is a strong feeling of what it means: the chance to spare their children the grinding competition and unrelieved pressure of scholastic life in their homelands. 
 Like immigrants in every past wave, Asian newcomers most often cite the desire to improve their children's lot as a reason for uprooting their families. But it's a subtly different desire, too.
 There are economic and educational opportunities aplenty in China and South Korea, after all. The rub seems to be in the single-mindedness demanded of children who wish to access those opportunities.
 ''Too much pressure, the children,'' said Fu Hong, 34, whose 5-year-old son was born in Shanghai just before she and her husband, a manufacturer's representative with interests in several factories, moved to a house in Great Neck. Their daughter was born here in 2002. ''A lot of pressure. Here, he has fun. Skate. Swim. Aikido.''
 Ike Yuh, a former importer, sold his house, cashed in his business and arrived in Great Neck from Seoul seven months ago with his wife, a pharmacist, and their 15-year-old son, Joshua. They live for now in a two-bedroom apartment near the train station.
 ''It is very strict, very hard for the children,'' he said of life in South Korea. ''They study 7 a.m. to midnight. Too much. No time. No time for human.'' 
 Joshua now plays saxophone in the Great Neck South High School band, and is picking up the guitar, his father said.
 It is not the first time in recent years that well-off immigrants have settled in Great Neck. Thirty years ago, affluent Jews fleeing the Islamic theocracy of Iran came to Great Neck by the hundreds if not thousands. They came not only for the first-rate schools and because it was one of America's premier suburbs, but because since the 1950's and 60's Great Neck has been predominantly Jewish.
 For the past 10 years, though, Chinese and South Koreans from Flushing, Bayside and other Queens neighborhoods have been making the short hop over the Nassau County border to settle in Great Neck. That trend, and the myriad social and cultural connections forged by it, seems to have made possible the newest trend among families like the Shins -- those moving here directly from China and South Korea, a move that demographers say is a new pattern of immigrants making the suburbs their first home. 
 As of last year, the overall Great Neck school population was 20 percent Asian. At Great Neck South High School, one of two high schools in the district, the Asian population was more than 30 percent.
 ''Could we become a majority Asian district in 10 years?'' mused Ronald Friedman, the superintendent of Great Neck schools. ''Who knows? It's possible.''
 Though their numbers are difficult to establish, those who come directly from Asia seem to be the fastest-growing sector among Asians in Great Neck. And though their experience conforms in many ways to that of all immigrants -- the struggle to acquire new language skills, to adapt to new cultural norms -- it is also in some ways a unique experience.
 The economic miracles that have transformed China and South Korea into manufacturing and technology dynamos have been fed in large part by educational systems in which young people are said to face intense, all-or-nothing competition for top honors. Published reports have described six-day school weeks, 8- to-10-hour school days, after-school tutoring in so-called cram schools and a relentless pressure to conform.
 To some observers, it is ironic that in fleeing such intensity the newcomers have landed in Great Neck, where there is as competitive a school environment as exists anywhere in the United States. Great Neck is known for its own cram schools. S.A.T. tutoring begins for some in the seventh grade. There is a cottage industry of piano teachers, fencing instructors, writing coaches and tutors who specialize not in remedial foreign language study but in the perfection of accent and idiom.
 But if anything, the newcomers moving in are occupying more than just the physical real estate of Great Neck, a place that unself-consciously incorporates within its boundaries a community named Lake Success. They are inhabiting, also, its real estate of aspiration.
 ''In the last five to seven years, half my business has been tutoring Chinese and Korean students who are getting straight A's in school and who want an even more intensive experience,'' said Beth Berney, the proprietor and sole staff member of the Beth Berney Language Center in Great Neck, one of dozens of private tutoring businesses in the community. ''The parents are extremely motivated; the kids are extremely motivated. It's a pleasure. I'm having a wonderful time.''
 If there is tension between the old and the new ethnic communities in this suburb, it is subdued and for the most part invisible. In 2001, a letter published in the Great Neck South High School newspaper contained derogatory remarks about Asian immigrants, and prompted several meetings between school officials and members of the well-organized Great Neck Chinese Association, a group representing about 400 families, its president, Pat Lo, said.
 ''It was an unpleasant incident, but it is long ago, and I think everyone learned from it,'' she said. ''Our goal is to remain here and to contribute to this community. It is a great community.''
 There are other places attracting affluent Asian immigrants. Northern New Jersey and the suburbs of Boston and Chicago also have well-established Asian communities that newcomers consider suitable. But Great Neck's appeal, according to many of those interviewed, is rooted not only in its proximity to New York but its particular closeness to the cultural infrastructure of Flushing, which is the largest of New York City's three Chinatowns and one of the largest Asian hubs in America. The oldest Chinatown in New York, of course, is the one in Manhattan; the third-largest is in Sunset Park, Brooklyn.
 As for the enclave in Flushing, ''It has the restaurants, grocery stores and shopping that people need,'' said Rachel Sha, who immigrated from Shanghai as a student in 1985 and now lives in Great Neck. And there is the bus line, the N21, which connects Great Neck and Flushing and has become the link for those seeking Chinese or Korean-speaking domestic or child-care help, she said.
 But overwhelmingly, the single most-often-cited appeal of Great Neck for Asian newcomers is the schools, and in particular one school. ''Great Neck South High School,'' said Mr. Yuh, the South Korean importer who arrived seven months ago after an exhaustive online search for the right schools for his son. ''After that, then M.I.T.'' 
 Scholars and demographers describe three major waves of Asian settlers in the United States in the last 40 years: those who arrived from Taiwan and Hong Kong in the 70's and 80's, Koreans and Chinese who came as students in the 1990's and, most recently, the new entrepreneurs from China and Korea.
 Among the first two groups, the most common route to Great Neck was through progressively more affluent neighborhoods in Queens: Flushing, Elmhurst and, mainly, Bayside.
 And like the previous groups, the newest arrivals are coming as families. For some, however, there is a catch. In parts of Great Neck there are enclaves of women whose husbands have moved them and their children from China but are often absent, traveling between China and the United States, some as garment buyers for American retailers and others employed in various professions.
 ''The women left at home have what I call the 'married single life,' '' said Lena Huang, a guidance counselor at the Adult Learning Center in Great Neck, which is operated by the school district. ''Their husbands are here one month, gone one month,'' she said, ''and the women for the most part are quite isolated. There is a lot of sadness.''
 Four years ago, Sherry Fan came to Great Neck from Beijing with her 10-year-old son, Frank.
 His asthma was constantly aggravated by the infamously polluted air of Beijing. Here, he has had few respiratory problems. But she and Frank's father, a television director and actor, see each other only intermittently. For her, ''sometimes life is a little boring.''
 Her life revolves around a small community of friends, her English conversation classes, which she takes four times a week, and driving her son to lessons after school. He takes piano, painting, dance, karate and swimming.
 ''He has friends,'' she said of her son, upstairs in his bedroom in their Great Neck town house. ''They call him. I hear him speaking on phone, speak English. I am very happy. He have opportunities here. My husband wants him here.''
 Will she return to China when her son is finished with school?
 ''Seven more years before he finish college. Then? I don't know,'' she said. ''Whatever he will do, where he will go, I will go. To give the boy good life. That is all.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Shin, center, and her husband, Inho, moved to Great Neck from Seoul, seeking a less pressured academic life for their two teenage children. At right, Sherry Fan and her son, Frank, 14. He takes piano, painting, dance, karate and swimming after school. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Ike Yuh, from South Korea, is among a growing number of immigrants leaving the strict regimen of Asian schools and moving to the United States. He studies English at the Adult Learning Center in Great Neck. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (77%); REFUGEES (73%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (64%) Education and Schools; Immigration and Refugees; Chinese-Americans; Korean-Americans

PERSON: Paul Vitello

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (74%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (92%) New York City; Great Neck (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



469 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: An Identity Crisis Looms in Washington

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
FIRST they had no home. Then they had no owner. Now they may not have a name.
 Such is the plight of the Washington Nationals, a team that also, incidentally, has no lease for the new park that is supposed to become its home. What do the Nationals have? A lot of aggravation, that's what.
Once it was obvious that it would be moving, the team that played as the Montreal Expos had what seemed like an interminable wait to find out where it would be going. More than a year after the Expos were relocated to Washington, the team is still owned by Major League Baseball. 
 Eight prospective ownership groups await word of the winning bid, but Commissioner Bud Selig has withheld a decision pending completion of a lease for the new park to be built along the Anacostia River. A dispute with the District of Columbia Council has delayed completion of the lease.
 This will be the fifth season the Expos/Nationals will begin with no independent owner to make economic and player decisions unaffected by Major League Baseball. This will be the second season the team will be known as the Nationals. But will it be known as the Nationals for long?
 Actually, the team can be the Nationals forever more, but the Nationals may not want to be the Nationals because they may not be allowed to sell merchandise under that name, and who in professional sports wants to have a name that cannot be marketed for financial gain?
 Did someone say, ''Oops''?
 Last week the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted a request by Bygone Sports, a Cincinnati company that specializes in historic trademarks and historic sports apparel, for federal trademark registration on the name Washington Nationals. The company applied for the trademark in September 2002.
 Major League Baseball was aware of the Bygone Sports link to the name and thought it had reached an agreement with the company for the rights to the name. 
 ''We believe we own the name and the rights,'' said John McHale Jr., a baseball executive vice president. ''We struck a deal prior to the announcement with the people who claimed they owned the name, and we've been fighting to get that agreement enforced. They didn't live up to the agreement.''
 Roger Kaplan, the lawyer for Bygone Sports, said baseball contended the two sides reached an oral agreement Nov. 12, 2004, 10 days before the team was designated the Nationals, but Kaplan said they had reached only a preliminary agreement. ''All the terms and conditions had not been fully discussed,'' he said.
 Furthermore, Kaplan said yesterday, the two sides were not able to put the agreement in writing and had agreed not to be bound by the agreement until it was in writing. Whether there is an enforceable agreement is one of the subjects of a case in federal court in Manhattan.
 Each side sued the other and awaits a decision, expected this month, on cross motions for summary judgment on some issues. If the case goes forward on any issue, a trial is scheduled to begin before Judge Jed Rackoff on April 3, the day the team opens its second season as the Nationals.
 One element of the dispute the two sides do not dispute is that at some point Bygone Sports raised its asking price to cede the trademark rights to baseball. The price went to $1.5 million from $130,000. It also included a $10,000 advertising credit on MLB.com and four tickets to the Nationals' opener in 2005.
 ''For two weeks after the team was named, Bygone was prepared to move forward on the original amount,'' Kaplan said. But because of baseball's negotiating position, he added, the company believed it no longer had to adhere to the original terms. 
 Once negotiations collapsed, the lawsuits erupted.
 Baseball sued Bygone Sports last June, accusing the company of wanting to ''turn a quick, undeserved profit'' by seeking trademark registration rights to the name Nationals. The company had applied for those rights nearly three years earlier, long before Major League Baseball knew there would be a Washington Nationals in its future.
 In countersuing in July, Bygone Sports accused Major League Baseball of failing to do its homework, suggesting that it had not researched the name to know that someone else had claimed it. Baseball, of course, had researched the name, which is why it engaged in negotiations for rights to it. 
 Aside from the technicalities and timing of developments, Major League Baseball says that ''Nationals'' is a name that belongs to it because of its historic use.
 The Nationals name was first used for a Washington team in 1884, when the team played in the Union Association. The American League franchise that played in Washington for 60 years, from 1901 through 1960, was known as the Senators. So was the expansion team that played in Washington from 1961 through 1971. 
 But the teams were alternately, if not formally, called the Nationals and the Nats, short for Nationals.
 This is all for Rackoff to sort out. If he should rule for Bygone Sports, Major League Baseball would have a decision to make, aside from deciding whether to appeal the ruling. Would it retain the Nationals name but not be able to sell Nationals shirts, caps, jackets and other paraphernalia?
 ''You wouldn't be able to go to the ballpark and buy a shirt or cap with the team name on it,'' Kaplan said.
 McHale said, ''I think it's likely that we would change if we're not correct.'' 
 Meanwhile, this star-crossed team goes about its business with no owner, no new ballpark, no lease for the new ballpark and an uncertain name. That's the modern-day litany for the capital's team. It replaces the old one: Washington -- first in war, first in peace, last in the American League.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The On Baseball column yesterday, about a legal dispute over the trademark of the Washington franchise's Nationals nickname, misstated the surname of the Federal District Court judge in Manhattan who will preside over a trial if the case is not settled before April 3. He is Jed Rakoff, not Rackoff.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nationals, like the departed Vinny Castilla, may soon be a thing of the past. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); TRADEMARKS (89%); TRADEMARK LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (86%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); PATENTS (69%); LAWYERS (66%) Baseball; Stadiums and Arenas; Names, Organizational

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL EXPOS (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%) Washington Nationals

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%) QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



470 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Unveils a Plan With Cash to Rebuild Homes

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
With thousands of ruined homeowners here watching weeks turn into months without assistance, Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana for the first time unveiled a real package of assistance on Monday, proposing to use federal money for loans and grants that aides said would spur rebuilding in devastated areas. 
 For months an unpromising brew of competing ideas, inadequate money and political fighting has left Louisiana homeowners devastated by Hurricane Katrina in limbo, wondering where to turn for help. Some have returned and are rebuilding on their own, but many thousands more remain in exile, without the money needed to come back and start over. More than 330,000 homes sustained some damage, state officials say. 
Officials here said the state's $7.5 billion proposal, which offers up to $150,000 in grants to repair or rebuild, along with inexpensive loans, would not have been possible without the $4.2 billion in new money promised by President Bush last week, and $6.2 billion allocated last year. 
 The plan for the first time included incentives for lower-income homeowners to return to South Louisiana and repair their homes, or build anew.
 Until now, attention has been focused on the idea of buying out acres of ruined homes with government money, then redeveloping the land. But that has generated concern in New Orleans that lower-income residents may be tempted to take the buyout cash and move elsewhere, leaving the city smaller, whiter and more middle-class.
 The proposals offered Monday appear to point the rebuilding in a different direction. Buyouts are de-emphasized: those seeking them would get only 60 percent of the value of their former homes, with a maximum of $150,000; in contrast, under a popular proposal by Representative Richard H. Baker, Republican of Louisiana, the 60 percent figure was a minimum. 
 Instead of simply handing ruined homeowners a lump-sum check, as Mississippi proposes to do, the ideas outlined Monday emphasize a combination of cash, and low or no-interest loans with the purpose of encouraging repairing and rebuilding. 
 A homeowner with a $60,000 mortgage who lived outside the flood plain, and thus had no insurance, might get an $89,500 grant toward a new $120,000 home, and a $20,000 no-cost loan. 
 A wealthier homeowner facing $170,000 in repairs, and with a payout from the insurance company of $150,000, might get a $9,500 state grant, assuming a FEMA payment of $10,500, in another example given Monday. 
 ''We are providing ways to keep homeowners as homeowners,'' said Andy Kopplin, executive director of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, created by Ms. Blanco. ''You can successfully rebuild South Louisiana with the package we have proposed.'' 
 Mr. Kopplin noted that a major difference between the new plan and Mr. Baker's was in providing for inexpensive loans. 
 Early reviews suggested that even in New Orleans, where local leaders have agitated for their own buyout plan, also capped at $150,000, the new proposal might have hit the mark.
 Bush administration officials, including the president, have repeatedly urged Louisiana to come up with a workable housing plan. Several here suggested the new proposals might come close. 
 ''I commend them for it,'' said Mtumishi St. Julien, chairman of the housing subcommittee of the Bring New Orleans Back commission, Mayor C. Ray Nagin's rebuilding panel. ''The fear in New Orleans has been about a buyout. People need to be made whole, but the very first priority is to bring our people home. This was designed to bring our people home.'' 
 Barry Erwin, president of the Council for a Better Louisiana, a nonprofit group in Baton Rouge, said the plan seemed reasonable. 
 ''It's not just a blank check,'' he said. ''If you look at it over all, it seems pretty well balanced. Nobody makes out like gangsters. This one has a dollar amount, and it sort of assumes the little guy will have a more difficult time with resources.''
 Many details remain to be worked out, notably the mechanics of getting money into the hands of homeowners. Ms. Blanco has proposed a telephone call center where homeowners could begin registering their claims, starting next month. Her proposal to create an agency to distribute the money was shot down last Friday by the State Legislature, newly aggressive in the face of a governor whose authority is perceived to have been weakened in the wake of the storm. Some legislators invoked a familiar criticism of the governor, accusing her of being too keen to create state agencies. 
 Still, state officials said alternative means could be found for getting the money to homeowners, including using existing state agencies familiar with administering housing aid programs, of which there are several. 
 More than six months after the storm, speed is essential, several said. 
 ''We've just got so many people who are just hanging on by their fingertips,'' said John Neely Kennedy, the state treasurer. ''It's time to get some money to these people. To this day, we haven't gotten a dime to homeowners.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Owners of flood-damaged homes, like these in the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans, will be offered adequate money to rebuild, officials say. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); WEATHER (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); FLOOD ZONES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Adam Nossiter; Kathleen Babineaux (Gov) Blanco

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



471 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: When a Longer Life Costs Too Much

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Setting a price at whatever level the market will bear for the cancer drug Avastin is an outrageous affront to taxpayers. 
 While it is fair that Genentech and Roche receive a generous return on their investment, this drug and every other drug coming to market are developed with considerable support from government financing.
A search of the National Institutes of Health grant awards database, for instance, finds 11 grants related to Avastin (or bevacizumab, its generic name) since 2002, many of which supported clinical trials for the drug. Genentech and its majority owner, Roche, have also benefited from extensive government financing of basic research. 
 Why do drug companies feel so strongly about unfettered markets on the revenue side, when they rely on subsidies on the cost side? Don't we taxpayers, too, deserve some return on our investment? 

Chris Woodruff
La Jolla, Calif., Feb. 15, 2006

The writer is an associate professor of economics, University of California, San Diego.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (90%); CANCER (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (88%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (88%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Cancer; Avastin (Drug); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Lungs; Breast; Colon

COMPANY: ROCHE HOLDING AG (92%); GENENTECH INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) Genentech Inc; Roche Holding Ltd; Genentech Inc

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: Chris Woodruff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



472 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: For G.M. In Russia, Parts Dispute Is Only a Start

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
General Motors, which in the United States struggles with ballooning pension and benefits payments, among other things, has more basic troubles in Russia -- the company was without engines for 11 days this month. 
 G.M. said Monday that it had settled a dispute with a Russian business partner over the price of engines and other parts, and that production would resume Tuesday.
The partners, which are in a joint venture, said in a statement only that the assembly line in the industrial city of Togliatti, more than 500 miles southeast of Moscow, would ''go back to work.'' The statement shed no light on the settlement terms.
 Automotive analysts who follow the Russian market cautioned that G.M., the world's largest carmaker, still had a rough road ahead. 
 Behind the recent dispute lies a change of leadership two months ago at the Russian partner, Avtovaz. Its board was taken over by government officials amid a general trend toward greater state control of the Russian economy.
 That enmeshed G.M. in the politics of the domestic auto industry, which a few years ago embraced foreign investment but has since taken on a nationalistic bent. 
 The federal agency for industry, Rosprom, last week proposed investing money from the Russian oil-windfall fund into a huge new automotive works, to be built from a merger of Avtovaz and other struggling domestic manufacturers. The new factory would build cars, minivans and sport utility vehicles, and be able to produce nearly half a million cars a year. 
 That could make G.M.'s cooperation with Avtovaz, which builds S.U.V.'s, less than essential, leading analysts to speculate that there were larger issues at stake in the dispute over engine prices. 
 In December, Rosprom's director, Boris S. Alyoshin, won a seat on the board of Avtovaz, along with other representatives of the government and of a state-owned weapons trading company. They are pressing Russian leaders for subsidies to build the new Russian-owned factory. 
 Messages left at G.M.'s office in Moscow went unanswered Monday. A spokesman for Avtovaz declined to comment on the two companies' dealings. A spokeswoman for the G.M. joint venture also declined to comment, as did a spokesman for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a minority investor in the venture. 
 Gairat B. Salimov, an automotive analyst at Troika, an investment firm here, explained: ''They don't want to show which one of them gave up what'' in the settlement. ''I don't know if this is the end of their dispute, or just a truce.'' 
 Mr. Salimov said that any new Russian automotive works could not begin production sooner than 2009 and would entail substantial risks, suggesting that the G.M. venture was not facing an immediate threat.
 In addition, the Russian ministry for economic development, which has opposed using oil windfalls to prop up domestic industry against foreign competition, has not signed off on the plan, a spokeswoman, Alla O. Borisenkova, said Monday in a telephone interview. ''It's not a settled issue,'' she said. ''They are thinking about it. That's all for now.'' 
 At the core of all this maneuvering is one of Europe's fastest-growing automotive markets, as Russia's middle class grows amid rising revenue from oil exports. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (87%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); JOINT VENTURES (77%); MINIVANS (76%); MERGERS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLITICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (67%) Automobiles; Engines ; Production; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Automobiles; Slowdowns and Job Actions

COMPANY: AVTOVAZ OAO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Rosprom (Co); Avtovaz (Co)

TICKER: AVAZ (RTS) (92%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



473 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Mittal Steel Executive Finds Support for a Takeover Bid

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI; Anand Giridharadas contributed reporting from New Delhi for this article.

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
The $22.7 billion bid by Lakshmi N. Mittal's steel company for a rival, Arcelor, has stirred up vigorous resistance in Europe. But when Mr. Mittal came to his Indian homeland this past weekend to drum up support for his cause, he received a warm welcome, including an appointment with the prime minister.
 Mr. Mittal's visit over the weekend followed a whirlwind tour of Europe, where he has gone on a charm offensive to sell the takeover bid. 
Mr. Mittal met with several Indian cabinet ministers on his visit and with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday, a day before President Jacques Chirac of France began an official state visit to enhance economic relations between the two countries.
 In an hourlong interview at his home in New Delhi, Mr. Mittal said he was confident that a merger of the two companies was ''inevitable.''
 In a separate telephone interview, Mr. Mittal brushed aside suggestions that his takeover of Arcelor could result in a clash of business cultures. ''Mittal Steel employs 240,000 people of 45 nationalities, we are based in Rotterdam and also listed in the New York Stock Exchange,'' he said. ''There is nothing Indian or British or American about Mittal Steel. It is simply one of the world's most profitable steel multinationals.''
 Mr. Mittal, 55, flew into New Delhi on Friday with former President Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, for the lavish wedding of the New York hotelier Vikram Chatwal to Priya Sachdev, an actress.
 Mr. Mittal said that his company was ''working with various European governments and, while regulatory processes are on, we continue to meet Arcelor's shareholders.'' 
 He said he would not yield in pursuing consolidation of his global steel empire. ''Only then can we deliver more value to our shareholders,'' he said.
 Consolidation in the industry is a widely hailed global trend that is expected to help manage output and price, and, in the longer term, safeguard companies and their employees from competition from low-cost centers like China.
 Mittal Steel already is the biggest steel company in the world. A combination with Arcelor, the world's second-biggest steel company, would create a giant with a leading position in the Americas, Europe and Africa and annual revenue of nearly $70 billion. Its output would be more than its three closest competitors put together. 
 But the takeover bid, announced last month, has been far from smooth, setting off vociferous protests in Europe from both politicians and labor unions who said they feared job losses, including 30,000 jobs in France alone. European governments and Arcelor's executives have raised questions about Mr. Mittal's Indian roots, his management style and the fact that his son occupies a top position in the family-owned company.
 The sensitivity of the bid was underlined at a news conference after talks between Mr. Chirac and Mr. Singh. Both Mr. Chirac and Mr. Singh suggested that they had discussed the Mittal bid but had not agreed. While Mr. Chirac said he had nothing against a non-European bidding on a European company, he went on, ''It is equally the right of Europeans to care about the jobs, their future.'' 
 Mr. Mittal still holds an Indian passport despite having lived in London for several decades. In his home country, his peers in the industry are quick to defend and praise his management style as well as his business drive. 
 He also has backing in the Indian government. Last week, India's commerce minister, Kamal Nath, wrote a protest letter to Peter Mandelson, the European trade commissioner, hinting that the continuing World Trade Organization negotiations could be derailed if members of the European Union blocked market opportunities for Mittal Steel. 
 ''Such deals should be judged not by the color of the passport but by the merits of the deal,'' Mr. Nath said in a telephone interview. He said the European Union was suffering from the pangs of globalization. ''Europe has to read the writing on the wall, they should understand the new economic architecture in the world.''
 In Mr. Mittal's case, Arcelor board members and critics have noted that his steel empire is 88 percent owned by the family, not the transparent structure ideal for good corporate governance. Mr. Mittal's 30-year-old son, Aditya Mittal, is the chief financial officer of the group and his sister is a member of the board.
 ''If the family owns 88 percent, you need to be concerned about who they are working for, the shareholders or themselves,'' said Charles Bradford, a metals analyst in New York for Soleil Securities.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about efforts by Lakshmi N. Mittal to gather support in India for his steel company's bid for a rival, Arcelor, misstated the whereabouts of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton over the weekend. She was in Niagara Falls, N.Y., Washington and Albany; she did not accompany Mr. Mittal and Bill Clinton to New Delhi for a wedding.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lakshmi Mittal, foreground, is Mittal Steel's chief
 his son, Aditya Mittal, left, is its chief financial officer. (Photo by Francois Lenoir/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (78%); MERGERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); RIOTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (61%) Steel and Iron; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Demonstrations and Riots; Steel and Iron

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (92%); ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Mittal Steel; Arcelor

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (92%); MT (PAR) (92%); MT (NYSE) (92%); MT (AMS) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (92%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (92%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (92%)

PERSON: LAKSHMI N MITTAL (94%); ADITYA MITTAL (79%); MANMOHAN SINGH (77%); BILL CLINTON (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (54%) Lakshmi N Mittal; Manmohan (Prime Min) Singh; Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (91%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) EUROPE (96%); INDIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006



474 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Why Doctors So Often Get It Wrong

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
ON a weekend day a few years ago, the parents of a 4-year-old boy from rural Georgia brought him to a children's hospital here in north Atlanta. The family had already been through a lot. Their son had been sick for months, with fevers that just would not go away.
 The doctors on weekend duty ordered blood tests, which showed that the boy had leukemia. There were a few things about his condition that didn't add up, like the light brown spots on the skin, but the doctors still scheduled a strong course of chemotherapy to start on Monday afternoon. Time, after all, was their enemy.
 John Bergsagel, a soft-spoken senior oncologist, remembers arriving at the hospital on Monday morning and having a pile of other cases to get through. He was also bothered by the skin spots, but he agreed that the blood test was clear enough. The boy had leukemia. 
 ''Once you start down one of these clinical pathways,'' Dr. Bergsagel said, ''it's very hard to step off.''
 What the doctors didn't know was that the boy had a rare form of the disease that chemotherapy does not cure. It makes the symptoms go away for a month or so, but then they return. Worst of all, each round of chemotherapy would bring a serious risk of death, since he was already so weak.
 With all the tools available to modern medicine -- the blood tests and M.R.I.'s and endoscopes -- you might think that misdiagnosis has become a rare thing. But you would be wrong. Studies of autopsies have shown that doctors seriously misdiagnose fatal illnesses about 20 percent of the time. So millions of patients are being treated for the wrong disease.
 As shocking as that is, the more astonishing fact may be that the rate has not really changed since the 1930's. ''No improvement!'' was how an article in the normally exclamation-free Journal of the American Medical Association summarized the situation. 
 This is the richest country in the world -- one where one-seventh of the economy is devoted to health care -- and yet misdiagnosis is killing thousands of Americans every year. 
 How can this be happening? And how is it not a source of national outrage?
 A BIG part of the answer is that all of the other medical progress we have made has distracted us from the misdiagnosis crisis. 
 Any number of diseases that were death sentences just 50 years ago -- like childhood leukemia -- are often manageable today, thanks to good work done by people like Dr. Bergsagel. The brightly painted pediatric clinic where he practices is a pretty inspiring place on most days, because it's just a detour on the way toward a long, healthy life for four out of five leukemia patients who come here.
 But we still could be doing a lot better. Under the current medical system, doctors, nurses, lab technicians and hospital executives are not actually paid to come up with the right diagnosis. They are paid to perform tests and to do surgery and to dispense drugs. 
 There is no bonus for curing someone and no penalty for failing, except when the mistakes rise to the level of malpractice. So even though doctors can have the best intentions, they have little economic incentive to spend time double-checking their instincts, and hospitals have little incentive to give them the tools to do so. 
 ''You get what you pay for,'' Mark B. McClellan, who runs Medicare and Medicaid, told me. ''And we ought to be paying for better quality.''
 There are some bits of good news here. Dr. McClellan has set up small pay-for-performance programs in Medicare, and a few insurers are also experimenting. But it isn't nearly a big enough push. We just are not using the power of incentives to save lives. For a politician looking to make the often-bloodless debate over health care come alive, this is a huge opportunity.
 Joseph Britto, a former intensive-care doctor, likes to compare medicine's attitude toward mistakes with the airline industry's. At the insistence of pilots, who have the ultimate incentive not to mess up, airlines have studied their errors and nearly eliminated crashes. 
 ''Unlike pilots,'' Dr. Britto said, ''doctors don't go down with their planes.''
 Dr. Britto was working at a London hospital in 1999 when doctors diagnosed chicken pox in a little girl named Isabel Maude. Only when her organs began shutting down did her doctors realize that she had a potentially fatal flesh-eating virus. Isabel's father, Jason, was so shaken by the experience that he quit his finance job and founded a company -- named after his daughter, who is a healthy 10-year-old today -- to fight misdiagnosis. 
 The company sells software that allows doctors to type in a patient's symptoms and, in response, spits out a list of possible causes. It does not replace doctors, but makes sure they can consider some unobvious possibilities that they may not have seen since medical school. Dr. Britto is a top executive.
 Not long after the founding of Isabel Healthcare, Dr. Bergsagel in Atlanta stumbled across an article about it and asked to be one of the beta testers. So on that Monday morning, when he couldn't get the inconsistencies in the boy's case out of his mind, he sat down at a computer in a little white room, behind a nurse's station, and entered the symptoms.
 Near the top of Isabel's list was a rare form of leukemia that Dr. Bergsagel had never seen before -- and that often causes brown skin spots. ''It was very much a Eureka moment,'' he said.
 There is no happy ending to the story, because this leukemia has much longer odds than more common kinds. But the boy was spared the misery of pointless chemotherapy and was instead given the only chance he had, a bone marrow transplant. He lived another year and a half. 
 Today, Dr. Bergsagel uses Isabel a few times a month. The company continues to give him free access. But his colleagues at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta can't use it. The hospital has not bought the service, which costs $80,000 a year for a typical hospital (and $750 for an individual doctor).
 Clearly, misdiagnosis costs far more than that. But in the current health care system, hospitals have no way to recoup money they spend on programs like Isabel. 
 We patients, on the other hand, foot the bill for all those wasted procedures and pointless drugs. So we keep getting them. Does that make any sense?

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The David Leonhardt column in Business Day on Wednesday, about physicians' misdiagnoses of fatal illnesses, referred imprecisely to the medical condition of a girl named Isabel Maude. She had a flesh-eating infection, known as necrotizing fasciitis; she did not have a virus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (90%); LEUKEMIA (90%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (90%); CANCER (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PEDIATRICS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); ONCOLOGY (76%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); AUTOPSIES (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (60%) Medicine and Health; Malpractice ; Death and Dying; Autopsies

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



475 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall as Signs of Strength Stir Fears of Higher Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday after a robust reading on the economy, minutes from the last meeting of the Federal Reserve and the continuation of a solid earnings season reinforced expectations of interest rate increases. 
 The sell-off began after the Conference Board said its index of leading economic indicators had risen sharply in January.
The index, a closely watched gauge of future economic activity, is designed to take the pulse of the economy in the near term. 
 It rose 1.1 percent in January, after an increase of 0.3 percent in December. 
 The economic indicator reading was almost twice as high as analysts had expected, providing one more sign that ''there's growth still there in the economy and the Fed's going to have to do its magic by continuing to raise interest rates,'' said Kim Caughey, an equity research analyst at the Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh. 
 Minutes from the most recent meeting of Fed policy makers underscored the point, with Fed governors saying further rate increases might be needed to keep ''continuing upside risks'' to inflation in check. 
 Strong results from Federated Department Stores and Home Depot could not distract the market from its interest rate worries. Less stellar results from Wal-Mart Stores further dimmed the mood on the Street. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 46.26 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,069.06. 
 Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 4.20 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,283.04, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 19.40 points, or 0.9 percent, to 2,262.96. 
 Declining issues led advancers about 11 to 9 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Bonds were lower, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note at 4.56 percent, up from 4.54 percent late Friday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, was down 7/32, at 9915/32. 
 Markets in the United States were closed Monday in observance of Washington's Birthday. 
 The dollar was mixed against other major currencies. Gold prices were higher. 
 Crude oil futures climbed after oil pipelines were attacked in Nigeria. A barrel of light crude oil settled at $61.10, up $1.22 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Corporate results have done little to ease concern about interest rates. The fourth-quarter earnings season is more than 85 percent complete and the Standard & Poor's 500 is on track to beat analysts' estimates for its total returns, according to J. P. Morgan Chase & Company. Growth in earnings per share is close to 14 percent, the 15th consecutive quarter that earnings growth has topped 10 percent. 
 ''Two months ago, a hike in May seemed not so likely; now it seems like a certainty,'' said Neil Massa, an equity trader at John Hancock Funds. 
 In company news, Federated Department Stores fell $1.23, to $70.40, after its 2006 earnings projection fell short of analysts' estimates. Fourth-quarter profit rose 59 percent from last year, aided by the acquisition of May Department Stores.
 Home Depot rose 1 cent, to $41.87, after it reported an increase of more than 23 percent in fourth-quarter profit on a solid increase in sales. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 5.5 percent in the fourth quarter and the results beat Wall Street expectations. 
 Wal-Mart Stores fell 36 cents, to $45.74, after fourth-quarter revenue fell short of Wall Street projections, and it forecast profit below analysts' estimates. Earnings rose 13.4 percent as aggressive holiday advertising helped sales rise 8.6 percent. 
 RadioShack fell 8 cents, to $19, after the company's board said Monday that it had accepted David J. Edmondson's resignation as president and chief executive.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auctions of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.875	97.702	High Rate	 4.450	 4.545	Investment Rate	 4.563	 4.716	Low Rate	 4.420	 4.510	Median Rate	 4.435	 4.535	Total applied for	$50,695,672	$43,793,432	Accepted	$27,496,097	$24,962,345	Noncompetitive	$2,224,167	$1,963,184	

Both issues are dated February 23, 2006. The three-month bills mature on May 25, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on August 24, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond-equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (87%); FUTURES (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); METALS MARKETS (76%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (71%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); RETAILERS (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Government Bonds

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (60%); MACY'S INC (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (60%); JPM (LSE) (60%); 8634 (TSE) (60%); M (NYSE) (55%); WMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



476 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Blackstone Buying MeriStar in Latest Hotel Deal 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Blackstone Group said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire the MeriStar Hospitality Corporation for about $2.6 billion, the fifth hotel takeover by Blackstone in the last year. 
 Blackstone said it would pay $10.45 a share for MeriStar, 5.2 percent more than its closing price on Friday. MeriStar, based in Bethesda, Md., owns 57 hotels under the Hilton, Holiday Inn, Sheraton, Ritz-Carlton and Westin brands. Blackstone will also assume $1.6 billion in debt, according to a MeriStar spokesman, Jerry Daly.
 Blackstone, a buyout firm based in New York, spent more than $3.7 billion in the last year to acquire the La Quinta Corporation, Wyndham International and the Rihga Royal Hotel in Manhattan. ''There are economies of scale you can enjoy as an owner when you have a large portfolio of assets as Blackstone has now,'' said Robert LaFleur, an analyst with the Susquehanna Financial Group in Stamford, Conn. ''At some point you may see Blackstone doing an I.P.O. of the portfolio.'' 
 A Blackstone spokesman, John A. Ford, declined to comment. 
 Earlier this month, Blackstone said it would buy nine Florida hotels and a golf-tennis club from MeriStar in a separate deal for $367 million. MeriStar properties include the Doral Desert Princess Resort in Palm Springs, Calif.; the Hilton Washington Embassy Row; and the Ritz-Carlton Pentagon City in Arlington, Va. 
 ''As Blackstone started to look at some of our assets they made an offer for the whole company which we felt was very attractive,'' Paul W. Whetsell, MeriStar's chief executive, said in a telephone interview. 
 Mr. Whetsell will resign after the purchase is completed, he said. Blackstone is likely to absorb MeriStar into its other hotel assets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (69%); DIVESTITURES (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); MERISTAR HOSPITALITY CORP (91%); LA QUINTA CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Meristar Hospitality Corp; Blackstone Group

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (70%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (75%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); VIRGINIA, USA (66%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



477 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Index of Leading Indicators Increases for a Fourth Month

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
An index of leading economic indicators in the United States rose for a fourth consecutive month as the labor market improved and manufacturing strengthened, pointing to faster economic growth.
 The Conference Board said yesterday that its index for January rose 1.1 percent, the biggest gain since June, after December's revised 0.3 percent increase. The last time the index rose for more than three months in a row was in 2004. 
 The rise follows reports this month showing that the economy gained momentum going into 2006, rebounding from the slowest quarterly growth in three years and suggesting that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates further to keep inflation under control. Economists raised forecasts for first-quarter growth after a report last week showed retail sales rose more than expected.
 The leading indicators exceeded all 51 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The median forecast was for a 0.6 percent increase after an initially reported 0.1 percent gain in December. Estimates ranged from 0.2 percent to 0.9 percent.
 Among leading indicators, claims for unemployment benefits fell, money supply and building permits rose and vendors had more trouble keeping up with factory orders.
 ''Some of the strength in building permits and claims may be weather-related and so this number probably won't be repeated, but there's been a strong recovery in the index since the hurricanes, and by and large we're seeing that in the economy as a whole,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn., who forecast an increase of 0.9 percent in the index.
 Six of the 10 segments that make up the index were positive last month. The decline in jobless claims contributed most to the rise in the index, adding 0.36 of a percentage point. The increase in the money supply was the next largest contributor, adding 0.34 of a percentage point.
 The Conference Board's index of coincident indicators, a gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent in January for a second consecutive month. The index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and projections.
 The group's gauge of lagging indicators rose 0.7 percent after a 0.1 percent decrease in December. The index measures business lending, length of unemployment, services prices and ratios of labor costs, inventories and consumer credit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RETAILERS (74%); WEATHER (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (69%); BUILDING PERMITS (66%); CONSUMER LENDING (60%); INTEREST RATES (55%) United States Economy; Leading Economic Indicators

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



478 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: President of Harvard Resigns, Ending Stormy 5-Year Tenure

BYLINE: This article is by Alan Finder, Patrick D. Healy and Kate Zernike.; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting from Washington for this article, Jonathan D. Glater from New York and Katie Zezima from Cambridge, Mass.

 BODY:
Lawrence H. Summers resigned yesterday as president of Harvard University after a relatively brief and turbulent tenure of five years, nudged by Harvard's governing corporation and facing a vote of no confidence from the influential Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
 The announcement by Dr. Summers, an economist and a former secretary of the Treasury, disappointed many students on the campus and raised questions about future leaders' ability to govern Harvard with its vocal and independent-minded faculty.
 But advisers and confidants of Dr. Summers said he privately concluded a week ago that he should step down, after members of Harvard's governing corporation and friends -- particularly from the Clinton administration -- made it clear that his presidency was lost.
 Dr. Summers, who earned a base salary of $563,000 in the 2004-5 academic year and received a 3 percent raise last July, is to leave office June 30. Derek C. Bok, 75, who was Harvard's president from 1971 to 1991, will serve as interim president until a permanent successor is found. 
 Hailed in his first days as a once-in-a-century leader, in the mold of perhaps Harvard's greatest president, Charles W. Eliot, Dr. Summers, 51, came into office with plans to expand the campus, put new focus on undergraduate education and integrate the university's schools. But he eventually alienated professors with a personal style that many saw as bullying and arrogant. 
 His well-known desire to change Harvard's culture, which he saw as complacent, was accompanied by slights to some faculty members and missteps like his statement last year that women might lack an intrinsic aptitude for math and science. 
 And some of his major decisions -- including overhauling the undergraduate curriculum, appointing deans and mapping out a new campus -- were hugely divisive at the 370-year-old university.
 ''I looked at the extent of the rancor that had emerged in parts of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences,'' Dr. Summers told reporters yesterday, ''and the extent to which for many I personally had become a large issue, and concluded very reluctantly that the agenda for the university that I cared about -- as well as my own satisfaction -- would be best served by stepping down.''
 Dr. Summers's decision came after three fractious weeks following the resignation of William C. Kirby, dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, and left the university divided. About 50 students waving signs that said ''Stay, Summers, Stay'' and chanting ''Larry, Larry'' rallied in Harvard Yard yesterday after the news broke. Dr. Summers appeared to cheers and dispensed high-fives. 
 At the same time, several prominent donors said they were aghast at Dr. Summers's fall. 
 ''How can anyone govern a university where a fraction of faculty members can force a president out?'' said Joseph O'Donnell, a Boston business executive who is a former member of Harvard's Board of Overseers and a prominent donor. 
 But several of Dr. Summers's faculty critics -- predominantly in the humanities and social sciences, but extended across the university -- said the president had made the right decision. 
 ''A strong leader is not just someone who can name a goal or force a change,'' said Mary C. Waters, a sociology professor, ''but someone who can bring out the best in people and find ways to encourage teamwork.''
 Though Harvard negotiated a university professorship for Dr. Summers -- the highest faculty position, with rights to teach in any department -- his friends said they did not know if he would take it. 
 His sabbatical year next year, they said, may be a moment for him to survey his opportunities, including Wall Street or the possibility of advising a Democratic presidential campaign. Several of these people declined to speak on the record because they did not want to be seen as divulging Dr. Summers's thoughts.
 But they were also not surprised at how his tenure ended. After last year's dispute over women in science and a no-confidence vote last March by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, several senior Harvard officials close to Dr. Summers wondered whether each faculty meeting would become a moment to rekindle no-confidence votes.
 ''Win or lose, he realized that it was going to be very difficult to govern and that the better part of valor was to step aside,'' said David R. Gergen, director of the university's Center for Public Leadership at the John F. Kennedy School of Government.
 Dr. Summers's aides and supporters had tried to find ways to save his presidency before the second no-confidence vote, set for next Tuesday. Dr. Summers also sought ideas from allies including another Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, Robert E. Rubin, who is a member of the seven-seat governing corporation, and Gene B. Sperling, a former economic adviser to Mr. Clinton.
 At times Dr. Summers had sounded as if he wanted to fight on, some of his confidants said, but in other moments he sounded weary. By the time he left for a ski vacation in Utah last Thursday, he had decided to resign, two aides said yesterday. 
 At the same time, corporation members -- particularly Nannerl O. Keohane, the former president of Duke University, and Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute -- began contacting professors to gauge their reaction to a resignation or even a forced dismissal. 
 Two Harvard faculty members, who spoke with several members of the corporation, said yesterday that they believed it was the corporation's idea, more than Dr. Summers's, that he step down. Members of the corporation did not respond to messages seeking comment. The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday that Dr. Summers was expected to resign this week.
 Dr. Summers said yesterday that he was not forced to quit, and he sounded enthusiastic about starting new research on international economics after his sabbatical. ''In the course of talking with a number of people about what to do,'' he said, ''I of course spoke to members of the corporation, but it was my decision.''
 While the resignation of Dr. Kirby -- and debate over whether he was forced out by Dr. Summers -- touched off the current faculty uproar, Dr. Summers's greater problem was the intense ill will and even loathing toward him within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the university's largest unit. 
 The controversies often became a distraction for administrators who were trying to focus on priorities like planning the next major fund-raising campaign. Still, officials said that annual fund-raising was not down.
 Dr. Summers apologized repeatedly for his communication skills, if not for his management. But his remarks about women in the sciences led to last year's 218-to-185 no-confidence vote, and, several professors said, that anger never dissipated.
 Professors at the School of Public Health considered a similar vote last year before forgoing one. Dr. Summers also had sharp critics at the Law School and the Graduate School of Education.
 ''There was no smoking gun, but there were innumerable brush fires,'' said one critic, Howard Gardner, a professor of cognition and education, referring to the controversies surrounding Dr. Summers.
 Since its founding in 1636, Harvard has ceded unusually strong power to its faculties over their different budgets, endowments and perquisites; the presidency, in turn, is designed to be a relatively weak office.
 But Dr. Summers enthusiastically filled the bully pulpit. He inveighed against grade inflation and demanded more rigor in teaching, two issues that came up in his private conversation in 2001 with Cornel West, then a professor of African and African-American studies. Dr. West said afterward that he felt insulted by Dr. Summers, and he soon left for Princeton University.
 Dr. Summers was more successful with students, who thrilled to the sight of the president's showing up at dances and study breaks, and signing dollar bills that bore his signature as Treasury secretary. In a weekend poll by The Harvard Crimson, the student daily, undergraduates backed him three to one.
 Josh Downer, 19, a freshman, who rallied for Dr. Summers yesterday, said he believed that disgruntled faculty had forced him out. ''The faculty is throwing a temper tantrum because the president set a bold agenda that doesn't necessarily align with the egos of the faculty,'' Mr. Downer said.
 But to many officials and professors, the rift had become personality-driven, and Dr. Summers had not changed his behavior after promising to do so.
 ''It's very hard for adults to change their personality, and Harvard needs a personality who can get all the faculty and schools to work together for the good of the university,'' said Bruce Alberts, a member of Harvard's Board of Overseers.
 Dr. Summers also offended some with what many saw as a style more suited to Washington than to Cambridge. He was driven in a black limousine with a license plate reading ''1636,'' the year of Harvard's founding; Dr. Bok, by contrast, had driven his own Volkswagen bus. And Dr. Summers hired his own public relations adviser, who had worked for Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain; she has since departed.
 Several professors said they resented the suggestion by Dr. Summers's supporters that he had been forced to resign because the Faculty of Arts and Sciences was simply intransigent.
 ''For all his extraordinary talents, he just hasn't provided the kind of leadership to the university that people were prepared to follow,'' said Harry R. Lewis, a professor of computer science and the former dean of Harvard College, who stepped down in 2003 after disagreeing frequently with Dr. Summers.
 Other professors said they hoped the next president of Harvard would be no less forceful than Dr. Summers in the cause of the school's agenda.
 ''I hope people don't conclude from this episode that university presidents must be cautious souls with muted voices,'' said Michael J. Sandel, a professor of government. ''What Harvard needs now is an activist president of bold vision, along with the ability to inspire others to help carry it through.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Feb. 22 about the resignation of Harvard's president, Lawrence H. Summers, misidentified the car driven by Derek Bok when he held that office. Dr. Bok (whose tastes were contrasted with Dr. Summers's limousine-riding style) drove a Volkswagen Beetle, not a Volkswagen bus.
A front-page article on Feb. 22 about the resignation of Harvard's president, Lawrence H. Summers, misidentified the car driven by Derek Bok when he held that office. Dr. Bok (whose tastes were contrasted with Dr. Summers's limousine-riding style) drove a Volkswagen Beetle, not a Volkswagen bus.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lawrence H. Summers, with supporters, before his statement. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)(pg. A1)
 Surrounded by students and journalists, Lawrence H. Summers announced his resignation yesterday as president of Harvard University. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. B7)Chart: ''A Turbulent Year''Jan. 14 -- At a conference, Harvard's president, Lawrence H. Summers, suggests that differences in ''intrinsic aptitude'' might explain why fewer women succeed in science and math.Feb. 15 -- At the first full meeting of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences after the remarks, some of the university's most influential professors express dissatisfaction with his leadership.March 15 -- The Faculty of Arts and Sciences approves a resolution expressing a lack of confidence in Dr. Summers by a vote of 218 to 185, with 18 abstentions.May 16 -- The university announces it will spend at least $50 million over the next decade to recruit, support and promote women and members of underrepresented minority groups on faculty.July 30 -- Conrad K. Harper, the only African-American member on the university's governing board, resigns after the board grants Dr. Summers a 3 percent raise. In his resignation letter, Mr. Harper says that he feels Dr. Summers should resign.Nov. 15 -- A number of professors express new concerns about the leadership of Dr. Summers after The Harvard Crimson, the daily student newspaper, reports that he had planned to fire William C. Kirby, dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.Jan. 27 -- Dr. Kirby resigns. The Harvard Crimson later quotes unidentified officials who say Dr. Summers forced him out.Feb. 9 -- A second no-confidence vote is scheduled for Feb. 28.Feb. 21 -- Dr. Summers resigns.(Sources by news reports)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); DISMISSALS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (54%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Colleges and Universities; Women

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University ; Harvard University ; Harvard University 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (94%) Lawrence H Summers; Alan Finder; Patrick D Healy; Kate Zernike; Derek C Bok; William C Kirby

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



479 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Agency Offers a Cleaner, Quieter Leaf Blower

BYLINE: By CINDY CHANG

DATELINE: LA CRESCENTA, Calif., Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Leaf blowers, the most efficient way to keep lawns and sidewalks Desperate Housewives-immaculate, are a bane to both the air and the ear.
 In the Los Angeles area, home to a thriving landscaping industry and one of the worst smog problems in the nation, the regional air quality agency is offering cleaner, quieter machines at a discount to landscapers who turn in old ones. 
Officials of the South Coast Air Quality Management District, which has jurisdiction in Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside and San Bernardino Counties, hope eventually to put 1,500 of the new blowers into the hands of the landscaping workers who are the primary users of high-powered models.
 On Tuesday, 64 landscapers showed up at a gardening supply store here to take them up on the offer, buying 138 new blowers.
 The low-emission leaf blowers, which use four-stroke engines instead of two-stroke ones, are about five times cleaner than older models, said to Chung S. Liu, a scientist for the air quality agency. At 65 decibels, the blowers are still about as noisy as a busy street or a small orchestra. 
 ''The number of leaf blowers compared to lawnmowers is small, but per unit, the pollution is a lot more,'' said Mr. Liu, who said a single two-stroke blower could spew as much pollution in a year as 80 cars. He estimates that there are 50,000 leaf blowers operating in the Los Angeles area.
 The program is one of the first in the country to focus on leaf blowers. A lawnmower exchange instituted by the agency three years ago has eliminated about 12,000 high-polluting machines.
 The agency said the trade-in was a good alternative to leaf blower bans, which some cities adopted but which can be difficult to enforce. Officials from the nearby city of South Pasadena contacted the agency for help after repealing a gas-powered leaf blower ban a year ago because of the number of complaints about violations. Landscapers say that using electric leaf blowers or tools like brooms and rakes takes more time and raises costs.
 ''We decided to focus on better machines, because it's not economically viable to ban the machines,'' said Beatrice LaPisto-Kirtley, who is on the board of the agency and is also mayor of the city of Bradbury.
 Gilbert Rosas, who owns a landscaping firm, traded in a five-year-old blower on Tuesday for a low-emission model, which the air quality agency offered for $200, or more than half off. 
 ''The pollution is not too bad, but the noise factor is pretty big,'' Mr. Rosas said. ''This is supposed to be quieter, so I'll try it out and see how much power it has.''
 If the new machine blasts away leaves and debris with just as much power as the old, he will be back for more exchanges, he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Gonzalez, a worker for Stihl, maker of a new model of leaf blower, piled up ones being exchanged. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY (90%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); SMOG (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); JURISDICTION (72%) Leaf Blowers; Noise; Landscaping

PERSON: Cindy Chang

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif); California

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



480 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: For Minorities, Signs of Trouble In Foreclosures

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and RON NIXON; Vikas Bajaj reported from Cleveland for this article and Ron Nixon from New York.

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
Catrina V. Roberts, a single mother of four, joined a new, growing class of minority homeowners when she moved from her subsidized apartment to a two-story house in 1999.
 But Ms. Roberts fell behind on her payments and declared bankruptcy last year. Now, as she loses her modest home to foreclosure, Ms. Roberts may represent the vanguard of a worrying trend of retreat.
The housing boom of the last decade helped push minority home ownership rates above 50 percent for the first time in 2004 and the overall foreclosure rate below 1 percent. Social scientists laud these accomplishments because ownership can foster greater neighborhood stability and economic progress. President Bush cites rising minority ownership as a milestone achievement under his ''ownership society'' programs.
 But hidden behind such success stories lies a disturbing trend: in the last several years, neighborhoods with large poor and minority populations in places like Cleveland, Chicago, Philadelphia and Atlanta have experienced a sharp rise in foreclosures, in some cases more than a doubling, according to an analysis of court filings and other housing data by The New York Times and academic researchers. 
 The black home ownership rate even dipped slightly last year, according to the Census Bureau. 
 The increase in foreclosures could be the first of a wave of financial distress for many minority homeowners, experts say, because they are twice as likely as whites to have taken out expensive subprime mortgages, most of which will jump to higher interest rates in the next two years, according to an analysis of data that lenders disclose under the federal Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. 
 Subprime loans, which are made to borrowers with credit histories that the industry considers less than prime, have interest rates that are, on average, three points higher than the prime rate, about 6.2 percent now, and they carry higher fees and prepayment penalties that make it expensive to refinance. 
 Some housing experts worry that the minority foreclosure rate could worsen if the economy or the housing market, nationally or regionally, hits a rough patch as it has in industrial Midwestern states like Ohio.
 ''Anybody who is on the edge, those are factors that can tip them over into foreclosure,'' said William C. Apgar, a lecturer at Harvard who has studied foreclosure patterns in Atlanta, Chicago and Los Angeles. ''That could happen even though foreclosure rates are down.''
 The example of Ms. Roberts is noteworthy because her loan was not considered subprime. It came from KeyBank, a longstanding Cleveland institution, and carried a relatively low fixed interest rate of 7.4 percent on a principal of $65,000. She never had a credit card, much less a credit record, and put down only $2,000.
 Over the years, Ms. Roberts's monthly expenses rose because of repairs to a dilapidated porch and the birth of two grandchildren, but the $880 a month she takes home after taxes from her job as a home health aide did not. 
 Ms. Roberts, 35, also receives $1,100 in Social Security benefits because two of her younger children have learning disabilities. ''I know when you buy a house, eventually you have to put work into it,'' she said and sighed, ''but I didn't know it would lead me here, because if I did I would have never bought it. So, I am at a point right now that I don't want to ever buy a house, ever again.''
 The Mortgage Bankers Association of America plays down the severity of foreclosures, noting that most new minority homeowners are doing well and that the Midwest is facing unique economic challenges. The trade group estimates that fewer than 1 percent of all loans were in foreclosure in the three months that ended last September, down from 1.5 percent in 2002. For subprime loans, the rate was 3.3 percent, down from 8 percent in 2002.

Trouble in Cuyahoga County
 But broad national statistics can obscure hard local realities. In Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland, Ms. Roberts's hometown, court filings by lenders seeking to foreclose on delinquent borrowers totaled more than 11,000 in 2005, more than triple the number in 1995.
 There were 17 auctions of foreclosed properties for every 100 regular single-family homes sold in the county in 2005, up from 10 in 2004 and 5 in 1995, according to data tabulated by Cleveland State University. (Not all homes that enter foreclosure are sold at auction; sometimes borrowers and lenders settle out of court or the property is sold on the open market.)
 There is no way to know how many foreclosures of minority-owned homes have occurred in the Cleveland area, because county filings do not identify people by race. Experts say the closest proxy is the number of auctions of seized homes conducted by a sheriff as a ratio of conventional sales in areas with large minority populations. 
 In the eastern part of the county, which is 52 percent black and 7 percent Hispanic, the ratio of auctions to regular sales was 23 per 100 last year, up from 9 in 1995. In the west, which is 82 percent white, the ratio was 11 per 100, up from 2.5. 
 A similar pattern can be seen in Chicago, where foreclosure filings tripled, to 7,576, from 1993 to 2005. Neighborhoods where the population is more than 80 percent non-white account for 65 percent of all cases, up from 61 percent in 1993, according to data compiled by the National Training and Information Center, a housing advocacy and research group based in Chicago. The same trends have been documented in Atlanta and Philadelphia, according to researchers from Harvard and the Reinvestment Fund, a Philadelphia-based investment organization hired by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking to study mortgage foreclosures in the state.
 Mr. Apgar and other experts note that foreclosure is the worst, but not the only, negative consequence faced by overextended minority families.
 In areas where home prices have appreciated, families that have defaulted on their loan might still be able to sell their homes before they are seized. Though they would lose their homes and damage their credit records, their financial troubles would not register in foreclosure statistics. People who live in the great middle of the country where home prices have not risen rapidly may not have that option because demand there is soft.
 At stake are historic gains in minority home ownership rates, which until the mid-1990's had been stagnant for two decades.
 Last year, black home ownership fell slightly, to 48.8 percent, from 49.7 percent in 2004, only the second year the rate has declined in the last 10 years. Still, the fact that nearly half of all black households and half of all Hispanic families owned their homes is widely seen as a step forward. 
 In 1995, fewer than 43 percent of black families and just under 44 percent of Hispanic families owned their own homes. Among all minorities, a group that includes Asians and mixed-race households, the rate was 51 percent in 2005, up from 44 percent a decade ago. By comparison, more than three-quarters of white households owned their own homes in 2005, up from 71 percent.

The Role of Subprime Loans
 In addition to lowering crime and revitalizing blighted neighborhoods, home ownership also helps families build wealth that can pay for education and be passed on to the next generation, said Dowell Myers, a professor at the University of Southern California who has studied Hispanic home buying patterns.
 Experts attribute the recent increase in minority ownership to income and employment gains, but also to the growth of subprime lending, which provides credit in areas where few lenders and banks operated before. The expansion of credit, particularly to the poorest minorities, has been controversial.
 Advocates for the poor say that aggressive lenders and mortgage brokers have given loans to borrowers who are lured by dreams of home ownership but have few savings and little job security. Many families might be better off, and receive less expensive loans, if they saved for a down payment and paid down other debts before buying a home, said Kathleen E. Keest, a senior policy counsel at the Center for Responsible Lending, a housing advocacy and research group based in Durham, N.C.
 And for all the talk of expanding opportunities to the less well-off, experts note that the gap between minority and white home ownership remains unchanged from a decade ago at about 25 percentage points.
 Loan data that mortgage lenders must disclose show that minorities are far more likely to receive subprime loans than whites. About 30 percent of home purchase loans made to blacks from 1999 to 2004 and 20 percent of home loans made to Hispanics were subprime, compared with 10.4 percent of loans to Asian-Americans, only slightly higher than for white borrowers.
 In 2004, the latest year with data available, nearly 27 percent of loans taken out by minorities were subprime, up from 15 percent in 1999.
 The disparities persist even when income is taken into account. Among minority borrowers who made $51,000 to $75,000 a year, 23 percent received subprime loans. By comparison, only 10 percent of whites in the same income bracket did. Minorities who made $151,000 to $175,000 were twice as likely to get a subprime loan as whites were.
 The Mortgage Bankers Association said lenders used a number of factors like credit scores and the size of down payments, in addition to income, to determine what kind of loan and interest rates are offered to borrowers. For instance, ''whites have traditionally had more wealth than minorities, and that's a factor in who gets what kind of loan, as well,'' said Douglas G. Duncan, the chief economist at the trade group.
 Almost 70 percent of subprime loans issued since 2001 will shift from low, fixed introductory rates to higher adjustable rates in the next two years, according to an analysis by Fannie Mae.
 Still, Mr. Duncan added, subprime lending has benefited minorities and lower-income borrowers. For every 100 subprime loans made nationally, only 5 end in foreclosure. Some increase in total foreclosures is to be expected simply because the number of mortgages has increased substantially over the last decade, he said.
 Mr. Duncan and others in the industry say that higher foreclosure levels in the Midwest should not be seen as worrying signals for the nation because the region's economic problems are unique.
 Ohio lost 215,000 jobs from 2001 to 2005, with 63,800 of them coming from the Cleveland metropolitan area. The state unemployment rate was 5.6 percent in December, up from 4 percent in 2000. The jobless rate in Cleveland was 5.5 percent in December, up from 3.8 percent.
 James Rokakis, the Cuyahoga County treasurer and an advocate of tighter lending standards, said a 5 percent national foreclosure rate for subprime loans was acceptable to lenders because their profits were greater on those loans than on prime mortgages. But he noted that his county's 17 percent rate is creating blight in many neighborhoods.
 In Slavic Village, once a thriving Eastern European enclave where many of Cleveland's steelworkers lived and now an increasingly black and Hispanic neighborhood, about 500 homes, or 5 percent of its properties, are vacant, Mr. Rokakis said. ''Who pays for the damage done to these communities?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Catrina Roberts, left, with her daughter Sanautica, 12, and granddaughter Neakia, 4. Ms. Roberts's home in Cleveland is in foreclosure and she has declared bankruptcy.
The 17 percent foreclosure rate in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, is creating blight in many neighborhoods, including Slavic Village, where about 500 homes are vacant. (Photographs by Eustacio Humphrey for The New York Times)(pg. C8)Chart: ''Foreclosing in Cleveland''Some Cleveland neighborhoods with large poor and minority populations have experienced a sharp rise in foreclosures.Graphs/Maps of downtown Cleveland and Cuyahoga County, Ohio, track the following:PERCENT MINORITY POPULATION (circa 2000)NUMBER OF HOMES AUCTIONED BY THE SHERIFF FOR EVERY 100 HOMES SOLD NORMALLY (1995 and 2005)(Sources by Center for Housing Research and Policy, Cleveland State University
Center on Urban Poverty and Social Change, Case Western Reserve University)(pg. C8)Chart: ''Below Prime''Minority borrowers are about twice as likely as white borrowers to be offered a subprime loan, regardless of income.Graph tracks subprime loans, as a percentage of all home loans, from 1999 to 2004.(Income is tracked in thousands of dollars
 race of borrower is separated into white/minority.)(Source by New York Times analysis of Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (86%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); PRIME RATES (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); CENSUS (69%) Housing; Blacks; Minorities (US); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Foreclosures; Bankruptcies; Mortgages; Housing

COMPANY: KEYCORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; Ron Nixon; Catrina V Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (95%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (97%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Cleveland (Ohio); Chicago (Ill); Philadelphia (Pa); Atlanta (Ga); Cuyahoga County (Ohio); Ohio

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



481 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. To W.: You're Nuts!

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It's enough to make you nostalgic for those gnarly union stevedores in ''On the Waterfront,'' the ones who hung up rats on hooks and took away Marlon Brando's chance to be a contend-ah.
 Maybe it's corporate racial profiling, but I don't want foreign companies, particularly ones with links to 9/11, running American ports. 
 What kind of empire are we if we have to outsource our coastline to a group of sheiks who don't recognize Israel, in a country where money was laundered for the 9/11 attacks? And that let A. Q. Kahn, the Pakistani nuclear scientist, smuggle nuclear components through its port to Libya, North Korea and Iran?
 It's mind-boggling that President Bush ever agreed to let an alliance of seven emirs be in charge of six of our ports. Although, as usual, Incurious George didn't even know about it until after the fact. (Neither did Rummy, even though he heads one of the agencies that green-lighted the deal.)
 Same old pattern: a stupid and counterproductive national security decision is made in secret, blowing off checks and balances, and the president's out of the loop.
 Was W. too busy not calling Dick Cheney to find out why he shot a guy to not be involved in a critical decision about U.S. security? What is he waiting for -- a presidential daily brief warning, ''Bin Laden Determined to Attack U.S. Ports?''
 Our ports are already nearly naked in terms of security. Only about 5 percent of the containers coming into the country are checked. And when the White House assures us that the Homeland Security Department will oversee security at the ports, is that supposed to make us sleep better? Not after the chuckleheaded Chertoff-and-Brownie show on Capitol Hill.
 ''Our borders are wide open,'' said Jan Gadiel of 9/11 Families for a Secure America. ''We don't know who's in our country right now, not a clue. And now they're giving away our ports.'' The ''trust us'' routine of W. and Dick Cheney is threadbare.
 The more W. warned that he would veto legislation stopping this deal, the more lawmakers held press conferences to oppose it -- even conservatives who had loyally supported W. on Iraq, the Patriot Act, torture and warrantless snooping.
 Mr. Bush is hoist on his own petard. For four years, the White House has accused anyone in Congress or the press who defended civil liberties or questioned anything about the Iraq war of being soft on terrorism. Now, as Congress and the press turn that accusation back on the White House, Mr. Bush acts mystified by the orgy of xenophobia. 
 Lawmakers, many up for re-election, have learned well from Karl Rove. Playing the terror card works.
 A bristly Bush said yesterday that scotching the deal would send ''a terrible signal'' to a worthy ally. He equated the ''Great British'' with the U.A.E. Well, maybe Britain in the 12th century. 
 Besides, the American people can be forgiven if they're confused about what it means in the Arab world to be a U.S. ally. Is it a nation that helps us sometimes but also addicts us to oil and then jacks up the price, refuses to recognize Israel, denies women basic rights, tolerates radical anti-American clerics, looks the other way when its citizens burn down embassies and consulates over cartoons, and often turns a blind eye when it comes to hunting down terrorists in its midst?
 In our past wars, America had specific countries to demonize. But now in the ''global war on terror'' -- GWOT, as they call it -- the enemy is a faceless commodity that the administration uses whenever it wants to win a political battle. When something like this happens, it's no wonder the public does its own face transplant.
 One of the real problems here is that this administration has run up such huge trade and tax-cut-and-spend budget deficits that we're in hock to the Arabs and the Chinese to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars. If they just converted their bonds into cash, they would own our ports and not have to merely rent them. 
 Just because the wealthy foreigners who own our debt can blackmail us with their economic leverage, does that mean we should expose our security assets to them as well?
 As part of the lunatic White House defense, Dan Bartlett argued that ''people are trying to drive wedges and make this to be a political issue.'' But as the New Republic editor Peter Beinart pointed out in a recent column, W. has made the war on terror ''one vast wedge issue'' to divide the country.
 Now, however, the president has pulled us together. We all pretty much agree: mitts off our ports. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Feb. 22 column by Maureen Dowd -- ''G.O.P. To W.: You're Nuts!'' -- misspelled the name of the Pakistani nuclear scientist who smuggled sensitive nuclear components to Libya, North Korea and Iran. His name is A. Q. Khan, not A. Q. Kahn.
The Feb. 22 column by Maureen Dowd -- ''G.O.P. To W.: You're Nuts!'' -- misspelled the name of the Pakistani nuclear scientist who smuggled sensitive nuclear components to Libya, North Korea and Iran. His name is A. Q. Khan, not A. Q. Kahn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); US PATRIOT ACT (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); VETO (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); RACIAL PROFILING (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Ships and Shipping ; Security and Warning Systems; Ports; Terrorism; Ships and Shipping 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Dubai Ports World; Homeland Security Department

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%) Maureen Dowd; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (85%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Dubai; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



482 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; COURT IN TRANSITION: A FEDERAL BAN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Justices to Review Federal Ban On Disputed Abortion Method

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court, at full strength with Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. on the bench for the first time, opened the next chapter in its long-running confrontation with abortion on Tuesday by agreeing to decide whether the first federal ban on a method of abortion is constitutional.
 The court accepted, for argument next fall, the Bush administration's appeal of a decision invalidating the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. The law makes it a crime for a doctor to perform an abortion during which a part of the fetus, either the ''entire fetal head'' or ''any part of the fetal trunk past the navel,'' is outside the woman's uterus at the time the fetus is killed. 
While supporters of the law maintain that this technique is used only late in pregnancy, and that the law therefore does not present an obstacle to most abortions, abortion-rights advocates say the statute's description applies to procedures used to terminate pregnancies as early as 12 or 13 weeks.
 The law makes an exception for instances in which the banned technique is necessary to save a pregnant woman's life, but not for preservation of her health. Six years ago, in a 5-to-4 decision with Justice Sandra Day O'Connor in the majority, the Supreme Court found that the health exception was necessary when it overturned a similar law from Nebraska. In essence, the court will be revisiting that decision in the case it took Tuesday, with Justice Alito now filling the O'Connor seat. 
 In omitting a health exception, the federal law presents a direct threat to that precedent. In the federal statute, Congress included a ''finding'' that ''partial-birth abortion is never medically indicated to preserve the health of the mother'' and that ''there is no credible medical evidence that partial-birth abortions are safe or are safer than other abortion procedures.''
 The four doctors who went to Federal District Court in Lincoln, Neb., to challenge the federal law, including Dr. Leroy Carhart, who had brought the earlier challenge to the Nebraska state law, disputed the Congressional findings. They said the method was safer under some conditions, and could preserve some women's fertility by avoiding such complications as punctures from bone fragments inside the uterus.
 The trial judge, Richard G. Kopf, who had earlier found the Nebraska law unconstitutional, said the plaintiffs had demonstrated that the Congressional findings were ''unreasonable.'' He declared the federal law unconstitutional in a 269-page opinion, issued in September 2004. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in St. Louis, upheld that decision last July, leading to the administration's Supreme Court appeal, Gonzales v. Carhart, No. 05-380. 
 Last month, two other federal appeals courts, the Second Circuit in New York and the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, declared the statute unconstitutional in separate lawsuits. All three courts issued injunctions barring enforcement of the law.
 Ever since Roe v. Wade and its companion case, Doe v. Bolton, in 1973, the court has required exceptions for health as well as life in any regulation of abortion. But the vote in the Nebraska case, Stenberg v. Carhart, was 5 to 4, with Justice Sandra Day O'Connor in the majority. It is highly likely, therefore, that her successor, Justice Alito, will be in the position to cast the deciding vote. The dissenters in the Nebraska case were Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Anthony M. Kennedy, along with Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who has since been replaced by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.
 After the court's announcement, groups on both sides of the abortion debate tried to attach some significance to the decision to accept the case. In fact, it would have been highly unusual for the court to turn down the appeal. A lower court's invalidation of a federal statute has an almost automatic claim on the justices' attention, even those justices who may view the decision as correct or those who may not necessarily agree in this instance with the administration's description of the case as ''extraordinarily important.'' 
 The court had the administration's appeal under review since early January. It may have deferred action as a courtesy to Justice Alito, who was sworn in on Jan. 31 and participated in his first closed-door conference with the other justices last Friday. 
 Or, equally likely, the justices set aside the case while they finished work on a New Hampshire abortion case that also raised a question about a medical exception to an abortion regulation, in that instance a requirement that a teenage girl notify a parent and then wait 48 hours before obtaining an abortion.
 In what was Justice O'Connor's final opinion before retirement, that case, Ayotte v. Planned Parenthood of Northern New England, was decided on Jan. 18. The unanimous opinion restated the court's longstanding insistence on an exception for medical emergencies but, in its list of precedents, pointedly omitted reference to the Nebraska case from six years ago.
 In the administration's brief in the new case, the solicitor general, Paul D. Clement, said the appeals court should have given ''substantial deference'' to the Congressional findings on the lack of need for a health exception. Such deference was not at issue in the court's earlier case, he said, because that case concerned a state rather than federal law.
 Representing the plaintiffs, who include Drs. William G. Fitzhugh, William H. Knorr and Jill L. Vibhakar, in addition to Dr. Carhart, the Center for Reproductive Rights told the justices in its brief that the Congressional findings were not entitled to the deference that courts usually apply when evaluating legislation.
 ''The facts at issue here involve the current state of medicine, physicians' testimony about patients they have cared for, medical conditions they have treated, and the impact of abortion techniques on the health of these patients,'' the brief said, adding that Congress does not have ''a particular expertise in the area of medicine, as it does in the area of nationwide economic regulatory schemes.''
 The organization, based in Manhattan, was known as the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy when it represented Dr. Carhart in the earlier case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (93%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); JUDGES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (71%) Abortion; Law and Legislation; Constitutions; Abortion

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (90%) Sandra Day O'Connor; Samuel A Jr (Assoc Justice) Alito; Leroy (Dr) Carhart; William G (Dr) Fitzhugh; William H (Dr) Knorr; Jill L (Dr) Vighaker; Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



483 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Hamas Is Formally Asked to Form a New Government

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

DATELINE: GAZA, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, formally asked Hamas on Tuesday to establish a new government, while the top Hamas leader said Iran was likely to play an increasingly important role in Palestinian affairs.
 At his seaside compound in Gaza City, Mr. Abbas appointed Ismail Haniya, widely viewed as one of Hamas's more pragmatic leaders, to form the Palestinian cabinet.
Hamas nominated Mr. Haniya, 42, as its candidate for prime minister on Sunday, making his appointment by Mr. Abbas a formality. Even so, it set the clock ticking for Mr. Haniya, who now has up to five weeks to put together a cabinet. Hamas leaders say they would like to complete the process in two weeks. 
 Mr. Abbas says the new government must accept existing agreements with Israel, a position Hamas has rejected. Still, Mr. Haniya said after meeting Mr. Abbas that ''political differences between Hamas and the Palestinian Authority president will be resolved by dialogue.''
 After winning Palestinian elections last month, Hamas now faces a host of urgent challenges, with Israel imposing sanctions and Western nations refusing to deal with the radical group.
 On Tuesday, the top overall Hamas leader, Khaled Meshal, held a second day of meetings in Iran, a country that has long been supportive of Hamas.
 ''With respect to the challenges that we have ahead of us, Iran's role in the future of Palestine should continue and increase,'' said Mr. Meshal, who has been in exile in Syria and will not be part of the new government.
 ''Talking to Israel is a waste of time as long as there is no talk about withdrawing from Palestine,'' Mr. Meshal added, according to Reuters.
 A day earlier, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, called on Muslims around the world to support the Palestinians, though there was no announcement of a specific financial pledge from Iran.
 Also, foreign ministers of nations in the Arab League meeting in Algeria failed to reach agreement on a financial aid package for the Palestinians, The Associated Press reported from Algiers.
 But Mr. Meshal said he was not worried about the prospects of losing money from the United States and Europe.
 ''If the West does not provide economic aid to Palestine, it can get the support from the Arab and Islamic countries,'' he said.
 In Israel, Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said that while the likelihood of any agreements with a Hamas-led government was remote, he would not entirely rule it out.
 ''The chances of reaching a quick arrangement with a Palestinian government led by Hamas are lower,'' Mr. Olmert said in an interview with Israeli television. Excerpts were released before the Tuesday night broadcast.
 ''But hope is not lost, and I am responsible for both these things, both the battle against Hamas, as well as maintaining hope on the chance of reaching some sort of arrangement,'' he added.
 Mr. Olmert's centrist Kadima Party is heavily favored over the left-leaning Labor Party and the conservative Likud in Israel's national elections scheduled for next month.
 On Tuesday, the Likud leader, Benjamin Netanyahu, described Hamas as part of the ''worldwide jihadist movement'' that seeks to ''eliminate the state of Israel, but not merely the state of Israel -- it seeks to fight this mad historical battle with the West.''
 He called for a policy of ''three walls'' in dealing with Hamas. They include Israel's West Bank separation barrier, political obstacles to prevent Hamas from receiving international legitimacy and financial barriers to prevent Hamas from obtaining money from foreign countries.
 In clashes on Tuesday, Israeli troops wounded 18 Palestinians in renewed fighting in the West Bank city of Nablus, Palestinians said.
 Israeli forces have been searching for militants in Nablus for the last three days, with most of their operations focused on the Balata refugee camp.
 Also, a nighttime explosion occurred near the Karni crossing, which is used for moving goods between Gaza and Israel. But there were no reports of injuries, and the cause of the blast was not immediately known, the Israeli military said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Palestinian man peered out during the Nablus fighting, which left 18 Palestinians wounded. (Photo by Ammar Awad/Reuters)
 An Israeli soldier fired a tear gas shell yesterday during clashes with Palestinians in the Balata refugee camp in Nablus on the West Bank. (Photo by Abed Omar Qusini/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (96%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); RELIGION (62%) Palestinians; Appointments and Executive Changes; Politics and Government ; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (59%) Hamas; Arab League

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (92%); EHUD OLMERT (79%); ALI KHAMENEI (78%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%) Greg Myre; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; Ismail Haniya; Khaled Meshal; Ali (Ayatollah) Khamenei; Benjamin Netanyahu; Ehud (Deputy Prime Min) Olmert

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); ALGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%) Israel; Iran; Israel; Nablus (West Bank)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



484 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Fed Suggests Its Future Decisions May Be Less Predictable

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers indicated last month that their decisions on interest rates could become less predictable and that they might start to rely more heavily on short-term economic prospects rather than on more sweeping monetary strategy.
 Minutes of the meeting on Jan. 31 -- Alan Greenspan's last -- were released Tuesday. They offered insight into policy makers' thinking as they contemplated what might be the appropriate end to the Fed's nearly two-year campaign of tightening credit and as they prepared for a new chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.
 ''Although the stance of policy seemed close to where it needed to be given the current outlook, some future policy firming might be needed'' to keep inflation and the economy on an even keel, according to the minutes. 
 One of the first challenges facing Mr. Bernanke, who started his new job on Feb. 1, will be to work with his Fed colleagues to decide when to stop increasing rates. 
 Mr. Bernanke's first meeting on rate policy is March 27-28. In Congressional testimony last week, he hinted that another rate increase could come at that time to help keep inflation in check.
 At the January meeting, the Federal Reserve increased an important interest rate, called the federal funds rate, by one-quarter percentage point to 4.50 percent, the highest in nearly five years. It was the 14th increase of that size since the Fed began to tighten credit in June 2004.
 The funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, is the Fed's main tool for influencing economic activity.
 In the future, though, the path of interest rates may not be nearly as predictable, according to the minutes. ''All members agreed that the future path for the funds rate would depend increasingly on economic developments and could no longer be prejudged with the previous degree of confidence,'' the minutes stated.
 The rate increase in January was part of a long-term process in which the Fed's strategy was focused on lifting rates from historically low levels to more normal ones.
 Before the Fed embarked on its rate-raising campaign, the funds rate had been sliced to 1 percent, a 46-year low, in an effort to help the economy get back on its feet after the 2001 recession, terror attacks and a wave of accounting scandals that rocked Wall Street.
 ''They are definitely off autopilot,'' said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at the Bank of America Investment Strategies Group. ''Although another increase at the end of March seems likely, the statement in the minutes reinforces the view that future policy steps will depend more on the behavior of economic statistics.'' 
 At the January meeting, policy makers indicated that the economic slowdown in the final quarter of 2005, when gross domestic product expanded at a feeble 1.1 percent pace, was probably in part a result of ''transitory factors'' and they predicted that growth would bounce back in the current quarter, the minutes said. Economic barometers on factory production, job creation and business demand all pointed to improving economic activity, according to the minutes. That was consistent with the economic assessment that Mr. Bernanke offered Congress last week. 
 The economy will ''expand at a fairly robust pace of the first half of this year, boosted in part by spending on recovery activities associated with the hurricanes,'' the minutes stated. After that, growth was expected to moderate, mostly reflecting the impact of a slowing housing market.
 The housing boom, over the last five years in particular, has been an important ingredient in consumer spending and overall economic activity. Rapidly rising house prices have made homeowners feel wealthy and thus inclined to spend. While a sharp slowdown in housing would spell trouble for the economy, the Fed minutes suggested that the most likely outcome was a gradual moderation. That was also consistent with the message that Mr. Bernanke delivered to lawmakers last week.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben Bernanke made his first report to Congress as Fed chief last week. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); RECESSION (74%); STATISTICS (73%); TESTIMONY (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%); SCANDALS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); ACCOUNTING (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit; United States Economy

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (74%) Alan Greenspan; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



485 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; AT LUNCH WITH: Mark Kurlansky; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: A New York Story On the Half Shell

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
BEFORE it had hot dogs or bagels, New York had oysters. And, as Mark Kurlansky explains in ''The Big Oyster: History on the Half Shell'' (Ballantine Books, $23.95), these were not just any oysters. 
 For more than a century, the oysters pulled from New York waters, especially from the East River and around Staten Island, were prized by connoisseurs as the finest in the world. They were shipped to top restaurants in Paris and London, and once the Erie Canal was completed in 1825 and railroad links were established soon after, they were sent to western destinations in the expanding territory of the United States.
Demand would soon outstrip supply, and the beds were exhausted. Pollution eventually took its toll, and what oysters were left in New York waters were no longer safe to eat. The Big Oyster became the Big Apple. 
 In a previous book, ''Cod: A Biography of the Fish That Changed the World'' (Walker & Company, 1997), Mr. Kurlansky examined the history of cod as a paradigm for the depletion of the oceans. Now he is using New York's oysters to illustrate not just overfishing but the consequences of urbanization and the pollution that goes with it. 
 ''Examining the oyster is an accessible way to take on the issue of urban development,'' Mr. Kurlansky, 57, said. ''Even though I'm from New England, I never wanted to eat cod that much. Oysters are much better.''
 As he was talking about oysters last week, he was making short work of an assorted dozen on the half shell -- none from New York -- at Aquagrill in SoHo, slurping the bivalves from their shells without the benefit of silverware or sauces. When it comes to oysters on a personal level, Mr. Kurlansky is a purist. His book, which will be available next week, does not even mention cocktail sauce. ''There are lots of things in this book that I wouldn't do to an oyster, like roasting them,'' he said, adding that he also likes clams. ''But clams don't have the same taste of the sea as oysters, and none of the romance and wildness.''
 A native of Hartford who now lives in Manhattan, he went to Butler University in Indianapolis, where he was a theater major.
 ''I wanted college to be a real American adventure for me,'' he said. He tried writing plays but, dissatisfied with his progress, went into journalism. He said he always had an interest in food. ''When you're in theater you inevitably wind up working in restaurants,'' he said. ''I made pastry.'' 
 Even before writing a book on cod, he had written food articles for various publications. The oyster book grew out of an article he wrote for The New York Times's City section in 2001. His next book, a nonfood volume called ''Nonviolence: 25 Lessons From the History of a Dangerous Idea,'' is scheduled to be published in October by Modern Library. Then he will start work on a book of the food writings commissioned before World War II for the Works Progress Administration.
 Through the oyster, Mr. Kurlansky's current book traces the social, economic and environmental history of New York City and its waterways, starting even before the Europeans came on the scene, with the oyster-loving Lenape Indians. From the shells in the middens, or refuse heaps, archaeologists have concluded that the Lenape ate tons of oysters. With the Dutch, then the English and eventually every other group that arrived, the abundant oysters in the harbor and the rivers contributed to the city's economy. 
 The Dutch did just fine shipping oysters to Europe, though they were disappointed that the city's oysters could not revive their pearl industry -- they are the ones who named Pearl Street -- but Eastern American oysters, Crassostrea virginica, do not make gem-quality pearls. All the native oysters on the East Coast, from Louisiana to Newfoundland, are C. virginica, a different species from many West Coast varieties and from European oysters.
 Mr. Kurlansky's book explains oyster taxonomy, biology and history, and not just as these subjects relate to New York.
 He marvels at the human taste for oysters. ''They take work, and they are not terribly nutritious,'' he said. ''And a hundred or more years ago oysters were a food that was consumed in more or less the same form by every social class. Throughout most of New York's history, oysters were incredibly cheap. You could get all you could eat for 6 cents, an entire plate for less than what a hot dog cost, at a time when a single out-of-season strawberry cost 50 cents.'' 
 Mr. Kurlansky was particularly struck by the extent to which New York was identified by oysters at that time.
 ''People came here to eat them, like having grilled sardines in Portugal,'' he said. ''Europeans loved the taste of them. As with wine, geography affects the flavor. Oysters are usually named for a locale.'' 
 Mr. Kurlansky's book also documents the ways people liked to eat oysters. Some recipes, mostly from 19th-century cookbooks, are included ''for their historic interest,'' he said. A few of them are worth trying.
 Cooking oysters on grills or in stews was the norm until the middle of the 19th century, when fancy restaurants, following French tastes, started serving them raw. It was not just Diamond Jim Brady and Lillian Russell who would tuck into platters bearing dozens of oysters to start a dinner.
 The hoi polloi would frequent bawdy oyster cellars, some owned by African-Americans, where oysters were served raw and cooked, with plenty of strong drink. And once Charles Dickens discovered them, the oyster cellars became everyone's destination. 
 Around that time the story takes an ugly, polluted turn. Starting in the mid- to late-1800's, many of New York's oyster beds, in the Harlem River, for example, and in Jamaica Bay, were abandoned because of the pollution from increased industrialization and improper waste disposal. 
 If the natural oyster beds were being wiped out, not only in New York's harbor and rivers, but also in New Jersey and Long Island waters, oysters could be cultivated. Spat, or small oysters, mainly from Chesapeake Bay, were introduced. ''With cultivation, the New York oyster industry thought it had beaten nature,'' Mr. Kurlansky said. ''But the city still didn't take care of its water. London, where oysters once came from the Thames, has a similar story.'' 
 He said that by the 1970's water conditions had started to improve, but it was still too toxic to make the cultivation of oysters, which constantly filter water through their bodies, safe in New York Harbor. As he was finishing the last of the oysters on his plate at lunch, Mr. Kurlansky paused. ''I only wish I could taste a real New York oyster,'' he said. ''But that's impossible.''

Oyster Fritters
Adapted from ''The Big Oyster'' by Mark Kurlansky (Ballantine Books)
Time: 20 minutes

24 shucked oysters, with 1/4 cup of their liquor
1 large egg, separated
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Pinch cayenne
1 quart vegetable oil for deep-frying
Tartar sauce, for serving.

1. Check oysters and remove any bits of shell. Put oysters in a bowl. Lightly beat egg yolk. Whisk in oyster liquor and flour. Season with salt and pepper.
2. Heat oil to 375 degrees in a deep-fryer, a saucepan or a wok. When oil is hot, beat egg white until stiff and fold into batter. Place oysters in batter and stir to coat them.
3. Drop well-coated oysters one at a time into oil and fry, turning them once with tongs, until golden brown. Transfer to paper towel to drain briefly. Serve with tartar sauce.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings.

Oyster Pigs in Blankets
Adapted from ''The Big Oyster'' by Mark Kurlansky (Ballantine Books)
Time: 20 minutes

16 thin slices bacon (1 pound)
16 plump shucked oysters
Lemon wedges.

1. Place a strip of bacon on a work surface. Place an oyster in the middle, wrap bacon around oyster, and secure with a toothpick. Repeat with remaining oysters and bacon.
2. Place a large skillet over medium heat. Fry bacon-wrapped oysters until bacon is golden brown, turning them once. Drain briefly, then serve with lemon.

Yield: 4 servings.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A WORKING LUNCH -- Mark Kurlansky, who has previously written books about salt and cod, consuming his latest subject, oysters. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. F5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); URBANIZATION (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); THEATER & DRAMA (63%); US TERRITORIES (55%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Oysters; Books and Literature

COMPANY: WALKER & CO (WINTER PARK, FLORIDA) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (69%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (69%)

PERSON: Florence Fabricant; Mark Kurlansky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (57%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



486 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: A Book For People Who Love Numbers

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Richard Sutch and Susan Carter don't expect anybody to take their new book to the beach. 
 For starters, it weighs 29 pounds. It has five volumes. And it's densely packed with more than a million numbers that measure America in mind-boggling detail, from the average annual precipitation in Sweet Springs, Mo., to the wholesale price of rice in Charleston S.C., in 1707.
''You'd have to be a certain kind of personality type,'' Professor Sutch said. 
 ''Let's suppose you're a novelist, writing about that period, and you might want to familiarize yourself with it for verisimilitude,'' he added. ''It might be important to a historian -- why was there a lot of out-migration from this particular area of the county at that time?''
 ''You want to know the average so you can spot deviations,'' Professor Carter interjected. ''Were Dust Bowl conditions really as bad as novelists were saying? The answer is, yes.'' 
 Professors Sutch and Carter, who are married and both teach at the University of California at Riverside, are editors in chief of Historical Statistics of the United States, an ambitious expansion of previous compilations that were published by the United States Census Bureau in 1949, 1960 and 1975. This ''Millennial Edition'' is a privatized version, authorized by the Census Bureau but published by Cambridge University Press. 
 Since the last edition, the editors write, they have tried to rationalize the ''phenomenal growth of the American quantitative record,'' which is why Historical Statistics has proliferated to more than 5,000 pages, from 1,235 in the last version, and includes new chapters on slavery, poverty, American Indians, the Confederacy and the nation's territories overseas.
 ''As time goes on, the statisticians and the bureaucrats who produce a lot of these numbers for the government keep producing new data,'' Professor Sutch said. ''The other thing is that scholars have really jumped into the field. They are going back and trying to reconsider all sorts of issues with new perspectives, and one of those perspectives is a quantitative one.'' 
 The new edition, which sells for $825 and is also available in an online version, is a gold mine for scholars, students and assorted nerds and numbers crunchers, although, as with a gold mine, exposing the veins and nuggets can be challenging. Some tables are not comparable, many do not include percentages, and some contemporary tables are current only to 1990. 
 ''The whole project was designed to present data in raw form rather than highly manipulated,'' Professor Sutch said. ''That makes it more difficult. You have to do a little work to use this.''
 The couple have been working on the revised collection for 11 years, although they estimate that more than half that time was spent in fund-raising. (Cambridge says the book cost more than $1 million to produce.) What statistics surprised them?
 ''We're the wrong people to ask about what's surprising,'' Professor Carter said. ''We've been working on it so long.'' 
 Historical Statistics of the United States is a product of collaborative scholarship. Introductory essays by contributors provide context and some navigational tools, and hint at trends.
 Professors Charles Hirschman, Reynolds Farley and Richard Alba point out in their essay, for instance, that while only 1.9 percent of Americans 18 and older claim two or more racial identities, 4 percent of those younger than 18 do. 
 A discriminating browser can also learn, or be reminded, that:
 Fewer than 1 in 10 black children under 5 live with both parents; workers with the highest hourly wages now work the longest hours; there are more religious workers (also bartenders, gardeners and authors) than ever recorded, and more shoemakers than at any other time since the Civil War; only half of Americans have access to fluoridated water; a growing share of poor people live in the suburbs; philanthropy compared with the gross domestic product has been declining since 1960; more Protestants and Jews say they attended religious services within the last week than at any time in the last 50 years; the nation is producing record amounts of broccoli; it took four days on average to travel between New York and Boston in 1800; attendance at horse-racing tracks peaked in 1976, but rodeo attendance is at an all-time high; and the proportion of people who have no opinion in presidential approval polls is the lowest in a half century. 
 ''It's not just a data dump,'' Professor Carter said. ''Believe it or not, we've been really highly selective.'' 
 The editors write that research for the new edition ''exposed many lacunas in the statistical record.'' For example, Professor Sutch said, ''On immigration we have a lot of good data on how many people arrived, but very bad data on how many left.''
 The couple do their own taxes and balance their own checking account, but they were not trained as statisticians. Professor Sutch, 63, and Professor Carter, 58, are both economic historians. 
 ''Readers may be surprised that the critical skill that's more required than formal statistics is more like literary criticism,'' Professor Carter said. ''You look at a number and don't say that's a fact. You want to say where did it come from, who generated it, why, is it consistent with what we would get from looking at other sources, does it make sense? What sort of insight can the quantitative record give to the qualitative one?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Weighing in at 29 pounds: Historical Statistics of the United States. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times)(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); HISTORY (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); CENSUS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%) 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: Virginia Heffernan; Jay Mccarroll

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



487 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Silvercup Studios Sets $1 Billion Complex 

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
With New York City suddenly awash in film and television productions, Silvercup Studios has unveiled plans for a version of Hollywood on the East River, a $1 billion complex with soundstages, commercial space and housing on the Queens waterfront south of the Queensboro Bridge.
 The six-acre project in Long Island City, which formally began wending its way through the city's land use review process yesterday, is called Silvercup West, an expansion of Silvercup's existing operation six blocks to the east, the home studio for television shows like ''The Sopranos'' and ''Hope & Faith'' and where many movies have been filmed. 
If it is approved, the expansion would include eight soundstages, production and studio support space, offices for media and entertainment companies, stores, 1,000 apartments in high-rise towers, a catering hall and a yet-to-be-named cultural institution. Silvercup would easily be the largest production house on the East Coast, although Steiner Studios in Brooklyn has the largest single soundstage. 
 ''With added studio space, more productions that may have been filmed elsewhere will now take advantage of all the benefits of filming in New York City,'' said Stuart Match Suna, who together with his brother Alan formed Silvercup in 1983. ''In addition, we are creating a 24/7 live, work and leisure community.''
 The project was designed by an architect with his own marquee value: Lord Richard Rogers, best known for the Pompidou Center in Paris and the Millennium Dome in London. 
 Lord Rogers is also designing the expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on the West Side of Manhattan. His plans in Queens also call for a plaza and a public waterfront esplanade.
 In the latest example of the boom in television and film production in New York, Mr. Suna said there are now five television pilots taping at Silvercup, including ''Ugly Betty,'' ''Six Degrees'' and ''Kidnapped,'' as well as two movies for Warner Brothers. There would have been a third, he said, but there was not enough space. 
 ''Mostly Martha,'' starring Catherine Zeta-Jones, and ''Music and Lyrics By,'' with Drew Barrymore and Hugh Grant, will be filmed at Silvercup this year.
 Gone are the days when shows about New York like ''Seinfeld'' and ''NYPD Blue'' were shot in California. Last year, there were more than 100 new and returning TV shows taped in New York, according to the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting.
 New York attracted more than 250 independent and studio films in 2005, up from 202 in 2004 and 180 in 2003. The total number of days film crews spent shooting on location soared by 35 percent last year from 2004, to 31,570. And that number does not include additional work done at studios and soundstages, said Julianne Cho, assistant commissioner at the mayor's film office. 
 The Suna brothers and Hal G. Rosenbluth, president of Kaufman Astoria Studios, the city's original film studio, also in Queens, attribute the jump in activity to a joint city and state program that went into effect at the end of 2004 that offers tax incentives for films that complete 75 percent of their studio work in New York City.
 ''This town is fairly busy, so I think there's still room for growth,'' Mr. Rosenbluth said. ''Tax credits have really worked.''
 Kaufman Studios, which is in talks to merge with Culver Studios, a Los Angeles-based production house, hopes to begin construction next year on its own long-awaited expansion.
 At Steiner Studios, the $118 million production house on 15 acres at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, ''The Producers'' started filming before the five giant soundstages officially opened at the complex in November 2004. Since then, Spike Lee has shot ''Inside Man'' with Denzel Washington and Julie Taymor recently finished ''Across the Universe.''
 Still, film and TV production is a tough business. Unlike office buildings that rent to tenants for 10 and 15 years at a time, soundstages are booked for weeks, or even days, at a time, and require a steady stream of new business to remain economically viable. The question remains: Can New York sustain this level of activity against competition from Canada and 20 other states and cities that offer tax breaks and other incentives?
 Alan Suna, the chief executive of Silvercup, acknowledged that his two-million-square-foot project was ambitious but added that ''it's also a very sensible project.'' The Silvercup expansion, he said, will incorporate the restoration of the landmark New York Architectural Terra Cotta Company building. 
 Trained as architects, the Sunas also have experience in developing housing, including the Renaissance project on 116th Street and Lenox Avenue in Harlem.
 Mr. Suna said that the project was designed to be built entirely within two years, or in phases as demand dictates. It faces its first public hearing on April 6 at Community Board 2 in Long Island City.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a complex of soundstages, commercial space and housing being planned in Queens. (Photo by Richard Rogers Partnership)Map of Queens shows the location of the Silvercup West development site: The Silvercup West development would include 1,000 apartments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); APPROVALS (69%); MAYORS (69%); MOVIE FILMING (58%) Motion Pictures; Architecture

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%) Silvercup Studios (NYC)

PERSON: DREW BARRYMORE (58%); HUGH GRANT (ACTOR) (58%) Richard (Lord Rogers) Rogers; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (54%) New York City; Long Island City (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



488 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Watchdog of Test Industry Faces Economic Extinction 

BYLINE: By Michael Winerip. 
E-mail: edmike@nytimes.com

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
FOR more than 20 years, FairTest, a small nonprofit group headquartered on the second floor of an old house here, has been the No. 1 critic of America's big testing companies and their standardized tests.
 In 1987, when FairTest began publishing its list of colleges that did not require applicants to submit SAT's, there were 51; today there are 730, including Holy Cross, Bowdoin, Bates, Mount Holyoke and Muhlenberg.
 ''The FairTest list provides an enormously valuable service for students looking at colleges who have proved themselves to everyone but the test agencies,'' said William Hiss, a Bates vice president.
 A generation of education journalists, like Thomas Toch, who reported for Education Week and U.S. News & World Report, were schooled on the complexities and limitations of standardized testing by FairTest. 
 ''They've helped me a lot,'' said Mr. Toch, who is now a director of Education Sector, a nonpartisan Washington policy research group.
 On a slow day, like last Friday, Robert Schaeffer of FairTest handled calls from The Honolulu Star-Bulletin, Lakeland Ledger, Associated Press and Hartford Courant and Bloomberg News.
 On busy days, like July 13, 2004, reporters call by the dozens. That was the day FairTest helped reveal that scoring mistakes by the Educational Testing Service on its teacher licensing test had caused 4,100 men and women in 18 states to fail when they had actually passed the exam.
 A few years ago, California officials were considering ending their support of the National Merit Scholarship program because it relied exclusively on a single score on the College Board's PSAT test to pick semifinalists. 
 ''We contacted the College Board about validity and fairness studies of the PSAT, but they didn't give us information that addressed our concerns,'' said Michael Brown, chairman of a state committee that makes recommendations on admissions policy for California's public colleges. ''So I asked FairTest, which got back with significant information on the limited reliability of a single PSAT score.'' 
 Last year, the University of California system ended its financial support of the National Merit program.
 But for all FairTest's impact, its days may be numbered. Never before has standardized testing so dominated American public education, thanks to the 2002 federal No Child Left Behind Law. Every child from grade 3 to high school must now take state tests. And the Bush administration is considering extending those tests to colleges.
 ''With N.C.L.B., a lot of people feel the debate is over,'' said Monty Neill, director of FairTest, officially the National Center for Fair and Open Testing. ''The attitude seems to be, 'Testing is so pervasive, what's the point?' '' Support from foundations has virtually dried up and individual donations have not made up the difference. ''Our board has seriously discussed whether to fold the operation,'' Mr. Neill said.
 Mr. Toch, Mr. Hiss and Mr. Brown all said this would be a major loss.
 ''There is no watchdog over the testing industry except FairTest,'' Mr. Brown said.
 Christopher Hooker-Haring, dean of admissions at Muhlenberg College, called FairTest ''an important voice that pushes back against the test mania in the U.S.''
 (This reporter and several others at The New York Times have used FairTest as a source through the years. And last fall, after more than a dozen major publications had reviewed this reporter's children's novel, FairTest also reviewed it, in a newsletter, along with several other children's books with testing themes.)Four companies -- Pearson, McGraw Hill, Harcourt and Houghton Mifflin -- along with the nonprofit Educational Testing Service, dominate the nation's $2.3 billion testing industry. They will shed no tears if FairTest disappears.
 Kurt Landgraf, the president of the testing service, which administers the SAT, wrote in an e-mail message: ''Perhaps if they had been more attuned to the public's support for using tests to help teachers teach and students learn, then they might have had wider support.''
 The companies criticize FairTest for dwelling on testing mistakes, which they say are minor compared with all the successfully administered exams. Privately, they call it NoTest, complaining that the group never met a test it liked.
 BUT Mr. Schaeffer said it was not so much the tests that FairTest opposed, as the overreliance on them to make decisions about which students get promoted and graduate, which schools are failing under federal law and who gets a teacher's license. The test companies' own research indicates that the margin of error is too great to use the tests this way, he said.
 FairTest has always been a David versus the testing industry. At its high point in the mid-1990's, FairTest had seven staff members and a budget of half a million dollars. Today it is down to one full-time worker, Mr. Neill; one half-time employee, Mr. Schaeffer; two phone lines; a one-room office; and a $168,000 budget.
 That has not quieted them. Mr. Schaeffer pointed out after examining Educational Testing Service's most recent public disclosure forms that at least 21 E.T.S. executives make salaries larger than FairTest's entire budget, starting with Mr. Landgraf, who earned $1.07 million in 2004, and three vice presidents, who each earned over half a million. 
 ''Those are outrageous salaries for a nonprofit,'' Mr. Schaeffer said.
 Mr. Landgraf countered, ''The salaries we pay are benchmarked against other organizations in the nonprofit sector and reflect our commitment to hiring the best and brightest.''
 FairTest has a knack for catching the testing companies at their worst, sometimes by using the companies' own research.
 In a recent newsletter, FairTest printed an analysis of SAT results, using, and crediting, College Board research showing the direct correlation between family income and SAT scores. For every extra $10,000 a family earns, children's combined math and verbal scores go up 12 to 31 points. So children whose parents earn $50,000 score better on average (a combined 996 SAT) than students from families who earn $40,000 (967) but worse than students from families who earn $60,000 (1014).
 For politicians and testing executives bragging about how No Child's testing emphasis is closing the achievement gap, these are not promising numbers.
 In 2004, the College Board demanded that its data breaking down SAT scores by income, race and sex be removed from the FairTest Web site, claiming that the posting was a copyright infringement. But after FairTest showed the letter to reporters, the College Board backed down, calling it a mistake by a junior staff member.
 Chiara Coletti, a spokeswoman for the College Board, which develops the PSAT, said the group worked hard to address California's concerns about that test, and stood by it. She was more generous about FairTest than her E.T.S. counterparts. Though FairTest's criticisms are painful, she said, ''every industry needs a watchdog.''
 Mr. Schaeffer, who is a good tester himself (his 800 math SAT helped get him into M.I.T.), plans to keep watch until the money runs out.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TESTING (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (77%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (77%); JOURNALISM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WRITERS (72%); EDUCATION LAW (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (70%) Colleges and Universities; Tests and Testing; Sat (College Admission Test)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (70%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (55%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Fairtest (Orgn); National Center for Fair and Open Testing; Education Testing Service

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: Michael Winerip

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Cambridge (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



489 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Seeks to Wield Influence On Security at Cruise Terminal

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Patrick McGeehan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, injecting himself into the growing debate over the proposed takeover of several American port operations by a Middle East company, signaled yesterday that the matter could lead the city to block the company from controlling the huge cruise terminal on the West Side. 
 The New York City Passenger Ship Terminal is arguably the most prominent of several port operations that would be affected by the takeover of a British shipping company by Dubai Ports World, based in the United Arab Emirates.
P & O Ports North America, a unit of the British concern, the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company, has operated the terminal since January 1997 under a 10-year agreement with the city's Economic Development Corporation, which manages the city's waterfront properties and is largely under Mr. Bloomberg's control.
 The lease is set to expire at the end of this year, and the city could elect not to renew it. 
 ''We've been working on a new lease,'' Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday, adding that city officials were ''trying to get our hands around who would really own this company.''
 The city does not have any control over other local port operations run by P & O, including a container terminal at Port Newark that is overseen by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
 The mayor said it was the federal government's responsibility to review the proposed takeover of all ports. But he said that he would use the city's powers to ensure the security of its property. ''To the extent it's the ports on our side of the harbor, we are trying to make sure that we can get the kind of satisfaction that you would want,'' he said.
 He later added, ''New York City's involvement is really on those docks that are on city shoreline, and so that's what I'm worried about, because that's what I can control.''
 Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly has gotten involved in the discussions over the renewal of P & O's lease with the ship terminal, the mayor said. Critics of the deal have said that the Dubai company could be infiltrated by terrorists and noted that the Sept. 11 attacks were partly financed by money that passed through banks in the United Arab Emirates.
 The city-owned terminal occupies the west side of 12th Avenue from 46th to 54th Streets at Piers 88, 90 and 92. It is the fourth-busiest cruise terminal in the United States. In 2004, according to a P & O Web site, 845,778 passengers were recorded moving through the terminal. 
 The cruise industry in New York City is estimated to generate $600 million in economic activity and account for 3,300 jobs. In April 2004, Mr. Bloomberg announced that the city would commit $200 million to redeveloping the terminal on the West Side and a new one on the Brooklyn waterfront, as part of an agreement with Norwegian Cruise Lines and Carnival Corporation.
 Robert Scavone, executive vice president of P & O Ports North America, said yesterday that the company had made security a priority. He said it had hired Michael Stapleton Associates, which he described as a company run by former New York City police detectives, to protect the terminal and develop a security plan with the Coast Guard. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); CITIES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (74%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORISM (60%) Ships and Shipping ; Cruises

COMPANY: PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (84%); DP WORLD LTD (83%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co; Dubai Ports World (Co)

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (84%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (84%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (83%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) New York City; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006



490 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Selling Well Everywhere But Home; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: German Industries Thrive, But Germans Won't Spend 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: ZIRNDORF, Germany 

 BODY:
The sturdy little pirates, policemen and farmers of the Playmobil toy series owe their existence to the oil crisis of the 1970's, which drove up the cost of plastic, forcing their German creator to switch from hula hoops to smaller, more economical toys.
 Now Playmobil is drawing on its resilience to weather another, potentially more lasting, crisis: Germans are not spending money on toys, let alone more expensive items like cars, refrigerators, or television sets. That has left the German economy in a stubborn four-year-long slump.
''It would be difficult if we had to learn that this is a market where we can't grow any longer,'' said Andrea Schauer, the chief executive of Playmobil's manufacturer, Geobra Brandstatter . ''But we would find strategies to overcome that, to live with that fact.''
 Last year, Playmobil was saved by buoyant sales outside Germany, particularly in France, Italy and Canada. Despite its deep roots in the centuries-old toy trade of nearby Nuremburg, Brandstatter is one of hundreds of German companies that no longer depend on their home country. 
 That helps explain a curious dichotomy here. German corporate executives are more confident than at any time in the last five years, according to recent surveys. Booming exports have lifted their profits and turned the German stock market into one of the world's star performers.
 Yet German consumers remain in a funk. The unemployment rate is 12 percent, near a post-World War II record, and people are worried about losing their jobs. On the same day that Volkswagen reported higher profits recently, it announced it would eliminate up to 20,000 jobs.
 The big question is when -- and whether -- this German industrial revival will spill over into the rest of the economy. Until it does, Germany will be fallow ground for a company like Playmobil, which sells elaborately detailed planes, pirate ships, and fairy-tale castles, along with its figures.
 Playmobil has an additional problem, Ms. Schauer said in an interview at the company's headquarters in this northern Bavarian town. German couples, she said, are not having enough children.
 ''It's either one person working, and they want one to three kids, maximum. Or it's two people working, with no kids or one kid only,'' said Ms. Schauer, 46, who is married and has a 15-year-old son.
 The good news is that Playmobil already reaps close to 60 percent of its 377 million euros ($448 million) in sales outside Germany. That percentage is likely to go up as Ms. Schauer seeks to expand the company's presence in the United States, Latin America and Asia.
 The same tilt toward exports is being repeated throughout German industry, from automobiles and machine tools to athletic shoes. Demand for German goods in the United States, Asia and other European countries has allowed BMW, Siemens and Adidas to thrive, despite the weakness here.
 In 2005, German exports grew 7.5 percent, and the country racked up a record trade surplus of $190 billion, making it the world's largest merchandise exporter. The overall economy, however, grew just 1 percent, putting Germany at the bottom of European league tables.
 ''You don't need a strong home base for sales anymore,'' said Dirk Schumacher, an economist at Goldman Sachs in Frankfurt. ''You just need Germany to be a good base for manufacturing.''
 Germany's high labor costs are a problem for mass-market manufacturers like Volkswagen. But small specialized companies like Playmobil have found ways to keep their production in Germany.
 The family-owned company still does the bulk of its manufacturing at a factory a few miles from here. The company's owner, Horst Brandstatter, even invested $76 million in the operations last year, buying 80 injection-molding machines to churn out more plastic figures.
 Seventy percent of the world's toys are manufactured in China, according to Ms. Schauer, which raises the question of why Playmobil has not moved production there. Labor costs in Chinese toy factories average $1 an hour, she said, compared with $25 an hour at the factory in Germany.
 Ms. Schauer said, however, that Playmobil could not manufacture toys of the same quality in China as in Germany, without eroding most of the cost advantages of the Chinese market. ''You can get any level of quality in China,'' she said. ''The question is, At what cost?''
 One trademark of a classic Playmobil figure, she said, is that they are durable enough to be passed down through generations, rather than discarded after a few playing sessions.
 Playmobil, she said, also wants to keep its production lines closer to its major markets in Europe, so it can quickly adjust production to fluctuating levels of demand. Shipping toys from China, she said, would give the company less flexibility in ramping up its production of, say, a World Cup soccer player, if the demand for that toy suddenly spurted.
 This does not mean that Playmobil steers clear of lower-cost countries. It has a large plant on the island of Malta, where it produces 73 million figures a year. It also has a factory in the Czech Republic, which turns out components that are assembled into completed toys in Germany.
 This manually intensive work used to be done by German housewives, working at their kitchen tables, Ms. Schauer said. But Playmobil outgrew this local cottage industry years ago. With an average hourly labor cost of $4.70, the Czech Republic is Playmobil's nod to the global economy.
 Ms. Schauer said she was not ready to rule out producing in China at some point in the future. But ''for the next five years,'' she said, ''we feel that it's better to make the investment here.''
 Now if only Playmobil can figure out how to revive its home market. If Germany is no longer so critical for the company in sales, it remains vitally important as the place Playmobil tests its newest toys.
 This spring, to coincide with the World Cup soccer tournament in Germany, it is introducing a series of soccer players, outfitted in their national colors. As a concession to the demands of the game, the figures will have a movable leg for kicking a soccer ball -- a first for Playmobil.
 The soccer players will appeal to the company's core market: boys, aged 3 to 9. But Ms. Schauer also wants to broaden Playmobil's appeal to older boys and more girls. It is also introducing a set of figures for three fairy tales: Cinderella, Hansel and Gretel, and Snow White.
 Still, Ms. Schauer, who remembers being one of the first girls in her class to own a Barbie doll, is very careful about not messing with Playmobil's image. This is a company that makes firefighters, construction workers and Roman gladiators -- not flaxen-haired fairy-tale nymphs.
 ''We don't want to pretend to be something we're not,'' she said, in a dig at the impossibly proportioned Barbie.
 Ms. Schauer is confident that Playmobil will ride out these tough times. The bigger question is whether Germany will ever again supply legions of young children to play with Playmobil's toys. That, Ms. Schauer conceded, would require significant changes in society.
 As one of the few women to rise to chief executive of a German company, she said she was excited to see Angela Merkel elected as Germany's first female chancellor last November. 
 But Ms. Schauer could not help noting that Ms. Merkel -- who is married to a university professor and has no children -- hardly sets an example to Germans to have big families. ''I hope she understands that if the entire society functions like that, it's going to be tough,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrea Schauer, chief executive of Playmobil's manufacturer, counts on exports. (pg. C1)
Attila Britting, a model builder, works on a model of a cow for Playmobil in Zirndorf, Germany. (Photo by Hand Rudolf Oeser for The New York Times)
Playmobil has been adding machines to make plastic figures. (Photo by Hand Rudolf Oeser for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Not Bringing Up Babies''Germany's birth rate is among the lowest for industrialized nations.CHILDREN BORN PER 1,000 PEOPLE, 2005 ESTIMATESGermany: 8.3Italy: 8.9Japan: 9.5Spain: 10.1Sweden: 10.4Britain: 10.8Canada: 10.8France: 12.2United States: 14.1(Source by C.I.A. World Fact Book)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Out of Step''Germany's economy is weak, leaving consumers reluctant to buy products like toys. But German companies like Playmobil are prospering because of strong export growth.Graph shows UNEMPLOYMENT (Year-end) since 1995.Graph shows GROWTH (Gross domestic product) since 1995.Graph shows STOCKS (DAX 30) since 1995.(Sources by Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); TRENDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); LAYOFFS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); DISMISSALS (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); STOCK INDEXES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Consumer Behavior; Toys; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Unemployment; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: GEOBRA BRANDSTAETTER GMBH & CO KG (74%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Playmobil

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (74%)

PERSON: Andrea Schumer; Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (75%) Germany; Germany

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



491 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 831 words

 BODY:

Arbitrator in Citigroup Case Accused of Conflicts of Interest
A big WorldCom shareholder, who lost a $900 million securities arbitration against Citigroup in November, is asking a federal court to overturn the decision because an arbitrator overseeing the matter failed to disclose significant relationships and past incidents that should have disqualified him, according to a lawsuit filed in federal district court in Denver. [Page C1.] 


White House Explains Decision on Ports Review
The Bush administration decided last month that a politically explosive deal to hand over operations at major American ports to a government-owned company in Dubai did not involve national security and so did not require a more lengthy review, administration officials said. [A1.]

In the political collision between the White House and Congress over the $6.8 billion deal that would give a Dubai company management of six American ports, most experts seem to agree on only one major point: The gaping holes in security at American ports have little to do with the nationality of who is running them. News Analysis. [A1.]

The debate over whether Dubai Ports World, should take over management of American port terminals is seen as a mixed blessing in Dubai, a city that has been trying to raise its profile. [A19.]

Hewlett Tries to Catch Up to Kodak's Kiosks
American consumers, going against industry expectations, have been printing their digital photos in stores rather than on home machines. That trend has forced Hewlett-Packard to scramble to catch up to Kodak, which has some 60,000 photo kiosks in stores across America, like Walgreens, Wal-Mart and RiteAid. Without having its own printer kiosks in stores, the company has missed out on a slice of a $35 billion retail photofinishing business. But starting this month, Hewlett-Packard is moving into that business. [C1.]

WebMD Aims to Go Beyond Information
By helping people enrolled in employer health plans compile personal health information online WebMD Health, the medical information Web site, wants to tap into the growing corporate trend of having employees pay more, if not all, of their own health costs. Market Place. [C1.]

Drug Company Sues Hedge Fund Over Research
The Biovail Corporation, a Canadian pharmaceutical company, has sued S.A.C Capital Management, a powerful hedge fund, accusing it of colluding with independent research providers to issue misleading reports to drive down the price of Biovail's stock. [C5.]

Dow Jones to Merge Print and Online Divisions
Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, announced that it would merge its print and online operations, putting them under L. Gordon Crovitz, who had been president of the online unit. [C6.]

Rivals File Suit Against Microsoft in Europe
Microsoft's antitrust battle in Europe intensified when some of its biggest rivals -- including I.B.M., Oracle, Sun Microsystems -- filed a complaint against it, accusing the company of a wide range of antitrust abuses. [C4.]

Lawsuit Says Ads on Craigslist Are Discriminatory
A housing group in Chicago has sued the online site Craigslist, accusing it of violating the Fair Housing Act by publishing discriminatory ads. [C6.]

Still Seeking Faces for the Wheaties Box
For Madison Avenue, the Olympics so far have been a disappointment, with the most heavily promoted athletes not living up to expectations. [A1.]

Economic News Assists the Stock Market
A combination of moderate inflation and falling oil prices sent stocks higher. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 68.11 points, to 11,137.17. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 9.64 points, to 1,292.67, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 20.21, to 2,283.17. [C11.]

Sharp increases in energy and food costs pushed consumer prices higher last month, but prices of other goods and services rose more modestly, the government reported. [C5.]

Alaska Moves Closer to Building Major Pipeline
After prolonged negotiations, Gov. Frank H. Murkowski, left, announced that Alaska had reached an agreement in principle with BP, ConocoPhillips and ExxonMobil to build a $20 billion pipeline from the North Slope to the lower 48 states by way of Canada. The pipeline would move 4.5 to 6 billion cubic feet of gas daily and begin operating between 2012 to 2014. Alaska has an estimated 35 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves. But significant political, environmental and regulatory hurdles must still be overcome before construction can begin. News Analysis. [C4.]

Renewed Debate Over Journal Article on Vioxx
With a crucial personal-injury trial over Vioxx set to begin in New Jersey next week, the debate heated up again about whether Merck understated the drug's risks in a journal article in November 2000. [C18.]

Nothing Fancy, but These Online Games Are Popular
Because of their popularity and ability to be played in short bursts, casual games are being used to draw traffic to Web sites. Because of their simplicity, they are spreading onto portable devices as well. Circuits. [C9.]

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture in the Business Digest column on Thursday with a report about an agreement for three energy companies to build a gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska to the lower 48 states was published in error. It showed John C. Malone, chairman and controlling shareholder of the Liberty Media Corporation, not Gov. Frank H. Murkowski, who announced the deal.
A picture in the Business Digest column on Thursday with a report about an agreement for three energy companies to build a gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska to the lower 48 states was published in error. It showed John C. Malone, chairman and controlling shareholder of the Liberty Media Corporation, not Gov. Frank H. Murkowski, who announced the deal.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Hewlett-Packard stock closes since January, 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); LITIGATION (89%); TRENDS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (85%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); DP WORLD LTD (84%); VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL INC (81%); DOW JONES & CO INC (80%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); WEBMD HEALTH CORP (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); DPW (LSE) (84%); VRX (TSX) (81%); VRX (NYSE) (81%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); WBMD (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



492 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE REACTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Panel Saw No Security Issue In Port Contract, Officials Say

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and CARL HULSE; Stephen Labaton and Eric Lipton contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
The Bush administration decided last month that a deal to hand over operations at major American ports to a government-owned company in Dubai did not involve national security and so did not require a more lengthy review, administration officials said Wednesday.
 The decision was made by an interagency committee led by Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert M. Kimmitt. The group included officials from 12 departments and agencies, including the Departments of Defense, Justice, State and Homeland Security, as well as the National Security Council and the National Economic Council. 
In a telephone interview on Wednesday, Mr. Kimmitt said that the company, Dubai Ports World, had been thoroughly investigated by the administration, including by intelligence agencies, and that on Jan. 17 the panel members unanimously approved the transfer.
 ''None of them objected to the deal proceeding on national security grounds,'' he said.
 Mr. Kimmitt made his comments as the political furor over the ports dominated Washington, where Republicans in Congress remained in open rebellion against President Bush and the White House spent the day trying to tamp down the uprising. 
 An objection from any member of the interagency committee would have started, as required by law, an additional 45-day review. Such a review is being urged by governors and members of Congress. 
 Mr. Bush and his top aides are strongly resisting that. Even before the transfer became known, the administration's review of foreign business deals had come under criticism for not being sufficiently sensitive to national security. 
 In September, the Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress, said the Treasury Department, as head of the interagency committee that reviews such deals, had used an overly narrow definition of national security threats because it wanted to encourage foreign investment.
 The department disputed those findings, saying that the committee had used an adequate definition and that decisions had been reached by consensuses of agencies with differing interests.
 The review began in mid-October. The chief operating officer of Dubai Ports World, Edward H. Bilkey, said he and other executives met in December with Mr. Kimmitt's committee and then had numerous additional meetings before the final decision. 
 ''There is no big deal about it,'' Mr. Bilkey said in an interview. ''We complied with what the requirements were, and there was no problem.''
 Scott McClellan, the president's spokesman, said Mr. Bush became aware over the weekend of the deal, for some of the facilities in several major ports, including New York, Baltimore and Miami. 
 ''One thing the president did, and even after all this press coverage of this transaction, was go back to every cabinet member whose department is involved in this process and ask them, 'Are you comfortable with this deal going forward?' '' Mr. McClellan said. ''And each and every one expressed that they were comfortable with this transaction going forward.''
 In a rare admission of error and in an indication that the White House might be seeking a deal with Capitol Hill to halt the furor, Mr. McClellan also said, ''We probably should have briefed Congress about it sooner.''
 Republicans said an agreement by the White House to delay the transfer would help. 
 ''If the president announces between now and next Monday or Tuesday that he is going to hold it for 45 days, have an investigation and consult with Congress, I think that would at least buy time,'' said Representative Peter T. King, a New York Republican who is a leading opponent of the new port management. 
 He said Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois had assured him that they ''were on the same page'' on halting the sale.
 The White House dispatched aides to brief advisers to the Republican leadership on the rationale for the deal, and the port company retained high-powered help to deal with Capitol Hill, including former Senator Bob Dole and the lobbying firm of former Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright.
 Mr. Bush threatened on Tuesday to veto any bills to block a deal for the company to run the ports.
 Lawmakers and aides said the nearly united Republican resistance in Congress was a new atmosphere for a White House accustomed to strong public support for its policies and the willingness to settle any disagreements privately. But it was not seen as a permanent break.
 ''Over the past five years, the president has made the right call over and over again,'' said Eric Ueland, chief of staff for Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader. ''This is one time. Nobody wants to come to a giant battle over this. We want homeland security. He wants homeland security.''
 Democrats who joined in the call to scuttle the port transfer said they considered Congressional Republicans newcomers on port security. They began circulating voting records to show that Republicans had rejected increases in spending on port safety.
 ''All of the sudden, they want to act really tough,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''But when it came to strengthening port security and implementing the 9/11 commission recommendations, they were nowhere to be found.''
 Before the administration approved the transfer from a British company, P&O Ports, Dubai Ports World had to agree to cooperate with future United States investigations, said an administration official who spoke only if granted anonymity because of the confidentiality of the agreement.
 The official, confirming details first reported by the Associated Press, said the company agreed to disclose on demand records about ''foreign operational direction'' of its United States ports, including details on equipment, design and operations. The company does not have to keep copies of business records on American soil, where they would be subject to court orders, the official said. The report by the General Accountability Office in September included sharp criticism of the review process carried out by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, the committee created in 1975 to review foreign investments that could affect national security. The report said the committee, under the Clinton and Bush administrations, had often construed national security too narrowly, looking only at such factors as the control over technology exports, classified contracts and specific derogatory information about a company.
 For that reason, the report said, the committee had too rarely subjected investments to intensive scrutiny. In addition, the report said Treasury officials believed that ''being the subject of an investigation may have negative connotations for a company.'' Since 1997, the government has investigated 8 out of 470 notifications of pending contracts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (86%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); TERRORISM (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Ships and Shipping ; Foreign Investments; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%) Dubai Ports World; Defense Department; Justice Department; Homeland Security Department; National Security Council; National Economic Council

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (85%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Carl Hulse; Robert M (Deputy Sec) Kimmitt; George W (Pres) Bush; Scott Mcclellan

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (95%) Dubai

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



493 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: New York Wonders: An Island Fit for What?

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
It's the kind of choice development site that would have made an old-school planning czar like Robert Moses salivate: 172 acres of waterfront property just off the tip of Manhattan.
 Yet city and state officials clearly are at a loss about what to do with Governors Island. Abandoned by the Coast Guard 10 years ago, it is half occupied by a sprawl of abandoned military buildings, including two brooding early 19th-century Army forts, protected by landmark status. The other half mostly consists of modest housing built by the Coast Guard in the 1970's and 80's. Last week, city and state officials issued an open call to development teams in the hope of forging a new vision. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg touted a proposal to create an aerial gondola linking the island to Lower Manhattan, but he was essentially pleading for any idea that could rescue the site.
In asking developers to take the lead, government officials risk quashing creativity at the outset. More broadly, their appeal raises questions about how American cities -- New York in particular -- are approaching large-scale urban development these days, handing over enormous swaths of public land to private interests. In the past, such a process tended to favor conventional design solutions 
 For an architect, of course, the site could not be more inspiring. The view from the island is a reminder of the unlimited architectural aspirations that made New York such a radical urban creation. A half-mile from the cluster of towers rising in Lower Manhattan, it offers the same thrill to a New Yorker that a view of Santa Maria della Salute does to a Venetian; it is a machine age counterpart to the entry to the Grand Canal.
 The split personality of Governors Island is also intriguing. The northern half seems frozen in time, a collection of 18th-, 19th- and early-20th-century landmarks ranging from the pretty Victorian frame houses that envelop Nolan Park to the massive neo-Classical brick shell of Liggett Hall, completed by McKim, Mead & White in 1929. 
 By comparison, the rows of bland brick Coast Guard housing on the island's southern half are all eligible for demolition. Aside from an appealing 1960's-era elementary school building with simple, brick-clad geometric forms, little of it has architectural merit.
 That divide makes Governors Island an ideal laboratory for exploring competing desires to preserve the past and embrace the present -- and for dreaming up alternatives to worn-out urban planning formulas that degrade history by mimicking it.
 But to architects who have followed the process, the halfhearted planning studies of the last few years do not inspire much confidence. Even government officials acknowledge that proposals from both state and nonprofit groups like the Governors Island Alliance were dull and uninspired. 
 The new call for proposals is an acknowledgment that the government no longer has the resources or ambition to drive a major public works project.
 To the extent that the city has any vision at all, it is its yearning to link the development to a broader harbor district that includes a new landscaped promenade along the East River waterfront and Brooklyn Bridge Park. Pushed by Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, and Amanda Burden, chairwoman of the city planning department, the district would visually link Manhattan, Brooklyn and Governors Island while drawing life out to the river. If that plan becomes reality, it could well be one of Mayor Bloomberg's most lasting legacies.
 In the city's view, the exotic aerial gondolas, conceived by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, would further that plan. Suspended from a cable system that evokes gigantic badminton nets, the round cars would have a 360-degree view of the city below. 
 It's an elaborately overblown structure for such a limited function, and it would tamper with one of the world's most spectacular views. But Mr. Calatrava's sketch is really nothing more than a teaser to give the project some desperately needed cachet. The underlying message to developers is that the city will go to remarkable lengths to overcome Governors Island's isolation from tourists milling around downtown Manhattan.
 A more troubling problem with the city's approach is that there is no cohesive master plan that could provide a framework for development. 
 According to the federal guidelines set out in the island's deed, 40 acres of the new development must be reserved for a public park. Developers will also have to provide a waterfront esplanade.
 Otherwise, conjuring an image for the island's future will be left up to developers. It could include anything from a think tank to a theme park, Mr. Doctoroff has said. Not all countries operate this way. In Spain and the Netherlands, city and regional governments typically organize elaborate design competitions for a major urban site, then hire a developer to figure out how to put the idea into practice.
 An aggressive government role in galvanizing the best creative minds is virtually nonexistent in the United States, where political and financial power has shifted to the private realm. That's why New York has fallen behind cities like Barcelona, Rotterdam and even London in terms of the level of ambition behind public works projects. In New York, the system can foster a poisonous mix of political self-interest and commercial greed, as it did at ground zero.
 Fortunately, Governors Island lacks the political and emotional baggage of the former World Trade Center site. But reinventing the island -- a historically strategic military base at the center of one of the world's great harbors -- may require an even higher level of creative imagination. What is needed is an architect and developer willing to take a joint leap into the unknown.
 Anything short of that will probably leave us with another white elephant. For now, let's cross our fingers and enjoy what's left of the view.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Views of Governors Island: top left, Coast Guard housing
top right and bottom right, Nolan Park houses
middle left, a cannon points at Manhattan
middle right, the island in relation to Manhattan
and bottom left, a 1960's elementary school. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times, except middle right, by Mike Segar/Reuters)(pg. E1)
 Renderings by the architect Santiago Calatrava of his proposed aerial gondola system that would link Manhattan and Governors Island. (Renderings by Santiago Calatrava)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); CITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); ARMIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Area Planning and Renewal; Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: Coast Guard (US)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (68%) Nicolai Ouroussoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Governors Island (NYC); New York City; New York State; Governors Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



494 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Study Plays Down Export of Computer Jobs 

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The movement of computing work abroad represents an economic and scientific challenge, but the fears of job migration far outweigh the reality so far, according to a new study by the Association for Computing Machinery.
 The lengthy report, to be released today, is the result of a yearlong project by the professional organization to assess the impact and implications of the outsourcing of software development and research.
The study concluded that dire predictions of job losses from shifting high-technology work to low-wage nations with strong education systems, like India and China, were greatly exaggerated. 
 Though international in perspective, the study group found that the most likely prognosis for the United States would be that 2 percent to 3 percent of the jobs in information technology would go offshore annually over the next decade or so. 
 But more jobs will be created than are lost in the future, they said, as long as the industry in America moves up the economic ladder to do higher-value work -- typically, applying information technology to other fields, like biology and business. They noted that employment in the information technology industry was higher today than it was at the peak of the dot-com bubble, despite the growth of offshore outsourcing in the last few years. 
 ''The global competition has gotten tougher and we have to run faster,'' said Moshe Y. Vardi, co-chair of the study group and a computer scientist at Rice University. ''But the notion that information technology jobs are disappearing is just nonsense. The data don't bear that out.''
 Yet the view that job opportunities in computing are dwindling fast is both common and potentially damaging to America's competitive prowess, according to David A. Patterson, president of the Association for Computing Machinery.
 He pointed to the declining interest in computer science as a major among American college students, based on a survey last year of the intentions of students entering college. The results suggested that only 1 in 75 students would major in computer science, compared with 1 in 30 in 2000.
 ''The perception among high school students and their parents is that the game is over -- that all computing jobs are going overseas,'' observed Mr. Patterson, who is a computer science professor at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It's an extraordinarily widely held misperception.''
 The concern, he said, is that misplaced pessimism will deter bright young people from pursuing careers in computing. That, in turn, would erode the skills in a field that is crucial to the nation's economic competitiveness.
 In the recent debate on outsourcing, software has been considered one of the industries most susceptible to rapid job migration because code can be easily shipped over the Internet anywhere in the world. So the report's generally reassuring outlook is significant.
 Still, offshore outsourcing raises some serious issues, the report noted. The benefits and pain of the globalization of technical work are unevenly spread. ''It may be good for the economy, but it may not be good for you'' if you lose your job, said Mr. Vardi of Rice University.
 Federal job retraining programs, the report said, are currently focused on the manufacturing industry instead of high-technology services. The report also calls for changes in computing education.
 ''This is a huge challenge to education,'' Mr. Vardi said, ''to try to determine what is the right mix of skills as we try to move up the economic ladder.'' Ronil Hira, an assistant professor of public policy at the Rochester Institute of Technology, was one of the experts consulted by the computing association's study group. Mr. Hira, coauthor of ''Outsourcing America,'' said the report took ''a feel-good'' stance on the outlook for jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); OFFSHORING (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; International Trade and World Market; Computer Software; Research; Wages and Salaries; Hiring and Promotion; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY (84%); RICE UNIVERSITY (54%) Assn of Computing Machinery

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%) India; China

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



495 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: South From Alaska: Tricky Years of Maneuver Ahead for Proposed Gas Pipeline 

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
A conditional agreement between Alaska and three big energy companies may be, as Gov. Frank H. Murkowski put it, a milestone toward building a natural gas pipeline. 
 But significant political, environmental and regulatory hurdles must be overcome before a single section of pipe meets a welding torch.
After prolonged negotiations, Governor Murkowski announced late Monday that Alaska had reached an agreement in principle with BP, ConocoPhillips and Exxon Mobil to build a $20 billion pipeline from the North Slope to the lower 48 states by way of Canada. 
 As envisioned, the pipeline would move 4.5 billion to 6 billion cubic feet of gas daily and begin operating sometime from 2012 to 2014. Alaska has an estimated 35 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves.
 The announcement came with news of a significant change to the oil royalty system that provides most of Alaska's state budget revenue. Under the plan, the system will be shifted to one based on net profit rather than the volume of production.
 ''These are two historic events,'' Governor Murkowski said, ''ones that will define the state's economy for decades to come.'' 
 Almost no one denies that changes to the royalty system, which now provides about 83 percent of the state's revenue, will have a potentially significant effect. But some gas analysts cautioned that the pipeline's future would be shaped by forces well beyond the governor's control.
 ''This agreement is only one step on the part of one potential applicant to build a project,'' said Arlon Tussing, a research economist at the University of Alaska, Anchorage, who specializes in gas projects. ''The final decision about this is going to be made by the respective regulatory authorities in the United States and Canada, as well as their governments. And there's going to be tremendous opposition.''
 The plan will meet its most immediate tests in Alaska's Legislature, where Democrats have criticized the governor's decision to reduce proposed pipeline taxes to 20 percent of profit from an earlier plan of 25 percent. The broader overhaul of the oil tax system is also expected to face criticism.
 And there is substantial popular support for another proposal in Alaska that would build a smaller pipeline to Anchorage and the port of Valdez, and then ship the gas south by tanker.
 Nonetheless, the political maneuvering at the state level may prove easier to resolve than other issues.
 The idea of increasing American gas supplies using American sources has obvious political and national security appeal, particularly given that the fuel is increasingly used as a substitute for coal in electricity-generating stations.
 Andre Plourde, an energy economist at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, said that the world's largest known gas reserves were concentrated in countries not known for political stability, notably Iran and Russia.
 ''Given the Bush administration's focus on what it considers to be energy security,'' Mr. Plourde said, ''Alaska is going to get a favorable hearing.'' 
 But if natural gas prices drop from their current levels, as many expect, economic concerns may outweigh the emphasis on security. If the forecasts of Professor Tussing and others bear out, gas piped from Alaska will have a difficult time competing with gas shipped by tanker from low-cost producers overseas.
 Professor Tussing estimates that North American gas reserves are now about 9.5 times annual production. Reserves elsewhere, by contrast, are 88 times production.
 ''That means it is a lot easier to increase production almost anywhere other than North America,'' he said. ''We have pretty much wrung out the continent.''
 A preview of some regulatory issues facing an Alaska pipeline might be found in more advanced efforts to build a gas pipeline from the Canadian Arctic. That project, with investors that also include Exxon Mobil, has been repeatedly delayed, in part because of issues surrounding land claims by native groups along the route. The Alaskan project will encounter similar issues over permission to dip into the Yukon Territory and parts of Alberta.
 Climate change may also complicate environmental reviews. Antoni Lewkowicz, a professor of geography at the University of Ottawa, worked on permafrost issues surrounding an Alaska pipeline plan more than 20 years ago. A pattern of warming weather in the Arctic today, he warned, will make engineering the current proposal difficult and costly.
 ''One of the things that killed the pipeline back in 1982 was the expense of the permafrost accommodations,'' Professor Lewkowicz said. ''Today, it's going to be very difficult to come up with a design that can deal with current conditions and the climate changes that will occur over the next 30 to 50 years. It's a significant and very costly engineering challenge.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (78%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (62%) Gas (Fuel); Pipelines; International Trade and World Market; Environment; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (91%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bp Plc; Conocophillips; Exxon Mobil

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (91%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (95%); ALBERTA, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Alaska; North Slope (Alaska); Canada

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



496 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Adding the Avian Flu To the Be-Prepared List

BYLINE: By PATRICIA R. OLSEN

 BODY:
The possibility of an avian flu pandemic is enough to give any small- business owner nightmares. What if a quarter of your business was selling home-delivered and takeout chicken across the United States? Or your sales force in Asia was subject to quarantine? What if your employees couldn't work from home?
 With every passing week, another instance of avian flu has been documented in birds, most recently in India, France and Germany. After 9/11, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and Hurricane Katrina, small businesses have learned: be prepared or else. Owners and managers have to develop contingency plans using limited resources.
''Many people plan for the worst-case scenario, but that's not the way to go about it,'' said Donna R. Childs, co-author of ''Contingency Planning and Disaster Recovery: A Small Business Guide'' (John Wiley & Sons, 2002). ''Take incremental steps and build on that.'' 
 For the Steak-Out Char-Broiled Delivery company in Norcross, Ga., the first step was to get the message out that customers do not have to worry about eating chicken, said Aftan Romanczak, director for research and development. Chicken accounts for about a quarter of the business in its 70 franchises across the country. 
 If the avian flu virus were detected in the United States, ''the chance of infected poultry entering the human food chain would be extremely low,'' according to the Department of Agriculture. But Steak-Out is not taking any chances. For example, it has distributed to franchisees preprinted bags containing reheating instructions for takeout and delivered meals. Each week, it sends reminders to operators about safe handling and proper cooking temperatures. The idea is to show customers how easily illness can be avoided without spreading a negative message, Mr. Romanczak said.
 In his business, perception of safety measures, by both employees and customers, is everything, he said, so warding off panic and the illogical behavior that can result is crucial.
 ''You never hear anything about food safety in this country unless it's attached to an outbreak of a food-borne illness,'' Mr. Romanczak said. ''The bottom line is that ultimately, the employees at the store level are the last firewall before we reach the customer. It's a public service to educate everyone that chicken is safe to eat as long as you cook it to the proper temperature.''
 Last fall, after being spurred to action by his managing director in Asia, Lou Hoffman, chief executive of the Hoffman Agency, a San Jose, Calif., marketing communications firm with 105 employees, started planning for a possible pandemic. During the SARS outbreak in 2003, Hoffman employees in six Asian offices were quarantined. That made Mr. Hoffman think about the company's two offices in the United States and three in Europe, and what could happen regarding avian flu. 
 After meeting with his chief financial officer and information technology manager, he said, he revamped technology operations to enable all his employees to telecommute. Instead of having company data available on one computer, or server, at headquarters, as is currently the case, he bought a Web service that gives employees access to applications over the Internet. The company has also started backing up local servers to the computer at headquarters. 
 With these two changes, Mr. Hoffman said, should vital employees be unable to get to an office to run a computer or reset it, they will still have access to company data and applications.
 As part of his preparedness plan, Mr. Hoffman is also duplicating, or mirroring, the data on the San Jose computer and storing a copy on a new server in the Denver office. He has supplied laptops to the third of his staff that lacked them, replacing older laptops and paying for broadband access at employees' homes where it is available. He also took advantage of a tool that many larger companies employ: an e-room, or online central repository for documents -- a setup that also allows for collaboration.
 Most recently, his staff established a preparedness budget of about $145,000 for the remainder of 2006 to include training, equipment purchases and new or upgraded Internet services.
 Besides backing up vital records and functions at a secondary location, it is a good idea for small businesses to start networking to find a source of replacement workers, said Peter Morici, an economist and professor of business at the University of Maryland. 
 In addition, he said, if a business's area is quarantined, but its customers are in areas that are not, then it pays to move to another location. 
 ''The last thing you want to happen,'' Professor Morici said, ''is that your business is shut down but your competitors are not because they're in another location.'' 
 Because of 9/11, Ms. Childs, 39, the chief executive of Childs Capital, a boutique Wall Street firm, is well aware of the need to back up data and ensure that employees are set up to work remotely, she said. The attacks left her company without services like gas, water, electricity and mail delivery for several weeks and in some cases, several months. 
 ''We had contingency plans in place, but we learned how unprepared other businesses were,'' Ms. Childs said.
 Childs Capital is in a building in a part of the World Trade Center site that incurred heavy damage. Insurance reimbursed the company for things like soot removal, but the physical damage the company suffered was not the half of it, she said. All small businesses should consider business-interruption insurance to cover their lost income during the time they are shut down, Ms. Childs said. This insurance was only an incremental cost to her existing commercial insurance, she said, adding 5 percent to her policy.
 It is also a good idea to cross-train employees and identify potential new suppliers, said Joan Pfinsgraff, director of health intelligence at iJET Intelligent Risk Systems in Annapolis, Md.; that company's small-business clients include law firms, event management companies and local and regional travel agencies.
 For small businesses working overseas, she recommends developing communications, tracking and monitoring systems. She also advises having a preselected group in place to make policy decisions about things like employee travel because a pandemic would leave little time for planning once it hit.
 ''If the decision maker will be the C.E.O.,'' Dr. Pfinsgraff said, ''then that person needs to be fed reliable information and obtain professional advice to determine if, when and where to evacuate or relocate personnel.''
 In the event of a pandemic, Professor Morici also recommends a government plan that small businesses ''can plug into so they can see what the framework will be.''
 Lisa Koonin, associate director of business partnerships for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said her division was planning initiatives to provide tools to small businesses. Some of these could be added to the business planning checklist at cdc.gov/flu/pandemic/checklists.htm.
 Planning information for an avian flu pandemic is available at conferences in various countries. In October, Ms. Childs gave tips on business protection at a seminar in Beijing for small and midsize businesses. The Department of Health and Human Services lists state summit meetings at pandemicflu.gov.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steak-Out does not want customers to worry about eating chicken. Chris LunDeen grills in Chesterfield, Mo. (Photo by Tim Parker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIAN INFLUENZA (94%); INFLUENZA (93%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); ANIMAL QUARANTINE (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SARS (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); POULTRY (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HURRICANES (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); FRANCHISEES (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRODUCT SAFETY (69%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (69%); VIRUSES (51%) Influenza; Small Business; Avian Influenza

COMPANY: SONESTA INTERNATIONAL HOTELS CORP (69%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (56%); HOFFMAN AGENCY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Steak-Out Char-Broiled Delivery (Co)

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (56%); JWA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (69%); NAICS483212 INLAND WATER PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); SIC4489 WATER TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, NEC (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: Aftan Romanczak; Patricia R Olsen

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%); GERMANY (57%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



497 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Rose in January, Report Says

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Sharp increases in energy and food costs pushed consumer prices higher last month, but prices of other goods and services rose more modestly, the government reported yesterday.
 The report appears to allay fears that the increase in energy prices from last year would speed inflation in the broader economy, but analysts said they suspected it might not be enough to dissuade Federal Reserve policy makers from raising interest rates at least once and maybe twice before stopping. 
Consumer prices were up 0.7 percent in January, after dropping 0.1 percent in December and falling 0.7 percent in November, the Labor Department reported. The core index, which excludes food and energy, was up 0.2 percent last month, after a 0.1 percent increase in December and 0.2 percent rise in November.
 Energy prices jumped 5 percent in the last month, and the price of fruits and vegetables rose 1.7 percent. Oil, gasoline and other energy commodities, which fell at the end of last year from highs set in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, began climbing last month on concerns about Iran's nuclear ambitions and strife in Nigeria. Retail gasoline prices jumped 6.4 percent last month.
 Economists have been expecting businesses to pass on higher energy costs to consumers, but that has not happened in a significant way thus far, with the apparent exception of certain items of food.
 Some analysts said the growth in world trade appeared to be helping the American economy weather higher energy prices by making it harder to raise prices. 
 ''There has been a lot of structural change in the economy in the past 10 or 20 years, primarily because producers have to confront greater competition largely from foreign producers,'' said Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist at Global Insight, a research firm.
 But many economists and Fed policy makers are not so certain that the current trend will hold, given the recent increases in hiring and consumer demand, both of which will signal to businesses that they may be able to pass higher costs on to customers.
 ''When you are in an environment of pretty strong consumer demand and labor markets have tightened, you create the potential of some pass-through,'' said David Greenlaw, an economist at Morgan Stanley. He noted that the recent surge in oil and other energy prices was the biggest the nation had seen since the 1970's.
 Mr. Greenlaw and other economists said that the January figures were not completely reassuring because they were helped by one-time items like a 0.3 percent drop in doctor's fees, a rare and large decline that the government attributed to changes in the way Medicare reimburses physicians. Medical costs over all rose 0.1 percent last month, after rising 0.2 percent in December and 0.5 percent in November.
 Regardless of whether energy prices are filtering through to the costs of other goods and services, they are taking a toll on consumers. When adjusted for inflation, average weekly wages for production and nonsupervisory workers, about 80 percent of the labor force, fell 0.2 percent last month, the Labor Department reported. Wages were up 0.4 percent in unadjusted terms.
 Compared with a year earlier, the consumer price index was up 4 percent in January; excluding food and energy, the core index was up 2.1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (93%); FOOD PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); HURRICANES (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (67%); TROPICAL STORMS (52%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Price Index; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



498 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Let Traffic Flow and So Will Commerce, Groups Tell City 

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
In an unusual pairing of business and environmental interests, five neighborhood business groups are asking the Bloomberg administration to do more to relieve congestion on city streets, citing a new study of private car traffic in Manhattan.
 The business groups, representing property owners in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens, signed a letter sent last week to Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff that criticizes ''current piecemeal efforts to relieve traffic and promote alternatives to driving.''
The City Hall letter was accompanied by an advance copy of a study, to be released today, that was commissioned by an advocacy group, Transportation Alternatives. Relying largely on government data, it concludes that private cars far outnumber buses, trucks and commercial vehicles, many people entering Manhattan by car are simply passing through, and 90 percent of commuters in private cars could be using public transportation. 
 ''This makes it clear that we don't have to accept the old argument that restricting automobile use will hurt the economy,'' said Paul Steely White, the executive director of Transportation Alternatives, a 32-year-old advocacy group supported by member contributions and foundation grants.
 The study, conducted by Bruce Schaller, a transportation consultant who has extensively worked for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission, offers no broad solutions. But it proposes a series of steps long advocated by transportation planners: dedicating more space on the streets for buses and bicycles and freeing more sidewalk space for pedestrians.
 ''We wanted to jump in with both feet and say we agree,'' said Barbara Adler, the executive director of the Columbus Avenue Business Improvement District on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. Also signing the City Hall letter were a nearby Manhattan group, the Columbus-Amsterdam Avenue Business Improvement District; two groups in Brooklyn, the Myrtle Avenue Brooklyn Partnership and the North Flatbush Avenue Business Improvement District; and the Sutphin Boulevard Business Improvement District in Queens. ''We are not saying 'put an end to cars,' '' said Mirvlyn Brice, the executive director of the North Flatbush Avenue group, which represents a congested business strip between Atlantic Avenue and Grand Army Plaza. ''We are focusing on how we can make things more pedestrian friendly.''
 Jennifer Falk, a spokeswoman for Mr. Doctoroff, said he was reviewing the letter and the study, but declined to comment further.
 Mr. Schaller's analysis, entitled ''Necessity or Choice: Why People Drive to Manhattan,'' raises questions about how passenger cars affect the city's economy. It found that most people who drive into Manhattan below 60th Street do so because of the comfort and convenience of their cars, ignoring easily available public transportation.
 Sixty percent of the vehicles on those streets are passenger cars, and congestion has surged since 2001, the study found. 
 The study found that a large share of people driving into Manhattan are bound for somewhere else and therefore contribute little to the city's economy beyond bridge or tunnel tolls. It said 61 percent of those crossing East River bridges were making through trips and that more than 30 percent of those using Hudson River tunnels were bound for destinations outside Manhattan's main business district.
 The analysis also underscored some of the political tensions that surround restrictions on car use and have emerged in the past when officials have suggested measures like congestion pricing -- imposing a fee to drive into the business district when traffic is heaviest -- as a method to discourage people from driving at peak times.
 It found that more people who live in other parts of the city commute by private cars into the main Manhattan business district than those who live in the suburbs. The largest number of city drivers are in Brooklyn and Queens, the study found, making them unlikely to support congestion pricing by way of East River bridges.
 Support for restrictions on private cars is not fully shared among business people. The business groups publicly supporting such restrictions represent less than 10 percent of the city's business improvement districts, and none of them are in the main business district.
 But executives said there had been a broad shift in attitudes from the days when business leaders almost universally sought greater access for their customers and employees who wanted to drive into Manhattan from the suburbs.
 ''There has been a gradual shift over 30 years,'' said Daniel A. Biederman, the executive director of the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation. Although many business owners might still oppose stiffer restrictions on private car use, ''it would be closer to 50-50,'' he said, ''and there wouldn't be strident opposition.''
 Tim Tompkins, the president of the Times Square Alliance, a group that has struggled for years with the problems of gridlocked vehicular and pedestrian traffic, responded cautiously to the Transportation Alternatives report.
 ''You can think of the transportation system as the arteries of the city economy, and there is no doubt that the arteries are clogged,'' he said. ''But you have to proceed carefully and make sure the oxygen gets through.''

 Holland -- 94
Brooklyn-Battery -- 91
Queens-Midtown -- 91
Lincoln -- 84

*Vans and light trucks are included with cars for tunnels
(Source by Bruce Schaller, Schaller Consulting)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Signs of Congestion''Although slightly below 2000 levels, traffic in the central business district of Manhattan has climbed rapidly in the last few years.Graph tracks Vehicles Accumulating In Manhattan Below 60th Street, Daily Average since 1994.Passenger cars make up the majority of trips across bridges and through tunnels into the central business district.PERCENTAGE OF CROSSINGS MADE BY AUTOMOBILESBridgesBrooklyn -- 92%Queensboro -- 77Williamsburg -- 65Manhattan -- 47Tunnels*

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); CYCLING (64%); FOUNDATIONS (52%) Roads and Traffic; Buses; Bicycles and Bicycling

ORGANIZATION: Transportation Alternatives (Orgn)

PERSON: Thomas J Lueck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



499 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: For Generics, Bumpy Road To Pharmacy

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
A generic version of Flonase, a popular allergy spray, was approved for sale by federal drug regulators Wednesday. The generic should be available within days, its maker said. 
 Flonase is one of the most popular drugs in the world, with $1.14 billion in sales last year. Sales of branded drugs often tumble more than 90 percent within weeks of the introduction of a generic version.
Officials at the Food and Drug Administration held a news conference to announce the generic's approval, the first such gathering for a decision about a generic drug in recent memory. The heightened attention may have been intended to rebut criticism in recent weeks that the agency is falling behind in its review of generic-drug applications. 
 ''The generic-drug program is very important to the F.D.A.,'' said Gary Buehler, director of the Office of Generic Drugs at the agency.
 The Bush administration has proposed no increase in the office's budget of $28 million for 2007, even though the number of generic drug applications more than doubled in the past five years, to 777 last year from 320 in 2001. 
 The agency now has a backlog of 850 applications for generic drugs, more than twice that of 2002. 
 Several members of a House appropriations subcommittee suggested last week to Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, the drug agency's acting commissioner, that Congress might add money to his agency's generic-drug budget.
 ''We may be able to help you out on that,'' said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, Republican of Missouri. 
 In a speech on Friday before an audience of generic-drug manufacturers, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the drug agency's deputy commissioner for medical and scientific affairs, suggested that generic-drug makers should consider paying fees to the agency so it could hire more staff members to reduce the backlog. 
 Branded-drug makers and medical device companies pay such fees.
 But generic-drug makers are resisting the proposals. Kathleen Jaeger, president and chief executive of the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, said the government would have to spend only another $15 million annually to eliminate the backlog of generic-drug applications.
 With federal and state governments spending hundreds of billions of dollars on drug purchases annually, such an investment would pay for itself quickly as the government could buy cheaper pills, Ms. Jaeger said. More than half of all prescriptions in the United States are filled with generic drugs, and the sales of such drugs rose 21 percent last year, according to I.M.S. Health, a drug information company.
 The generic-drug industry would consider fees if the drug agency would ''close unintended loopholes and regulatory abuses'' that delay the introduction of generic drugs by months and years, Ms. Jaeger said. 
 Such action is unlikely, however, because the agency has little control over some delaying factors, including the patenting of many aspects of a drug's manufacture and use.
 Flonase is a case in point. GlaxoSmithKline, the British drug giant that makes Flonase, filed two ''citizen petitions,'' each with supplements, asking the agency to consider or reconsider various aspects of the approval process. Other parties filed at least two such petitions. 
 The agency was required to consider the petitions and to write responses. That took time and delayed the approval, Mr. Buehler said. 
 Mary Anne Rhyne, a spokeswoman for GlaxoSmithKline, said the company was considering legal action. Ms. Rhyne would not say whether the target of those actions would be the agency or the generic's maker, Roxane Laboratories.
 Mark Vincent, a spokesman for Boehringer Ingelheim, which owns Roxane, said the company began shipping the generic version of Flonase on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC DRUGS (96%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Medicine and Health; Flonase (Drug); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Allergies; Generic and Brand Name Products; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%) Food and Drug Administration

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW VON ESCHENBACH (56%); JO ANN EMERSON (52%) Gardiner Harris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



500 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: At Harvard, Resignation Puts Big Plans on Pause

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY and ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Officials at Harvard University faced a divided campus yesterday along with fear that a search for a new president could put in limbo ambitious plans for an expansive new campus in Boston, an overhaul of undergraduate studies and a fund-raising campaign for $5 billion or more.
 One day after Lawrence H. Summers announced he was resigning as president in a standoff with the prestigious Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the campus seemed torn anew. Professors who had hoped for his ouster expressed relief. Yet supporters, including students, saw only lost opportunities, and some were moving to hold campus rallies or publish opinion articles in support of Dr. Summers. 
Sinking in, too, was that a new, unpleasant chapter had been added to the 370-year history of Harvard, a university that takes its history very seriously.
 Dr. Summers had been widely seen as a president who would serve 10, maybe 20, years and usher in landmark changes. Instead he lasted five years, and some of his grandest ambitions -- like the new science, arts and professional school campus in Boston -- are far from realized or have been scaled back.
 The idea that Harvard had arrived at some indeterminate crossroads was reinforced by the fact that the university's governing corporation had turned to a soothing elder -- former Harvard President Derek C. Bok, who served from 1971 to 1991 -- to take over on July 1 on an interim basis. 
 ''It's very hard to say where Harvard goes from here -- it's an unprecedented situation,'' said Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology and a supporter of Dr. Summers. ''I think all the major projects are in limbo right now, which can't be good. At the same time, Derek has given a great deal of thought to what works and what doesn't in education. That's exactly the kind of expertise we need for the ongoing curriculum reform, which a lot of us feel is a massive failure.''
 In a brief interview yesterday, Dr. Bok said the corporation had asked him ''only a few days ago'' to become interim president. 
 He said he expected to serve for a year and acknowledged that he had a lot of catch-up work to do. Dr. Bok is a prolific author on education issues and works on the Harvard faculty, but he has not been actively involved in university affairs for 15 years. 
 ''This whole thing came up very late and very unexpectedly, and I don't want to say too much because the stage belongs to Larry and the corporation,'' Dr. Bok said by phone from his home in Florida. ''I have not been involved in Harvard business for some time and will do an immense amount of reading over the next few weeks on the curriculum change, the new campus plans and other issues.''
 Several faculty members and administrators described Dr. Bok as a popular figure who will help soothe the anger toward Dr. Summers and help close some major fund-raising deals. It is unclear whether he will be able to do much more than that from a temporary perch, those observers said.
 Harvard announced plans last week for a 500,000-square-foot science complex and a temporary museum space in Boston, across the Charles River from the Cambridge, Mass., campus. 
 Alan J. Stone, a university spokesman, said yesterday that the Boston campus has significant momentum and that he does not believe it will be slowed. ''It allows for university growth, it will help the regional economy, it has the support thus far of business and political leaders, and it has excited donors,'' Mr. Stone said.
 But bigger decisions on housing, science buildings, a permanent arts complex and campuses for the Graduate School of Education and School of Public Health have yet to be made.
 Dr. Summers had also been expected to lead a $5 billion fund-raising campaign that is in the planning stages. 
 And Harvard's largest school, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences -- which led the rebellion against Dr. Summers -- may be without a permanent dean this summer, officials said, because Dr. Summers is not expected to pick a successor to the current dean, William C. Kirby. Dean Kirby announced his resignation last month under pressure from Dr. Summers, setting off a chain of events that led to the president's resignation.
 The revision of the undergraduate curriculum, initiated three years ago by Dr. Summers, was delayed last year by the uproar over his remarks that intrinsic aptitude could help explain why fewer women than men reached the highest ranks of science and math in universities.
 Dr. Summers, an economist, had sought a major revision that he hoped would set a standard in American education. But many professors have dismissed the proposal as it has evolved as modest, at best.
 In place of the core curriculum now required, Harvard would require undergraduates to take three courses in each of three broad areas: arts and humanities, the study of societies, and science and technology. The plan would also push back by a semester -- to the middle of sophomore year -- the date by which students must declare a major.
 Dr. Kirby, who will remain as dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences through June 30, still intends to seek approval of the curriculum this semester, said a spokesman, Robert Mitchell. The faculty council decided yesterday that it, too, would like to proceed, Mr. Mitchell said. 
 But some professors question whether, with a lame-duck president and a lame-duck dean, the faculty will approve the plan. ''With the dean leaving, who is going to force agreements?'' said Peter K. Bol, a professor of East Asian languages and civilizations. 
 If uncertainty defined the mood among some on campus, others argued about why Dr. Summers had resigned. Some of his critics insisted that the school's governing corporation, concerned by his eroding support among faculty, pushed him out, despite his assertion that the decision was his own. Other professors said a small faculty cabal had undermined him.
 Critics and supporters of Dr. Summers said the polarization on campus would probably recede. ''I think the repair will be virtually instantaneous,'' said Peter T. Ellison, a professor of anthropology and former dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, who has been sharply critical of Dr. Summers. ''I think the problem has been essentially President Summers himself.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%) 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%) Patrick D Healy; Alan Finder; Lawrence H Summers; Derek C Bok

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



501 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: The Work You Do When You're Not at Work 

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (dynamist.com) is the author of '''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness.''

 BODY:
WHAT would you be doing if you were not at work? Scrubbing the bathroom or watching the Olympics? Fixing the car or playing golf? Darning socks or doing crossword puzzles?
 The easiest way to measure leisure is to take survey data on how many hours a week people spend at work and subtract. Since 1965, the number of hours the average American works for pay has not changed much. By this simple measure, then, leisure has also stayed the same.
But are we really working as much as ever? 
 ''All time away from work is not equal,'' Erik Hurst, an economist at the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago, said in an interview. Some time off is actually just more work.
 To put it in economic terms, we spend some time off the job in consumption (watching TV, hanging out with our friends, reading for pleasure) and some in production (cooking dinner, cleaning the house, doing household repairs). Some activities, like sleeping and eating, fall somewhere in between, while others, including child care and gardening, combine pleasure and production.
 The difference is not just that we enjoy some activities and dislike others. It is that we could, in theory, pay someone else to do the production for us. A cook or a restaurant can make dinner, but nobody else can play golf or watch TV for you.
 That distinction can make a big difference in predicting how, for instance, people will respond to higher wages or lower taxes. Do they have to give up recreation to earn more money? Or are they trading one kind of work for another?
 If they spend their off-hours cooking, Professor Hurst suggested, ''when they get richer, they can buy a microwave or order takeout.''
 That seems to be what has happened over the last few decades. Americans are not, in fact, working as much as they used to. They are just getting paid for more of the work they do. Using several different definitions of leisure, Professor Hurst and Mark A. Aguiar, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, analyzed time-use surveys done from 1965 to 2003. Whether they defined leisure narrowly or broadly, they got a consistent result.
 ''Leisure time -- measured in a variety of ways -- has increased significantly between 1965 and 2003,'' they write in ''Measuring Trends in Leisure: The Allocation of Time Over Five Decades,'' a Boston Fed working paper. (The paper is available at www.bos.frb.org/economic/wp/index.htm.) Using the most restrictive definition, which includes only ''entertainment/social activities/relaxing'' and ''active recreation,'' the economists found that leisure had increased 5.1 hours a week, holding demographics like age constant. (Without that control, leisure has grown 4.6 hours.) Assuming a 40-hour work week, that is like adding six weeks of vacation -- an enormous increase.
 ''I was surprised by the magnitude,'' Mr. Aguiar said in an interview, though the general trend agrees with earlier research.
 The increase in leisure is particularly striking for women. During this period, they entered the paid labor force in large numbers, yet gained just as much leisure as men. The difference is in where the gains came from.
 Ninety-seven percent of men ages 21 to 65 had jobs in 1965, compared with 87 percent in 2003. That drop accounts for about 60 percent of men's increase in leisure time.
 By contrast, Professor Hurst said in the interview, ''for the women, the entire gain in their leisure time is coming from declines in nonmarket work. The time women spend on cooking and cleaning and laundry and other household maintenance has been dramatically declining over the last 40 years.''
 In 2003, women spent 11.1 fewer hours a week working at home than they did in 1965. The biggest drop, 6.2 hours a week, came in cooking and cleaning up after meals -- not surprising, given the enormous growth in restaurant and takeout meals and the spread of microwave ovens.
 More women working outside the home created more demand for such conveniences, which, in turn, enabled more women to work outside the home. By contrast, said Professor Hurst, ''A woman who was working full time in 1965 was also working full time at home, almost -- 40 hours in the market, 20 or 25 hours at home.''
 Like income, the economists found, leisure time has become less equal across the population since 1965. While income has grown faster for highly educated people, leisure time has grown faster for the less educated, in part because some have left the labor force.
 ''Low-educated men used to work a lot,'' said Professor Hurst. ''Now they don't work a lot.'' 
 Some of that new leisure time undoubtedly comes from involuntary unemployment, but, Mr. Aguiar noted in the interview, these men are not spending it doing chores.
 ''If they're the unemployed, I would have expected them to do much more home production to offset the fact that they don't have a salary,'' he said. ''But they're taking a lot of it in leisure.''
 In new research, the economists are looking at how much leisure time people of the same age have had in different periods. This is one early finding: Middle-aged people have a lot more free time than they used to.
 ''The 40-year-olds in 1965 worked a lot, lot more than the 40-year-olds in 2003,'' said Professor Hurst.
 And, of course, one of the biggest increases in leisure time is deliberately missing from the working paper, since it omits retirees. Longer life spans mean more retirement years.
 ''It used to be that you worked till 65, and died at 66. Now you work till 65 and die at 80,'' said Professor Hurst. ''The net increase in leisure is rather large.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%) Labor; Working Hours; Women; Labor

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (81%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%)

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; Erik Hurst; Mark A Aguiar

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



502 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Vice Chairman of the Fed, A Greenspan Ally, Resigns

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
Roger W. Ferguson Jr., whose views on policy matters at the Federal Reserve meshed closely with those of Alan Greenspan, resigned Wednesday as vice chairman of the central bank, less than a month after Mr. Greenspan's departure.
 Mr. Ferguson, 54, had indicated to friends that he would leave the Fed ''to pursue other professional opportunities,'' as he put it in his letter of resignation to President Bush. The surprise was that he left so soon after Ben S. Bernanke replaced Mr. Greenspan on Feb. 1, suggesting that the transition to a new chairman was going smoothly enough for Mr. Ferguson to leave early.
''I think his departure is more a sign of stability and consensus at the Fed than a reflection of disagreement,'' said Edward M. Gramlich, a former Fed governor who left the board in September and is now interim provost at the University of Michigan. 
 Donald L. Kohn, who moved up to the board after years as a top staff economist at the Fed, is widely considered to be the leading candidate to replace Mr. Ferguson as vice chairman, officials say. Mr. Ferguson, a Harvard-trained economist and lawyer, was the last member of the Fed's board of governors appointed by a Democratic president. The board has seven members; the six others are all Bush appointees.
 But partisan politics rarely play an open role in deliberations of the larger policy-making body at the Fed that sets interest rates.
 ''Monetary policy has never been partisan,'' said Mr. Gramlich, a Democrat like Mr. Ferguson. ''Economists of both parties think that if you keep inflation low, you can keep employment high.''
 But political identification played a role in Mr. Ferguson's eight years at the Fed. As a Democrat, he never was a serious candidate to succeed Mr. Greenspan, who in a statement Wednesday called Mr. Ferguson ''one of the most effective vice chairman in the history of the Fed.''
 The Fed's board has been remade in recent years; two new governors were just confirmed by the Senate. 
 ''Investors on Wall Street are going to have to learn a lot about these new faces before they feel comfortable,'' said Richard Berner, chief domestic economist for Morgan Stanley. ''I don't think this means any change in monetary policy but there are new people.'' 
 Interest rate policy is made at periodic meetings in Washington. The Fed's seven governors have permanent seats on the policy-making committee. Five of the 12 presidents of the Fed's regional banks rotate the right to vote every few meetings.
 Mr. Ferguson and Mr. Bernanke have differed mildly on inflation policy and there was speculation among Fed watchers -- none of it on the record -- that their differences might have contributed to Mr. Ferguson's resignation. The vice chairman opposed publicly targeting an inflation rate of, say, 2 percent, a procedure that Mr. Bernanke has strongly favored.
 Mr. Bernanke, however, has softened his approach. Rather than insist on setting a target, he has moved closer to the more informal practice of Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Ferguson. 
 Already, Mr. Berner said, ''the Fed has clearly moved in the direction of de facto inflation targeting.''
 Bill Clinton appointed Mr. Ferguson to the Fed's board in November 1997. With the backing of Mr. Greenspan, Mr. Ferguson was elevated to vice chairman in 1999. 
 Mr. Ferguson earned a bachelor's degree at Harvard in 1973, and then received a law degree in 1979 and a doctorate in economics in 1981 from there as well. After Harvard, he worked as a lawyer at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York; in 1984 he joined the management consulting firm McKinsey & Company, serving as director of research and information systems, among other posts. He stayed at McKinsey until his appointment to the Fed.
 Perhaps his finest hour came in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. He was the only Fed governor in Washington. Mr. Greenspan was in Europe and the primary responsibility at the Fed to help keep the financial system functioning fell to Mr. Ferguson, who moved swiftly to assure bankers and investors that the Fed would provide the necessary lending to keep the economy going. 
 ''Roger was the major policy maker during 9/11,'' Mr. Greenspan said in his statement.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, left, and Roger W. Ferguson Jr. at a Fed meeting in January. Mr. Ferguson was appointed by President Clinton in 1997. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); GOVERNORS (57%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); BILL CLINTON (57%) Roger W Jr Ferguson; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Donald L Kohn; Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



503 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Lieutenant Governor Makes Bid for Mayor Of New Orleans

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
Lt. Gov. Mitch Landrieu formally entered the race for mayor of New Orleans on Wednesday, adding a politically potent name to a foreshortened contest certain to raise the make-or-break issues facing this city. 
 The primary is on April 22, with a possible runoff in May. The stakes and shifting demographics here have made the contest unlike any other in recent memory.
In addition to Mr. Landrieu, two other well-known whites have entered the race, underscoring the possibility that New Orleans could elect a white mayor for the first time in more than 30 years. They are Ron Forman, president of the Audubon Nature Institute, credited with making a financial success of the city's zoo and aquarium, and Peggy Wilson, a Republican former city councilwoman considered a voice for wealthier Uptown residents.
 Mr. Landrieu, son of the last white mayor and brother of Senator Mary L. Landrieu, and Mr. Forman, a favorite of the business class, are considered formidable challengers to the incumbent, C. Ray Nagin, who is widely seen as weakened by a sometimes shaky performance with Hurricane Katrina. Mr. Nagin has one black challenger, a minister, the Rev. Tom Watson. 
 Although Mr. Forman, with his ties to the economic elite, may have a fund-raising edge, Mr. Landrieu is likely to prove a more potent vote getter among blacks, who have long supported his family. 
 Mr. Landrieu thanked Mr. Nagin for being ''a good public servant,'' but drew a pointed contrast between himself and what critics have seen as the mayor's lack of polish. 
 ''Today what we need is leadership that can restore our credibility, nationally and internationally,'' Mr. Landrieu said. ''What we need is a mayor and a leader who can communicate with Congress and the White House.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lt. Gov. Mitch Landrieu
his wife, Cheryl
his son Ben
 and his daughter Emily yesterday at his announcement for mayor of New Orleans. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); HURRICANES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (50%) 

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (79%) Adam Nossiter; Mitchell J (Lt Gov) Landrieu; C Ray Nagin; Ron Forman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



504 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Bush Urges India to Split Civilian-Military Nuclear Plants 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
President Bush pressed India on Wednesday to move more aggressively to separate its civilian and military nuclear programs so that a faltering nuclear agreement between the United States and India might win the approval of a skeptical Congress and America's nuclear-armed allies.
 Mr. Bush plans a five-day trip to India and Pakistan next week. 
The agreement, reached in July 2005 with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, would permit India to buy nuclear fuel and reactor components from the United States and other countries and would allow international inspections of its civilian program. India would also retain its nuclear weapons.
 The problems facing the agreement, however, were urgent enough that R. Nicholas Burns, under secretary of state for political affairs, was scheduled to arrive in New Delhi on Wednesday night to try to work out some solution before Mr. Bush's arrival next week. The deal has been criticized by members of Congress and by factions in India's ruling coalition that distrust Washington's intentions.
 ''This is not an easy decision for India, nor is it an easy decision for the United States, and implementing this agreement will take time and it will take patience for both our countries,'' Mr. Bush said in a speech to the Asia Society at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Washington. 
 ''I'll continue to encourage India to produce a credible, transparent and defensible plan to separate its civilian and military nuclear programs.''
 Mr. Bush also strongly defended the outsourcing of American jobs to India, which he described as the reality of a global economy.
 ''Losing a job is traumatic,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It's difficult. It puts a strain on our families. But rather than respond with protectionist policies, I believe it makes sense to respond with educational policies to make sure that our workers are skilled for the jobs of the 21st century.''
 He added that India's growth -- its middle class is now estimated at 300 million people, greater than the population of the United States -- had opened a vital new market for American goods, from jets to fast food. ''Younger Indians are acquiring a taste for pizza from Domino's,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And Air India ordered 68 planes valued at more than $11 billion from Boeing.''
 But Mr. Bush's trip to India is likely to be dominated by the nuclear agreement and Indian discussions about the difficulty and expense of separating what is now a highly integrated civilian and military nuclear program.
 The United States, for example, would like India to classify most of its nuclear facilities as part of a civilian program, making them open to inspections, and India is certain to resist. 
 The most contentious debate is certain to focus on India's prototype fast-breeder reactor, which is not yet complete. India is adamant that the reactor not be subject to international inspections, saying they would hamper research. But critics of the agreement say that the reactor would be a highly efficient producer of plutonium for nuclear weapons and that they are suspicious of India's intentions.
 Critics also say that a safeguarded civilian nuclear program is meaningless when India has a military nuclear program right alongside it.
 ''If India is allowed to have a nuclear program that is half safeguarded and half not, it will be ridiculed as half-baked and would make a mockery of the I.A.E.A. and of the Nonproliferation Treaty,'' Representative Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said in a statement, referring to the International Atomic Energy Agency. Mr. Markey is a leading opponent in Congress of the nuclear agreement.
 In his speech, Mr. Bush also called on India to lift its caps on foreign investments, lower its tariffs and open its markets to more American agricultural products and goods. ''My attitude is this: If the rules are fair, I believe our companies and our farmers and our entrepreneurs can compete with anybody, anytime, anywhere,'' Mr. Bush said.
 After a two-day stay in India, Mr. Bush is to travel to Pakistan to meet with its president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf. In his speech, Mr. Bush praised Pakistan as an important ally in fighting terrorism but said the country ''still has some distance to travel on the road to democracy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INSPECTIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); AIRLINES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); DISMISSALS (64%) 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (93%) India; Pakistan; India

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006



505 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Makeover at Mohonk 

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
FOR 137 years Mohonk Mountain House, a resort blending rustic simplicity and Victorian-era formality on the outskirts of New Paltz, N.Y., has stood for timeless pleasures. Still run by the same Quaker family that founded it, Mohonk clings to tradition. Rooms are large and comfortable, but devoid of television sets, radios -- even clocks. Jackets are required for men at dinner. On summer Sundays, there is a nondenominational worship service in the Parlor, while every day at 4 p.m., guests gather for tea and cookies in the Lake Lounge.
 Guests are encouraged to get out and explore the remarkable natural setting, snowshoeing along the Shawangunk Ridge in winter or plunging into the bracing waters of Lake Mohonk in summer. Organized activities and entertainment are often highbrow and always wholesome: from square dancing to classical music.
But in the last year, the founding family, the Smileys, have gingerly nudged Mohonk into the 20th century, if not quite the 21st. A new three-story wing, nestled among tall pines, opened in August. It contains a sumptuous new spa, offering eucalyptus-scented steam baths and warm-stone massage as well as that pillar of resort life, an indoor pool. 
 Even more consequential, from the point of view of traditionalists, is a much smaller project, hidden away in a discreet area below the main dining room: the West Lounge, Mohonk's first bar. Since it opened in June, guests have been able, for the first time, to drink alcohol outside the dinner hour. 
 Both additions were carefully debated within the Smiley dynasty and are hardly groundbreaking. But for those who regard Mohonk as a touchstone in an ever-shifting world, they are seismic.
 ''Dealing with change is hard,'' acknowledged Nina Smiley, Mohonk's marketing director. ''Guests love Mohonk just the way it is. The sense of place is really important to us. We wanted people to know that whether they were in the new wing or the old, it's absolutely Mohonk.'' 
 Ms. Smiley, a psychologist by training, is the wife of Albert K. Smiley, Mohonk's president and a great-grandnephew of the twin brothers who founded Mohonk in 1869. He took over the family enterprise in 1990 after doing postdoctoral research in economics at Princeton University and then working as an economist for the Justice Department. 
 PERENNIAL guests and certainly the Smiley family itself see Mohonk as a mind-set, a mission. When Albert Smiley, one of the co-founders, died early in the last century, he was eulogized as a humanitarian and conservationist first, a hotel owner second. 
 Around the turn of the last century, Mohonk was the setting of major conferences on the fate of American Indians and international peace. Private guests were as varied as they were notable, from John D. Rockefeller to Arturo Toscanini to the writer and naturalist John Burroughs. They were drawn by the opportunity to renew the spirit in a corner of the Hudson Valley that felt a world away. And the Smileys kept expanding that world. Through about 100 purchases, Mohonk grew from 280 acres in 1869 to 7,500 acres a century later. In the 1960's, the family set aside more than 5,000 acres as a forever-wild preserve, leaving more than 2,000 acres for the resort.
 The seven-story hotel, with 261 guestrooms and 138 working fireplaces, was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1986. It spreads out with a number of stone and clapboard additions, lending it a castle-like whimsy. Guests today include artists, nature lovers, affluent young families, older couples and the occasional celebrity (Alan Alda was seen there at Thanksgiving). 
 Since the early days, Mohonk's owners have documented the annual return of each species of warbler, the date of the mountain laurel bloom and the daily temperature and acidity of Lake Mohonk. Decades ago, Mohonk's record of changes in the lake helped lay the groundwork for studies on the dangers of acid rain.
 Guests have an unusual sense of ownership. Many have donated rough-hewn benches that dot the trails, their small plaques honoring grandparents or extolling vistas. One, given by the preacher Norman Vincent Peale and his wife, Ruth Stafford Peale, says simply, ''Glory to God.''
 When Nina and Bert Smiley arrived 15 years ago, Mohonk was at a low point. The hotel had been turned over to outside management five years before, for the first time in its history. Business was off, and the buildings needed help. The couple dropped the manager, and along with two dozen family members, they have since tried to inject new life, investing in renovations to shed dowdiness, installing air-conditioning and upgrading the food with more imaginative dishes and high-profile chefs. In 2001, they spent $3 million on a new skating rink in a dramatic open-air pavilion with a 39-foot-tall fireplace at one end. 
 ''The marching orders for the skating pavilion was to make it look like it had been here for 100 years, and the architects got that,'' Mr. Smiley said. 
 The newer changes, although subtle, are more revolutionary. The bar is not only understated, but has almost as many nonalcoholic drinks (called mocktails) on its menu as alcoholic ones. There is a sign at the door admonishing exiting guests that alcohol is not allowed ''beyond this point'' -- just in case they might get it into their heads to sneak a glass of merlot up to a fireplace on the main level. Still, some guests have grumbled that the bar is not in keeping with the spirit of Mohonk, which got a liquor license only in the late 1960's.
 Lila Touhey, a great-grandmother from Slingerlands, N.Y., who makes an annual pilgrimage to Mohonk with three dozen relatives, has misgivings about the bar. ''I don't think it's necessary,'' she said. ''It's a family place, No. 1. I know young people want that, but there are so many other things to do.''
 But other guests had been clamoring for a place to go for a drink for more than a decade, and the majority of the Smiley family (with a few dissenters) agreed that the time had come to embrace the inevitable. ''We've kept it very low-key,'' Ms. Smiley said. ''Mohonk is about options.''
 An aversion to alcohol is an integral part of Mohonk's early history. When Albert and Alfred Smiley, both temperance advocates, purchased the Stokes Tavern on the current site of Mohonk they banned liquor, dancing and card playing. This was a considerable change, since the wanton nature of the 10-room tavern had been notorious. According to ''Mohonk: Its People and Spirit'' by Larry E. Burgess (Purple Mountain Press), when Stokes Tavern guests became drunk and unruly, the owner chained them to trees.
 Over the years, Mohonk's stand on alcohol lightened a bit, even before the hotel started serving it with dinner, a move that was fiercely contested. Mr. Smiley, the present president, remembers what his Uncle Francis used to tell guests years ago when they asked where the bar was. ''He'd say, 'Just knock on any door,' '' he recalled, shaking with laughter.
 The spa wing was less problematic than the lounge, but still debated. It was the first addition to the main hotel building since 1902. It was also expensive, at more than $13 million. ''It's normal to be anxious about a major building project,'' Mr. Smiley said. 
 One could argue, too, that Mohonk's founders did not blaze 85 miles of hiking trails, past lily ponds and lichen-dappled rock formations, so that guests could take a three-mile power walk on a treadmill.
 But years ago Mohonk went from being a summer getaway to a year-round establishment, and vacation habits also changed. While a day or two of rain was tolerated by guests who used to come for ''the season,'' it could prove disastrous for guests on the shorter stays that are more common now.
 ''The founders of Mohonk were real visionaries, and I'd like to think that if they knew Mohonk would be open year-round they would have had an indoor pool,'' Mr. Smiley said.
 So far, the spa is a hit. With a curved wall of windows facing the distant Catskills, the new wing echoes the lines of the dining room at the hotel's other end. In addition to the pool and fitness center, there are 16 treatment rooms, an outdoor mineral pool and a lounge area with a huge stone fireplace.
 The ecologically friendly design would have made the founders proud. The spa has a geothermal heating and cooling system. A ''green roof'' cultivated with native plants cuts summer cooling costs and reduces rain runoff while providing a habitat for birds and butterflies. 
 Business is up, and recent guests gushed about the design, which could be called backwoods-luxe. ''I think it's absolutely incredible,'' said Joan Snyder, a painter whose work was shown in a retrospective at the Jewish Museum last year. ''It's a class act.''
 But even those guests who applaud the changes draw the line at other attributes they hold dear. Marialeonie Vidal of Brooklyn, a human resources associate with the United States Postal Service, has no problem with the bar. But she does not want alcohol trickling to other areas -- especially the Lake Lounge, where guests play Scrabble and read by one of two fireplaces.
 ''It would change the climate of the room,'' she said. ''I wouldn't be able to hear the fireplace crackling because people's voices would drown out the fire. Each crackle is significant to me.''
 Be advised, Mr. and Ms. Smiley.

CONTACT
 THE historic Mohonk Mountain House is at 1000 Mountain Rest Road, New Paltz, N.Y.; 800-772-6646; www.mohonk.com. Rates, for a couple sharing a room, are $389 to $735 a night, before tax and a 15-percent gratuity. 
 The rates include three meals a day, afternoon tea and cookies and most activities.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A LANDMARK UPDATED -- Where starchy tradition reigns, can a touch of hedonism fit in? (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. F1)
THE SPA WING -- To bracing hikes and icy swims, guests can add massage and a dip in a mineral pool, right.
 THE WEST LOUNGE -- For the first time, a place to drink before dinner. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. F8)Map of New York highlighting the location of Mohonk Mountain House

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (78%); RELIGION (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); WINTER SPORTS (69%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (68%); DANCE (68%); WRITERS (67%); NATIVE AMERICANS (62%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%) Hotels and Motels; Spas; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Bars

ORGANIZATION: Mohonk Mountain House (New Paltz, NY)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%) Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



506 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 16224 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Feb. 24 - March 2

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'[TITLE OF SHOW]' Opens Sunday. This New York Musical Theater Festival hit is a satirical musical about several artists racing to finish a musical in three weeks. Apparently, they got it done (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303.

'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Opens Monday. Dead pets, severed limbs, black Irish humor -- Martin McDonagh (''The Pillowman'') is up to his old tricks in this devilish comedy about terrorism and torture (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200.

'DEFIANCE' Opens Tuesday. Set on a Marine Corps base during the 1970's, John Patrick Shanley's new play, his first since ''Doubt,'' revolves around an explosive incident between an African-American marine and a white one. Doug Hughes directs (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, Theater 1, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.

'HEDDA GABLER' Opens Tuesday. Cate Blanchett (''The Aviator'') stars as Ibsen's unhappy heroine, who returns from her honeymoon to discover that her marriage is one big bore. A Sydney Theater Company production (2:25). Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100.

'TRANSATLANTIC LIAISON' Opens Wednesday. A new play about Simone de Beauvoir, concentrating on her affair with the novelist Nelson Algren. Uses details from her published letters and the novel ''The Mandarins'' (1:30). Harold Clurman Theater on Theater Row, 412 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'BERNARDA ALBA' Opens March 6. The Tony winner Phylicia Rashad (''A Raisin in the Sun'') plays another formidable matriarchal figure with an iron will in Lincoln Center Theater's musical version of Lorca's '' House of Bernarda Alba.'' Michael John LaChiusa, who already has one musical to his name this season, ''See What I Wanna See,'' contributes music and lyrics (1:30). Mitzi Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.

'ENTERTAINING MR. SLOANE' Opens March 16. Alec Baldwin stars in Joe Orton's jet-black comedy about a handsome stranger who seduces everyone else onstage (2:00). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300.

'FAMILY SECRETS' Opens March 8. Sherry Glaser plays her entire family in this revival of her 1993 autobiographical solo show about moving from the Bronx to Southern California (1:30). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'GREY GARDENS' Opens March 7. Maybe the biggest question mark of the musical season, this intriguing show is an adaptation of the cult documentary about the eccentric relatives of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis (2:30). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'MEASURE FOR MEASURE' Opens March 5. The resourceful Pearl Theater tries to provide an answer to this problem play (2:30). Theater 80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802.

'MEASURE FOR PLEASURE' Opens March 8. A new play by David Grimm (''Kit Marlowe'') that is part Restoration comedy, part modern sex comedy (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200.

'THE MUSIC TEACHER, A PLAY/OPERA' Opens March 6. This artistic hybrid by Wallace Shawn and his brother, Allen, is a drama about the making of an opera that features -- are you still following? -- operatic flashbacks (1:50). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100.

'RING OF FIRE' Opens March 12. Johnny Cash hits form the backbone of this musical about three couples. So far, it's received surprisingly good buzz. Richard Maltby Jr. directs (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'SIDD' Opens March 15. Herman Hesse's novel ''Siddhartha,'' the musical version (2:15). Dodger Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

Broadway

'BAREFOOT IN THE PARK' For a work that celebrates the liberating force of spontaneity, this revival of Neil Simon's 1963 comedy doesn't have one scene that feels organic, let alone impromptu. Directed by Scott Elliott, and starring Patrick Wilson and a miscast Amanda Peet as newlyweds in Greenwich Village, this ''barefoot'' has the robotic gait of Frankenstein's monster (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York City, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Charles Isherwood)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper this musical tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring Jonathan Pryce and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Eileen Atkins), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Ron Eldard), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'RABBIT HOLE' Thanks to a certain former American president, it has become almost impossible to say that you feel someone else's pain without its sounding like a punch line. Yet the sad, sweet release of David Lindsay-Abaire's wrenching play, about the impact of the death of a small child, lies precisely in the access it allows to the pain of others, in its meticulously mapped empathy. With an emotionally transparent five-member cast led by Cynthia Nixon and Tyne Daly, directed by Daniel Sullivan, this anatomy of grief doesn't so much jerk tears as tap them (2:10). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did on Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Broadway

* 'ABIGAIL'S PARTY' Scott Elliott's thoroughly delectable production of Mike Leigh's 1977 comedy about domestic discord among the British middle classes. Jennifer Jason Leigh leads a superb ensemble cast as a party hostess who wields the gin bottle like a deadly weapon, resulting in an evening of savagely funny chaos (2:15). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'ACTS OF MERCY: PASSION-PLAY' If there is a coherent story to Michael John Garces' ''Acts of Mercy: passion-play,'' it is resolutely kept from the audience. As the efforts of two brothers to reconcile with a dying father progress, it seems possible that viewers are meant to discern the consequences of family trauma from punchy monosyllabic combat and repeated expletives, but their efforts to connect are continually frustrated (2:15). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, west of Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444. (Honor Moore)

* 'ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL' This Theater for a New Audience production inspires a quiet prayer of thanks to the theater gods. Here is that rare Shakespeare production in which there is nary an incompetent, misjudged or ineffective performance in a significant role. Darko Tresnjak and his cast find a way to make the play's troubled romance, between the adoring Helena and the disdaining Bertram, psychologically credible and even touching (2:30). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'CLEAN ALTERNATIVES' Brian Dykstra's improbable comedy details the good fight fought by a businesswoman turned environmental activist taking on a toxin-spreading megacorporation. The play also depicts the moral transformation of a rapacious lawyer into a love-smitten puppy dog. Call it a fairy tale for our time (2:00). 59E59 Theaters , 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'CONFESSIONS OF A MORMON BOY' Steven Fales, a sixth-generation Mormon, describes leaving his family and becoming a gay escort in this fairly conventional, although admittedly compelling, piece of confessional theater (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555. (Jason Zinoman)

'DOG SEES GOD: CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE BLOCKHEAD' The ''Peanuts'' characters grow up, do drugs and have sex in this dark, disposable parody. Good grief (1:30). Century Center for the Performing Arts, 111 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and, on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast. So, while literally and figuratively giving off many good vibes, it adds up to lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'I LOVE YOU BECAUSE' The plot line -- single New Yorkers in search of love -- couldn't be more familiar, but somehow this fluffy, funny musical makes it refreshing, helped along by an engaging six-member cast, with David A. Austin making a particularly hilarious impression. An impressive start for Ryan Cunningham (book and lyrics) and Joshua Salzman (music), both still in their 20's (2:00). Village Theater, 158 Bleecker Street, near Sullivan Street, East Village, (212) 307-4100. (Neil Genzlinger)

'RED LIGHT WINTER' A frank, occasionally graphic story of erotic fixation and the havoc it can wreak on sensitive types. Written and directed by Adam Rapp, the play is both a doomy romantic drama and a morbid comedy about the anxieties of male friendship. Although somewhat contrived, it features a lovely performance by Christopher Denham as a lonely soul starved for intimacy (2:25). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE RIGHT KIND OF PEOPLE' Satire sans teeth by Charles Grodin about internecine warfare within a Fifth Avenue co-op board. Directed by Chris Smith, the show has the embarrassed air of someone who has just been served a choice steak and misplaced his dentures (1:30). Primary Stages, at 59E59, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

* 'THE SEVEN' The wild ride of luckless ol' Oedipus -- accidentally offing Dad, marrying Mom, being dissed by the kids -- gets pimped to the nines in this frisky and funny new riff on the classic story. Written by Will Power and directed by Jo Bonney, the show is a freewheeling adaptation of one of the more static, less revered Greek tragedies, Aeschylus' ''Seven Against Thebes'': a hip-hop musical comedy-tragedy (2:00). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

* 'THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL' Led by Lois Smith in a heart-wrenching performance, the cast never strikes a false note in Harris Yulin's beautifully mounted revival of Horton Foote's drama, finding an emotional authenticity in a work largely remembered as a tear-jerking chestnut. This is not to say you should neglect to bring handkerchiefs (1:50). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. (Brantley)

Off Off Broadway

'BACK OF THE THROAT' An Arab-American playwright (Yussef El Guindi) addressing the harassment of Arab-Americans after 9/11? Interesting. But the play would have been even more interesting if the harassers were something other than cardboard characters out of the J. Edgar Hoover closet (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. (Genzlinger)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:10). Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Phoebe Hoban)

* 'ZOMBOID! (FILM/PERFORMANCe PROJECT #1)' O, the heresy of it! Richard Foreman has introduced film into the realm of exquisitely artificial, abstract theater in which he has specialized for four decades. As it turns out, juxtaposing two art forms allows Mr. Foreman to underscore in resonant new ways what he has been saying for years: reality is, well, relative. And he continues to work in a style guaranteed to infect your perceptions for hours after (1:15). Ontological-Hysteric Theater, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'DECEMBER FOOLS' Sherman Yellen takes a stab at the letters-in-a-drawer play (old letters are discovered, and lives are changed), and things get off to a promising start: a New York matron's disgruntled daughter finds some of Mom's old screeds and turns them into weapons. But the play is too long, and some dandy comedy is undercut by some tired melodrama (2:15). Abington Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 868-4444; closing Sunday. ( Genzlinger)

'INFERTILITY' A harmless, insubstantial and highly amplified musical about the struggles of five people hoping to become parents (1:20). Dillon's, 245 West 54th Street, (212) 868-4444; closing Saturday. (Zinoman)

'JUMP/CUT' Neena Beber's play about an aspiring filmmaker's effort to document his best friend's illness limns despair while leaving the audience exhilarated -- by the fierce beauty of Ms. Beber's writing, and by a captivating performance by Luke Kirby as the brilliant, charismatic, darkly funny manic-depressive whose inescapable fate is the central mystery of the work (2:10). Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton; closing Sunday. (212) 239-6200. (Miriam Horn)

* 'LENNY BRUCE IN HIS OWN WORDS' Jason Fisher does an impressive facsimile of this legendary comic in a nostalgic greatest-hits collection of his stand-up routines (1:10). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200; closing tomorrow. (Zinoman)

'LENNY & LOU' This black comedy by Ian Cohen about two brothers and their foul-mouthed, demented mother has the right ingredients for shock theater: four-letter words, sex talk, sex acts. But it somehow doesn't shock (2:15). 29th Street Rep, 212 West 29th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444; closing Sunday.(Genzlinger)

* 'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' Lean, mean and about as deep as a shot glass, Diane the Hollywood agent is just the tonic New York theatergoers need in the depths of an urban winter. Played by Julie White in an irresistible adrenaline rush of a performance, Diane is the archmanipulator in Douglas Carter Beane's tangy fable of fame and its discontents, directed by Scott Ellis. With Neal Huff as a closeted Hollywood star, and Johnny Galecki as the rent boy who loves him (2:10). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422; closing Sunday. (Brantley)

'PARADISE' A mostly articulate drama by David Foley about an inarticulate young man who may have found Mr. Right or the tipping point that leads him into madness (1:30). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, north of White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 868-4444; closing Sunday. ( Zinoman)

'REAL BLACK MEN DON'T SIT CROSS-LEGGED ON THE FLOOR' The poet and playwright Malik's series of quick, interwoven scenes tracing the lives of African-American men in America, mainly in the last half century, can pack an emotional punch, but it works better as a showcase for some outstanding performances by its eight-member cast than it does as a theater piece (2:00). New Federal Theater, Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 279-4200; closing Sunday. (Andrea Stevens)

'RFK' This solo show written and starring Jack Holmes is a reasonably accurate historical portrait, but the performance, unfortunately, lacks the charisma and charm that made the real Bobby Kennedy a star (1:35). Culture Project @ 45 Bleecker, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 253-9983; closing Sunday. (Jonathan Kalb)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'BATTLE IN HEAVEN' (No rating, 94 minutes, in Spanish) An alternatingly mesmerizing and off-putting story about sex, class, God, soccer, an ugly man, a beautiful woman, a dead baby, the dirt below them and the wide sky above. The talented Mexican director Carlos Reygadas (''Japon'') strives to say something about his country, to tap into the spiritual and material desperation of its people, but doesn't seem especially committed to his material. (Manohla Dargis)

'BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE 2' (PG-13, 98 minutes) Martin Lawrence is back in fat-lady drag in this inconsequential sequel for undemanding moviegoers. Mr. Lawrence makes the most of the incongruity of a manly F.B.I. agent posing as a nanny in floral-print dresses, but the humor doesn't go much beyond oversize underwear and a tequila-drinking dog. (Anita Gates)

* 'BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN' (R, 134 minutes) Annie Proulx's heartbreaking story of two ranch hands who fall in love while herding sheep in 1963 has been faithfully translated onto the screen in Ang Lee's landmark film. Heath Ledger (in a great performance worthy of Brando at his peak) and Jake Gyllenhaal bring them fully alive. (Stephen Holden)

* 'CACHE (HIDDEN)' (R, 121 minutes, in French) Michael Haneke, one of the most elegantly sadistic European directors working today, deposits his audience at the intersection of voyeurism and paranoia in this tense, politically tinged psychological thriller about vengeance and injustice. Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil are in top form as an affluent Parisian couple menaced by mysterious drawings and videotapes. (A. O. Scott)

* 'CURIOUS GEORGE' (G, 90 minutes) In a refreshing departure from the animal heroes of most recent children's movies, this Curious George doesn't rap, punch out bad guys or emit rapid-fire commentary on pop culture. George is all monkey -- a quality that will not only appeal to children, but also come as a great relief to parents who grew up with the classic stories by Margret and H. A. Rey. With top-drawer voice talent, including Will Ferrell, Drew Barrymore and Dick Van Dyke; original songs by Jack Johnson; and old-fashioned two-dimensional animation, ''Curious George'' is an unexpected delight. (Dana Stevens)

'DESERT WIND' (No rating, 80 minutes, in French) In March 2004, the Swiss documentary maker Francois Kohler took 13 men -- Canadian, French, Swiss and Belgian -- on a two-week trek in the Tunisian Sahara. The group was accompanied by a Swiss psychotherapist, as well as by a team of Tunisian guides with pack camels. The purpose of the trip: to stage a kind of men's encounter group in the desert, encouraging the participants to break away from received notions of masculinity and to talk about their desires, anxieties and deepest fears. Though it generates its share of unintentional giggles, ''Desert Wind'' does manage to take us to a seldom-visited place: the hidden corners of the straight male mind. (Stevens)

'FINAL DESTINATION 3' (R, 92 minutes) It's more dead teenagers and lunatic determinism in this grim third installment of the enjoyably preposterous ''Final Destination'' franchise. (Nathan Lee)

'FIREWALL' (PG-13, 100 minutes) A thrill-challenged thriller starring Harrison Ford and directed by Richard Loncraine that manages to entertain mildly only because it traffics in all the familiar action-movie cliches, giving filmgoers ample opportunity to test their action-movie I.Q.'s. (Dargis)

'FREEDOMLAND' (R, 113 minutes) This inept, lethally dull drama directed by Joe Roth and written by Richard Price, from his novel, involves a white child who may have gone missing in a New Jersey public housing complex, where the residents are all black. A loud Samuel L. Jackson and a miscast Julianne Moore star. (Dargis)

'GLORY ROAD' (PG, 109 minutes) The true story, more or less, of the 1966 Texas Western College basketball team -- the first all-black starting five to play in an N.C.A.A. final. By the numbers, but inspiring all the same. (Scott)

* 'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK.' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism. (Scott)

* 'HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE' (PG-13, 150 minutes) Childhood ends for the young wizard with the zigzag scar in the latest addition to the Potter saga, even as the director Mike Newell keeps its British eccentricity, fatalism and steady-on pluck irresistibly intact. (Dargis)

* 'LOVE' (No rating, 93 minutes) Cool, mysterious and defiantly foreign, ''Love'' plays out on the immigrant fringes of an indifferent New York City. A Yugoslavian hit man, his German ex-wife and her cop boyfriend form a love triangle that propels a cosmopolitan cast into a violent game of cat and mouse. In these bleak, isolated neighborhoods, exquisitely shot by the Serbian cinematographer Vladimir Subotic, love and politics are inseparable and the gleam of Manhattan is a million miles away. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'MANDERLAY' (R, 138 minutes) To warm to ''Manderlay,'' the chilly second installment of the Danish filmmaker Lars von Trier's yet-to-be-completed three-part Brechtian allegory examining American history, you must be willing to tolerate the derision and moral arrogance of a snide European intellectual thumbing his nose at American barbarism. Those willing to endure his scorn are in for a bracing satire of the legacy of slavery in the United States. (Holden)

* 'MATCH POINT' (R, 124 minutes) Woody Allen's best in years, and one of his best ever. Beneath the dazzling, sexy surface, this tale of social climbing in London (brilliantly acted by Jonathan Rhys-Meyers, Scarlett Johansson and Emily Mortimer) is ice cold and pitch black, which curiously enough makes it a superior diversion. (Scott)

'THE MATADOR' (R, 96 minutes) Pithy remarks put into the mouth of a star (Pierce Brosnan) playing against type impart a greasy sheen of sophistication to this weightless, amoral romp about a professional hit man facing a midlife crisis. (Holden)

'MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA' (PG-13, 144 minutes) Think ''As the Geisha Turns,'' with devious rivals, swoonworthy swains, a jaw-dropping dance number recycled from Madonna's Drowned World tour and much clinching, panting and scheming. Directed by Rob Marshall from the Arthur Golden book, and starring Ziyi Zhang, Gong Li and Michelle Yeoh. (Dargis)

* 'MUNICH' (R, 164 minutes) With his latest, Steven Spielberg forgoes the emotional bullying and pop thrills that come so easily to him to tell the story of a campaign of vengeance that Israel purportedly brought against Palestinian terrorists in the wake of the 1972 Olympics. An unsparingly brutal look at two peoples all but drowning in a sea of their own blood, ''Munich'' is by far the toughest film of the director's career, and the most anguished. (Dargis)

'NANNY McPHEE' (PG, 99 minutes) In the endearing but somewhat scatterbrained British film ''Nanny McPhee,'' Emma Thompson creates an indelible character reminiscent of the pre-Disney Mary Poppins working benign magic to shape up an unruly brood of children. (Holden)

'PINK PANTHER' (PG, 92 minutes) Steve Martin steps into the shoes of Peter Sellers in this intermittently witty revival of a vintage comedy franchise. Though finely honed, Mr. Martin's portrayal of the idiotic French police inspector Jacques Clouseau can't match Sellers's viscerally funny one. (Holden)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

'ROVING MARS' (G, 40 minutes) Mars. IMAX. If you want to grow up to be an astronaut, prepare to bliss out. (Lee)

* 'SOPHIE SCHOLL: THE FINAL DAYS' (No rating, 117 minutes, in German) The gripping true story of Sophie Scholl, an anti-Nazi student activist arrested and executed for distributing leaflets at Munich University, challenges you to gauge your own courage and strength of character should you find yourself in similar circumstances. (Holden)

* 'SYRIANA' (R, 122 minutes) Ambitious, angry and complicated, Stephen Gaghan's second film tackles terrorism, American foreign policy, global trade and the oil business through four interwoven stories. There are at least a half-dozen first-rate performances, and Mr. Gaghan, who wrote and directed, reinvents the political thriller as a vehicle for serious engagement with the state of the world. (Scott)

'TAMARA' (R, 98 minutes) Low in budget as well as ambition, this ''Carrie'' knockoff is a movie of few innovations but one genuine surprise: the inability of the title character, an evil sorceress, to manage in high heels. (Lee)

'TRANSAMERICA' (R, 103 minutes) Felicity Huffman's performance as a preoperative transsexual on a cross-country journey with her long-lost son is sensitive and convincing, and helps the movie rise above its indie road-picture cliches. (Scott)

* 'TRISTRAM SHANDY: A COCK AND BULL STORY' (R, 91 minutes) Michael Winterbottom both confirms and refutes the assumption that Laurence Sterne's 18th-century masterpiece of digression could never be made into a movie by making a movie about the making of such a movie. Steve Coogan is wonderful as Tristram, Tristram's father and himself, though Rob Brydon steals more than a few of Mr. Coogan's scenes. (Scott)

'UNDERWORLD: EVOLUTION' (R, 106 minutes) In this sequel to ''Underworld'' (2003), the writer and director Len Wiseman and the writer Danny McBride pick up the story of the vampire Selene (Kate Beckinsale) and the vampire/werewolf hybrid Michael (Scott Speedman) as they race to prevent the release of an imprisoned uber-werewolf. With leads who strain to manage one facial expression between them, and a cinematographer who shoots everything through the same steel-blue filter, ''Underworld: Evolution'' is little more than a monotonous barrage of computer-generated fur and fangs. (Catsoulis)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon, who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

'A YEAR WITHOUT LOVE' (No rating, 95 minutes, in Spanish) Anahi Berneri's debut film recounts in uncomfortable close-up the day-to-day activities of a youngish gay writer from Buenos Aires afflicted with AIDS, who becomes involved in S-and-M. Based on the diaries of the real Pablo Perez (he is also co-writer of the script), the film reveals rare insight into the endurance and treatment of illness, but is never fully arresting. (Laura Kern)

* 'NEIL YOUNG: HEART OF GOLD' (PG, 103 minutes) Filled with country memories, bluesy regret and familiar and piercing sentiment, Jonathan Demme's concert film sounds like quintessential Neil Young, which, depending on your home catalog, will be either an enormous turn-on or turnoff. (Dargis)

Film Series

DOCUMENTARY FORTNIGHT EXPANDED (Through March 13) The Museum of Modern Art's exhibition of contemporary nonfiction films runs five weeks this year. This weekend's films include Paul Rosdy's "New World" (2005), about what was once the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and Karen Kramer's "Ballad of Greenwich Village" (2005), an affectionate profile of a neighborhood. 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

FASSBINDER (Through Sunday) IFC Center's Weekend Classics Program honoring Rainer Werner Fassbinder (1946-82) concludes this weekend with ''Fox and His Friends'' (1975), starring Fassbinder himself as a man who wins the lottery. 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, (212) 924-7771; $10.75. (Gates)

THE GARMENT INDUSTRY IN FILM (Through Wednesday) The Yeshiva University Museum honors Seventh Avenue. Tuesday night's feature is ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale'' (1951), Michael Gordon's Hollywoodization of Jerome Weidman's Seventh Avenue expose. Wednesday's is ''Unzipped'' (1995), Douglas Keeve's documentary about the fashion designer Isaac Mizrahi, to be shown with ''A Good Uplift,'' a 2002 short about an Orchard Street lingerie shop. 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district, (917) 606-8200; $10. (Gates)

ISRAEL FILM FESTIVAL (Through March 9) More than 40 films will be screened, many of them American premieres, at this 21st annual event. This weekend's films include Daniel Syrkin's ''Out of Sight'' (2005), about a blind woman investigating her best friend's suicide; Haim Bouzaglo's ''Janem, Janem'' (2005), about a 40-year-old schoolteacher's underground midlife crisis; and ''Metallic Blues'' (2004), Danny Verete's road picture about two used-car dealers driving a Lincoln limousine to Germany. Clearview Cinema, 62nd Street and Broadway, (877) 966-5566; $10. (Gates)

JOSEPHINE BAKER ON FILM (Through Sunday) The Museum of the Moving Image celebrates Baker's centennial with a 10-day retrospective of her films. This weekend's features include Marc Allegret's ''Zouzou'' (1934), the story of a poor girl who wants to be a star; ''Siren of the Tropics'' (1927), Baker's first starring role, as a stowaway on an ocean liner; and ''Princess Tam Tam'' (1935), a ''Pygmalion''-style comedy about a shepherdess. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Gates)

MAN IN THE DUNES: DISCOVERING HIROSHI TESHIGAHARA (Through March 19) BAMcinematek's tribute to Teshigahara (1927-2001), the artist, filmmaker and master flower arranger, begins today with a weeklong run of ''Antonio Gaudi'' (1984), his documentary about the architect of the Sagrada Familia in Barcelona. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

RICHARD PRYOR TRIBUTE (Through Sunday) The Museum of the Moving Image is honoring Pryor (1940-2005) this weekend. ''Which Way Is Up?'' (1977), Michael Schultz's adaptation of ''The Seduction of Mimi,'' will be shown tomorrow night, with a personal appearance by Lonette McKee, Mr. Pryor's co-star in the film. On Sunday night, the comedian and writer Paul Mooney will present highlights from ''The Richard Pryor Show'' (1977, NBC), Mr. Pryor's very short-lived television series. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $12. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

AKIM FUNK BUDDHA (Tuesday) The American-born, Zimbabwe-raised Akim Ndlovu, who performs as Akim Funk Buddha, creates theatrical mash-ups involving dance, poetry, music and storytelling. 8 p.m., Tribal Soundz, 340 East Sixth Street, East Village, (212) 673-5992; free. (Laura Sinagra)

BELLE & SEBASTIAN, THE NEW PORNOGRAPHERS (Thursday) The deceptively gentle Scottish rock of Belle and Sebastian continues to find the exquisite balance between loll and lash. The New Pornographers are a revved-up Vancouver outfit whose smart constructions and tight power-pop grandeur builds with a sort of time-release tension, until Neko Case's voice cuts through like a triumphant skywriter. 8:30 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $30 (sold out). (Sinagra)

BRAZILIAN GIRLS (Thursday) Boasting zero members from Brazil and only one girl (the multilingual surrealist jazz singer Sabina Sciubba), this downtown quartet plays its erotic, electronica-inflected reggae and bossa novas on keyboards, computers, bass and drums. 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; $20.. (Sinagra)

GEORGE CLINTON & THE P-FUNK ALLSTARS (Tuesday) George Clinton's long-running band has become an American institution, using funk to subvert and outflank any Puritan reflexes. The band is large enough to be a party all on its own, with ranks of guitarists, singers, horn players and keyboardists to pump out songs that encompass decades of American musical history. As P-Funk's leisurely jams amble from bubbling-mud funk to slow-grinding blues-rock to bits of doo-wop, jazz and hip-hop, the music is tight and loose at the same time. 8 p.m., B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, $37.50; $42 at the door. (Jon Pareles)

LUIS DIAS AND LAS MARAVILLAS, LOS ROBA CORAZONES (Monday) This show celebrating Dominican Independence Day features Luis Dias and his band playing merengue, bachata, and congos fused with jazz and rock. The bachata group Los Roba Corazones also plays. 8 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940; free. (Sinagra)

DONALD FAGEN (Wednesday) Steely Dan's jaded-jazz rocker Donald Fagen tours in support of his first solo record since 1993, ''Morph the Cat'' (Reprise), on which, among other things, he focuses his recognizable leer on a hot airport security babe. 8 p.m., State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick, N.J., (732) 246-7469; $45 to $65. (Sinagra)

FLOOK, KARAN CASEY BAND (Tonight) This Irish music bill begins with the traditional Celtic stylings of Flook, a band featuring flute, bodhran, accordion, guitar and bouzouki. The second section presents the vocalist Karan Casey. 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $26; 12 and under, $22; students, $15. (Sinagra)

HOWE GELB (Tomorrow) Howe Gelb, the songwriter at the core of Giant Sand, applies his scratchy voice to songs that can sound quiet and offhand or go lurching and twanging toward chaos. 8 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236; $12 . (Pareles)

JOHN HAMMOND (Thursday) The rural blues tradition of polyrhythmic fingerpicking and casually revealing vocals is being upheld by revivalists like John Hammond, who has been playing country blues since the 1960's . He's a virtuoso whose songs, mostly classic blues, are feats of down-home intricacy. 8 p.m., Makor, 35 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 601-1000; $18 in advance, $22 at the door. (Pareles)

SARAH HARMER (Wednesday) In the tradition of emotionally astute Canadian singer-songwriters, Sarah Harmer applies her sharp voice to bluegrass-tinged pop and wistful folk. 8 p.m., Canal Room, 285 West Broadway, at Canal Street, SoHo, (212) 941-8100; $15 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sinagra)

HOWLIN' FOR HUBERT (Tomorrow) The blues guitarist Hubert Sumlin's electric guitar style, evidenced on Howlin' Wolf classics like ''Killing Floor,'' influenced pretty much every classic rock heavyweight from Clapton to Zappa. Here he plays with the New York Dolls frontman David Johansen and the former Band drummer Levon Helm. 8 p.m., B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $30. (Sinagra)

BILLY JOEL (Tomorrow, Monday, and Thursday) Last year, the iconic piano man released a boxed set celebrating four decades of his music. From ''Just the Way You Are'' to ''Allentown,'' it's the trademark mix of real, if prickly, confidence and false bravado in both his playing and his delivery that keeps him compelling. 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $54 to $89.50. (Sinagra)

TED LEO & THE PHARMACISTS (Thursday) The Irish-American indie rocker Ted Leo plays soulful punk, nearly popping a neck vein for political justice. But his melodic sensibility and sudden falsetto also recall the melodic 1970's arena-rock of bands like Thin Lizzy. 8:30 p.m., the Hook, 18 Commerce Street, near Columbia Street, Red Hook, Brooklyn, (718) 797-3007; $15 (sold out). (Sinagra)

TANIA LIBERTAD (Tomorrow) This Peruvian singer, who has made Mexico her home for 20 years, specializes in boleros but incorporates other Latin American styles as well. 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824 or (212) 545-7536; $25 to $40. (Sinagra)

VUSI MAHLASELA (Thursday) Vusi Mahlasela was one of the most important songwriters of the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa, not just for his political courage but also for his sterling voice and for three-chord rockers that make earnest sentiments bounce. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $15 in advance, $18 at the door. (Pareles)

PAPOOSE, DJ PREMIER, SADAT X (Tonight) The Brooklyn rapper Papoose, a traditionally minded lyricist and keeper of the battle rhyme flame, has been doing the mixtape thing for a while now, but has been getting more attention lately. He is joined here by the New York rap stalwarts DJ Premiere and Sadat X. 9, Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236; $17 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sinagra)

ARIEL PINK (Tonight) With a mind like a radio antenna, this California home-recording maven has made hundreds of bedroom-rock creations melding snippets of half-remembered strains into an often charming clamor. On this tour, he's using local bands in each city as his backup crew. Here it will be the noise-rock band Excepter. 8, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, between Broadway and Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sinagra)

RAKIM, SAIGON (Monday) One of hip-hop's most commanding MC's, Rakim did his best work with DJ Eric B. in the late 1980's and early 90's, but his cool, confident flow is still one to beat. The socially conscientious rapper Saigon has gotten a push by playing himself on the television show ''Entourage.'' 8 p.m., B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $35. (Sinagra)

PONCHO SANCHEZ (Thursday through March 5) The conga player Poncho Sanchez plays a funky brand of salsa. 8 p.m., and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592; $20 at the bar, $35 at tables. (Sinagra)

STEVE RILEY AND THE MAMOU PLAYBOYS (Tonight) The accordionist Steve Riley leads one of the best bands from the Louisiana bayous. It reaches back to some of the oldest Cajun tunes while adding its own to the repertory, in arrangements that find gleaming new combinations of fiddle, triangle and guitar. The songs, with bayou stubbornness, are in Cajun French. 7:30, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village; (212) 239-6200; $20. (Pareles)

RJD2, ACEYALONE, BUSDRIVER (Sunday) Representing an offshoot of the crate-digging DJ tradition exemplified in the 1990's by the likes of DJ Shadow, RJD2 takes a cinematic approach. He has produced the soulful, dramatic ''Magnificent City'' (Project Blowed/Decon) for the rapper Aceyalone, who applies his sonorous voice to, among other things, the subject of greed. 7 p.m., Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-7780; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sinagra)

SPANISH HARLEM ORCHESTRA (Tonight through Sunday) Anyone who's heard a salsa band in New York City has probably seen some of the members of the Spanish Harlem Orchestra, which recaptures the golden age of 1970's salsa. This full-length club engagement should give these virtuosos a chance to dig deep into the music. 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592; $20 at the bar, $30 at tables. (Pareles)

STARS (Tomorrow) The Canadian band the Stars' achingly pretty boy-girl vocal pop makes a dreamy soundtrack for a quarter-life crisis. 6:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, East Village, (917) 577-2499; $20 in advance, $23 at the door (sold out). (Sinagra)

THE STARTING LINE (Tomorrow) This Pennsylvania emo band's 2002 debut was called ''Say It Like You Mean It,'' and the vocalist Kenny Vasoli does, be his sentiments vacuous, boilerplate or downright skeevy. 6:30 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $20 (sold out). (Sinagra)

THE STROKES (Wednesday) Six years ago, with its exaggerated Tom Petty jitters and rich hipster slumming, this band convinced fatigued late-1990's clubbers that rock was back. Lately the members are having trouble convincing anyone of anything, but their best songs still make for a fun show. 6:30 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, (212) 485-1534; $35 in advance, $37 at the door. (Sinagra)

TEST ICICLES (Wednesday and Thursday) This noisy British band plays a more metallic and sometimes happily melodic version of garage rock. Wednesday at 8 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. Thursday at 10:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sinagra)

TRIO CON CUATRO (Tomorrow) Led by the singer and cuarto player Roberto Fuentes, Trio Con Cuarto mixes the llanera cowboy music of southern Venezuela with Cuban and Mexican styles. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; $8 suggested donation. (Sinagra)

GLEN VELEZ AND LORI COTLER (Wednesday) The frame drummers and singers Glen Velez and Lori Cotler perform poetic compositions that explore the rhythmic power of the voice and the melodic potential of the drum. 8 p.m., Leonard Nimoy Thalia at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $25. (Sinagra)

THE YEAH YEAH YEAH'S (Tonight and tomorrow night) The fashion-forward singer Karen O and her post-punk Yeah Yeah Yeahs' new material moves further away from the precision noise-rock of their past and spotlights more singing than forceful declaration. 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $20 (sold out). (Sinagra)

ZAGNUT CIRKUS ORKESTAR (Tuesday) The accordionist Matthew Fass leads this six-piece Balkan brass band in music combining Greek, Turkish, Middle Eastern and Roma styles, as well as jazz. 9 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; $8 suggested donation. (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $55, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)

BABY JANE DEXTER (Tomorrow) This booming pop-blues contralto may not be demure, but she is tasteful in a smart, regal, big-mama way, and she is astute in her choices of often obscure soul, blues and jazz songs that play to her contradictory mixture of the lusty and the philosophical. 7 p.m., Helen's, 169 Eighth Avenue, near 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-0609; cover, $20, with a $15 minimum. (Holden)

UTE LEMPER (Tonight and tomorrow night) This cabaret diva, who sings a mostly pan-European, heavily Germanic program reminds us that cabaret can be dangerous (but not hazardous to her health) when infused with politics. 8:45 and 10:45, Cafe Carlyle, at the Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $85. (Holden)

LYRICS AND LYRICISTS (Tomorrow, Sunday and Monday) A tribute to the cabaret legend Mabel Mercer, with Jeff Harnar, Valerie Lemon, Craig Rubano, K T Sullivan and Lumiri Tubo. Expect the work of Cole Porter, Cy Coleman and Bart Howard to be well represented. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 and 8 p.m., and Monday at 2 and 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $45 and $55. (Holden)

MAUDE MAGGART (Tonight and tomorrow night) In her show of love songs, most from the 1940's, this bewitching, eerie-voiced nostalgist evokes a film-noir bad girl with a romantic heart. 9 and 11:30, Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $50; $50 prix fixe dinner at the early shows, $20 minimum at the late shows. (Holden)

FAITH PRINCE AND TOM WOPAT (Tonight and tomorrow night) Two talented performers team in a disastrous vocal mismatch. 8:30 and 11, Feinstein's at the Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, Manhattan, (212) 339-4095; cover, $60, with a $40 minimum. (Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Tomorrow) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 7 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

TOM ABBS & FREQUENCY RESPONSE (Tonight) Mr. Abbs is an avant-gardist whose personal arsenal includes the tuba, bass, flute and cello; with his latest effort, ''The Animated Adventures of Knox'' (482 Music), he also takes a crack at experimental filmmaking. Tonight his film has its New York premiere, with live accompaniment by a sextet that includes the multireedist Oscar Noriega, the violinist Jean Cook and the drummer Chad Taylor. 8, Studio 65, 65 West Broadway, between Warren and Murray Streets, TriBeCa; cover, $10. (Nate Chinen)

RALPH ALESSI QUINTET (Tomorrow) As a trumpeter, Mr. Alessi combines pristine technique with an exploratory yen; his quintet includes frequent collaborators like the tenor saxophonist Ravi Coltrane, the pianist Andy Milne and the bassist Drew Gress. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

MICHAEL BLAKE'S FREE ASSOCIATION (Sunday) Mr. Blake, a resourceful tenor and soprano saxophonist, pursues an exuberant variety of collective improvisation with the slide trumpeter Steven Bernstein, the bassist Ben Allison and the drummer Kresten Osgood. 9:30 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $8. (Chinen)

* CACHAO (Tuesday and Wednesday) In the 1940's, Israel Lopez, known as Cachao, helped define modern Cuban music, especially with respect to the bass; now in his 80's, he has wisdom to match his panache, as he'll demonstrate here with a 10-piece band. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $45 at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

CYRUS CHESTNUT QUINTET (Tuesday through March 5) Mr. Chestnut is a stalwart, straight-ahead pianist, especially when it comes to gospel and the blues; as on his strong new album, ''Genuine Chestnut'' (Telarc), he features the guitarist Mark Whitfield as a guest. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11 p.m. set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

KRIS DAVIS QUARTET (Wednesday) Ms. Davis is among the more promising young pianists and composers to have arrived in the last few years. Here she will lead a group consisting of the same musicians as on her new album, ''The Slightest Shift'' (Fresh Sound/New Talent): Tony Malaby on tenor saxophone, Eivind Opsvik on bass and Jeff Davis on drums. 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

ERGO (Tomorrow) The trombonist Brett Sroka, the keyboardist Carl Maguire and the drummer Damion Reid compose this atmospheric collective, which takes full advantage of electronic programming and cross-genre appropriation. 9 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

EVERGREENS: MUSIC OF CEDAR WALTON (Through Sunday) Eric Reed, a crisp and engaging pianist, leads a tribute to the music of Cedar Walton with an ensemble featuring Terell Stafford on trumpet, Wycliffe Gordon on trombone and Stefon Harris on vibraphone. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11 o'clock set tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

BEN GOLDBERG (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Goldberg, a clarinetist best known for his work in the eclectic improv-chamber group Tin Hat, has an engaging new solo album, ''The Door, the Hat, the Chair, the Fact'' (Cryptogramophone); he celebrates its release by performing in four ensembles over two nights, with a cast of collaborators that includes the cellist Erik Friedlander and the bassist Trevor Dunn. 8 and 10, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* FRED HERSCH (Tuesday through March 5) Mr. Hersch's solo piano recitals are transcendent affairs, as evidenced most recently by an excellent album called ''Fred Hersch in Amsterdam: Live at the Bimhuis'' (Palmetto). Next week he becomes the first solo pianist ever to headline a weeklong Village Vanguard engagement. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

VIJAY IYER QUARTET (Tonight through Sunday) A pianist and composer given to restive energies and rhythmic conundrums, Mr. Iyer leads an exceptionally intuitive working band, with the alto saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthappa, the bassist Stephan Crump and the drummer Marcus Gilmore. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $25 to $30. (Chinen)

JAVON JACKSON QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Jackson tips his hat to one of his tenor saxophone forebears, Dexter Gordon, with the pianist George Cables and the bassist Rufus Reid -- partners in Gordon's final working band -- and the venerable drummer Jimmy Cobb. 9 and 11, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

LOS ANGELES: CENTRAL AVENUE BREAKDOWN (Tonight and tomorrow night) Continuing its salute to American jazz cities, the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra toasts the midcentury heyday of the Los Angeles scene; few living musicians can recall that milieu better than the arranger Gerald Wilson and the saxophonist Plas Johnson, who are both featured here. 8, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, www.jalc.org; $35 to $135. (Chinen)

STEVE NELSON QUINTET (Wednesday through March 5) Mr. Nelson, a thoughtfully exploratory vibraphonist, assembles several of his postbop peers: the alto saxophonist Donald Harrison, the pianist Mulgrew Miller, the bassist Robert Hurst and the drummer Carl Allen. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set Fridays and Saturdays, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $25 to $30. (Chinen)

MILES OKAZAKI QUINTET (Thursday) Mr. Okazaki is a confident and well-traveled guitarist and composer; his working band includes David Binney on alto saxophone and Dan Weiss on drums. 7 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 929-9883; no cover. (Chinen)

JEREMY PELT QUINTET (Through Sunday) The clarion tone and preternatural poise of Mr. Pelt's trumpet playing have earmarked him as a rising star in the jazz mainstream. The personnel here are the same as on his most recent album, ''Identity'' (MaxJazz): the pianist Frank LoCrasto, the bassist Vicente Archer and the drummer Eric McPherson. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ANGELICA SANCHEZ TRIO (Tomorrow) In her piano playing as well as in her compositions, Ms. Sanchez seeks out the lyrical heartbeat within any avant-garde storm; she has ideal partners in the bassist Mark Helias and the drummer Tom Rainey. 9 p.m., Night and Day, 230 Fifth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope, (718) 399-2161; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JALEEL SHAW QUARTET (Tonight) Mr. Shaw is an alto saxophonist with a progressive take on bebop, and he has a way of assembling sharp-honed rhythm sections; this one features Danny Grissett on piano, Derrick Hodge on bass and Johnathan Blake on drums. 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

TODD SICKAFOOSE GROUP (Tuesday) Mr. Sickafoose is a bassist and composer equally fond of rough edges and rounded forms; as on his evocative new album, ''Blood Orange'' (Secret Hatch), he showcases his atmospheric compositions in an improvising chamber ensemble that includes Alan Ferber on trombone and Ches Smith on drums. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

SPANISH HARLEM ORCHESTRA (Through Sunday) Spit-and-polish salsa from a cadre of spirited players, led by the highly regarded pianist Oscar Hernandez. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $30 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

LEW TABACKIN TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Tabackin is an expansive tenor saxophonist and highly lyrical flutist who never sounds freer than in a trio setting, backed only by a bassist (Boris Kozlov) and a drummer (Mark Taylor). 10, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369; cover, $20. (Chinen)

VISION COLLABORATION NIGHTS (Through Sunday) This scrappy mini-festival pairs avant-garde choreographers and dancers with like-minded musicians; among the reasons to attend this year is the omnipresence of Kidd Jordan, a gutsy tenor saxophonist and musical patriarch from New Orleans. 7:30 to 10 tonight and tomorrow night, 5 to 7 p.m. Sunday, 14th Street Y, 344 East 14th Street, East Village, (212) 696-6681, www.visionfestival.org; $20, $10 for students with ID. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

'AIDA' (Tomorrow and Sunday) The Amato Opera's reputation is that it conveys the spirit of, and a love for, Italian opera, though the full impact is impossible to achieve in a 102-seat theater with a cast that changes at every performance. And against the odds, all the principals at a recent performance of ''Aida'' managed to make it through to the end, demonstrating a true love of the piece if not always of the pitch. It's a unique experience. Tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday afternoon at 2:30, Amato Opera, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200; $30; $25 for students and 65+. (Anne Midgette)

'DARKLING' (Sunday through Tuesday, and Thursday) American Opera Projects' latest venture is a three-week run of this multimedia opera, which brings together extremely diverse composers -- Lee Hoiby and Stefan Weisman -- and performers, from singers to the alternative Flux Quartet. The subject: the Holocaust. Tuesday is opening night. Sunday afternoon at 3; Monday, Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8; East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200; $30 to $45.(Midgette)

'LA FORZA DEL DESTINO' (Tonight and Tuesday) It's tempting to say that ''Forza'' has the most numbingly ludicrous libretto of any Verdi opera, but with such stiff competition, who can truly say? Giancarlo del Monaco's drab staging, first seen in 1996 and hidden away in storage since then, offers little help, but the Met does have a vocally solid cast, with Deborah Voigt, Salvatore Licitra and Mark Delavan. Gianandrea Noseda conducts. Tonight at 8, Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $175.(Allan Kozinn)

'LAKME' (Sunday) Delibes's ''Lakme'' is best known for the coloratura soprano tour-de-force aria ''The Bell Song'' and an utterly dreamy duet for soprano and mezzo-soprano. But these days audiences do not often get to hear this once-popular opera complete. So it's good news for opera buffs that Eve Queler, a tireless champion of neglected works, will conduct a concert performance with the Opera Orchestra of New York. Eglise Gutierrez, a young Cuban-born soprano whose career is taking off, sings the title role, with a cast that includes a young Armenian tenor, Yeghishe Manucharyan, and the veteran bass James Morris. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $25 to $125. (Anthony Tommasini)

'ROMEO ET JULIETTE' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) The big news from the Met's new production of this Gounod opera is the French coloratura soprano Natalie Dessay. Singing with uncanny agility and lyrical elegance, she touchingly embodies the tragically impulsive young Juliette. The tenor Ramon Vargas, though a stiff actor, delivers a vocally impassioned Romeo. Guy Joosten's production evokes the look of Renaissance Italy, though with surreal touches and too much heavy-handed imagery of eternal love amid the starry cosmos. Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $150 remaining tickets tomorrow; $26 to $175 on Wednesday. (Tommasini)

'SAMSON ET DALILA' (Tomorrow and Thursday) The Met's color-coded production of this Saint-Saens opera, by Elijah Moshinsky, takes on Olga Borodina as Dalila. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; sold out tomorrow; $26 to $175 on Thursday. (Bernard Holland)

'LA TRAVIATA' (Monday) Angela Gheorghiu continues her star turn in the title role. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; sold out. (Holland)

Classical Music

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) A weekly presenter of chamber music concerts, this floating concert hall also offers great views of Lower Manhattan. Unfortunately, the roster of regular players seems to have shrunk of late. This weekend, the barge's executive director, Mark Peskanov, has again programmed himself and his colleagues as performers. This weekend, Mr. Peskanov and company play music by Mozart, Schubert, Shostakovich and Beethoven. Thursday, Allison Eldredge (cello) and Max Levinson (piano) perform Beethoven, Bartok and others. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 7:30, Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35. (Jeremy Eichler)

ALFRED BRENDEL (Monday) As this eminent Austrian pianist settles into his golden years, he seems quite content to focus on the Viennese Classical works that have been the core of his repertory. For his Carnegie recital he offers Schubert's lengthy and reflective late Sonata in G (D. 894), and Mozart's brooding Fantasy in C minor and melancholic Rondo in A minor. But if this sounds rather pensive, fear not: he will bracket these works with performances of two high-spirited and witty Haydn sonatas. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $28 to $97. (Tommasini)

BROOKLYN PHILHARMONIC (Tomorrow) The news is Michael Christie, the new music director of an orchestra that established a tradition of hot young music directors with Robert Spano. Mr. Christie gets raves from people who have encountered him; his opening concert includes the world premiere of a new ''Fanfare'' written for the event by John Corigliano, and Orff's ''Carmina Burana,'' as well as works by Stravinsky and Philip Glass. 8 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100; $20 to $60. (Midgette)

CAPPELLA ANDREA BARCA (Tomorrow) Like so many of his piano-playing colleagues, Andras Schiff takes up conducting as well in this all-Mozart program. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $28 to $97. (Holland)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Tonight and Sunday) The acclaimed pianist Angela Hewitt is known above all for Bach and French music; her programs with the Chamber Music Society this weekend focus on the French, with pieces ranging from a Ravel trio to the Franck quintet. She also joins the young German cellist Daniel Muller-Schott for the Debussy cello sonata. Tonight at 8, Sunday at 5 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788; $28 to $49 (Midgette).

JERUSALEM CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL (Wednesday and Thursday) Chamber music festivals, increasingly, are ensembles that come together for an intense couple of weeks and then go on the road. The pianist Elena Bashkirova founded this one in 1998, and it's been an occasional guest at Carnegie Hall, where this year its programs include Schoenberg's Chamber Symphony and a healthy admixture of Mozart. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $35 to $40. (Midgette)

I MUSICI (Sunday) This venerable Italian orchestra offers an all-Mozart program that includes the ''Serenata Notturna,'' the Piano Concerto No. 14 in E flat with Stephen Hough, the Divertimento in D (K. 136) and ''Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.'' 2 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $56. (Kozinn)

LOCRIAN CHAMBER PLAYERS (Tonight) This ensemble's rule is that it performs only works written in the last decade. Included this time are Lukas Foss's String Quartet No. 5 and ''For Toru,'' as well as works by Michael Daugherty, David Shohl and David Macdonald. 8, Riverside Church, 10th-floor performance space, Riverside Drive at 122nd Street, Morningside Heights, (718) 458-4864; free. (Kozinn)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight and tomorrow night) Robert Spano brings his energy and imagination to a New York Philharmonic program including Bartok, Harbison and Bernstein and featuring the soprano Dawn Upshaw. 8, Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $26 to $94. (Holland)

NEW YORK YOUTH SYMPHONY (Sunday) Paul Haas conducts ''The Other Rainbow'' by Roger Zare and Stravinsky's challenging ''Rite of Spring.'' 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $7 to $55. (Holland)

PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) For all reports, Christoph Eschenbach, now in his third season as music director, has had a shaky relationship with the Philadelphia players. Still, he is a comprehensive musician, and the orchestra is capable of doing great work with him. Longtime fans of this illustrious orchestra should be curious to hear this program, with the New York premiere of Esa-Pekka Salonen's ''Insomnia'' and Beethoven's ''Pastoral'' Symphony. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $25 to $99. (Tommasini)

* POMERIUM (Sunday) Alexander Blachly's early-music choir is a mainstay of the Music Before 1800 series, and of early-music life in New York generally. Its program this time centers on Ockeghem, and features his Missa ''L'Homme Arme,'' as well as works by Dufay, Binchois and Busnois. 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9266; $25 and $40; $20 and $35 for students and 62+. (Kozinn)

DAVID ROBERTSON YOUNG ARTISTS CONCERT (Tomorrow) In addition to presenting concerts, Carnegie Hall also runs numerous professional training workshops every year. This week, the conductor David Robertson and his colleagues have been working intensively with young musicians from around the country to prepare them in a program of challenging scores by Messiaen (''Sept Haikai'' and ''Oiseaux Exotiques'') and Varese (''Deserts''). Under Mr. Robertson's baton, the workshop participants will show what they've learned. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $15. (Eichler)

* JORDI SAVALL (Thursday) If you aren't convinced of the persuasive power of the viola da gamba, then you probably haven't heard Jordi Savall play it. There will be several opportunities this season, starting with this recital of works by Sainte-Colombe, Marais, Bach, Hume, Ferrabosco and others. 7:30 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $38. (Kozinn)

TAKACS QUARTET (Tonight) Bartok has long been a specialty of this quartet, which offers the Bartok Second as the centerpiece of a program that opens with Schubert's Quartet in A minor (D. 804) and closes with Mozart's Quintet in C (K. 515), with James Dunham joining to play the extra viola part. 7:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $44 and $52. (Kozinn)

LES VIOLONS DU ROY (Sunday) This spirited chamber orchestra is based in Quebec City and led by the able Canadian conductor Bernard Labadie. And while the group plays on modern instruments, its repertory often leans toward the Baroque. Here, it will perform Jean-Fery Rebel's ''Elemens,'' a suite from Rameau's ''Dardanus'' and arias by Rameau and Gluck. The Czech mezzo-soprano Magdalena Kozena, a frequent presence in New York in recent weeks, returns to Carnegie as the guest soloist. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $42 and $55. (Eichler)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

CARRIE AHERN (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Ahern describes her new ''Red,'' inspired by Margaret Atwood's ''Handmaid's Tale'' and by the clean lines of the performance space, as a ''work of beautiful suffocation.'' Her all-female ensemble includes some of the city's most interesting dance artists. 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org; $15. (Jennifer Dunning)

IVY BALDWIN DANCE AND KATE WEARE (Wednesday through March 4) Ms. Baldwin presents ''Gone Missing,'' a dance-theater piece featuring weary travelers lost in a winter forest. Ms. Weare explores bodily impulses and longing in ''Wet Road.'' 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtw.org; $12 and $20. (Erika Kinetz)

BROOKLYN ARTS COUNCIL'S THIRD ANNUAL FOLK FEET (Sunday) This free program, which explores the history of Brooklyn's immigrants through traditional dance, features folk dance from seven nations around the world. 2 to 6 p.m., Whitman Theater, Brooklyn College, 2900 Campus Road at Hillel Place, Flatbush, (718) 951-4500. (Dunning)

CIE MARTINE PISANI (Thursday) From Paris, this modern-dance company will present ''sans,'' which merges comedy and minimalism in the presences and movement styles of three company members. (Through March 5.) 8:30 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 242-0800 and www.joyce.org; $20. (Dunning)

* SEAN CURRAN COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday) In the inaugural program of this new performing space, Mr. Curran pulls out his inner Irish storyteller and melds it with a practiced choreographic perspective in three works: ''A Short List of Miniature Stories,'' created for the occasion; the lush ''Aria/Apology''; and the wry ''Companion Dances.'' Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200 or www.dnadance.org; $25. (Dunning)

DANCE AT DIXON PLACE: 'BODY BLEND' (Tuesday) The program features dance by Angie Fowler, Melanie Maar, Jason Somma and Ashley Wallace, chosen by the curator Isabel Lewis. 8 p.m. Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, SoHo, (212) 219-0736 or www.dixonplace.org; $12 or T.D.F.; students and 65+, $10. (Dunning)

DANCEBRAZIL (Tuesday through Thursday) Two programs explore the rich cultures of Bahia, Brazil, in choreography that merges Afro-Brazilian dance, live music and the martial arts form of capoeira, including a new dance by the company director Jelon Vieira to music by Tuze de Abreu. (Through March 12.) Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800 and www.Joyce.org; $42. (Dunning)

DANZAHOY (Tonight through Sunday) Employing both tango and the joropo, a traditional Venezuelan dance, Danzahoy brings ''Exodo'' to the Joyce for its first New York appearance in more than 20 years. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., the Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $36. (Claudia La Rocco)

DRASTIC ACTION (Thursday through Saturday) Aviva Geismar and her company will present new and recent dances that explore group dynamics and communication. They feature a woman in a rocking chair and a mythical creature that is part bird, part snake and part masquerade performer. (Through March 5.) 8:30 p.m., West End Theater, 263 West 86th Street, (212) 337-9565; $10 and $12. (Dunning)

TRAJAL HARRELL AND KAREN BERNARD (Tonight and tomorrow) Chosen by Tere O'Connor, these two choreographers will present a dance that unfolds like a diary (Bernard), and a piece that incorporates postmodern dance, fashion runway moves and vogueing (Harrell). Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, ext. 11, and www.thekitchen.org.; $10. (Dunning)

BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COMPANY (Tomorrow) Dance gets a remix in ''Another Evening: I Bow Down,'' featuring old and new work by Mr. Jones, as well as live music and digital manipulations by Daniel Bernard Roumain. 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200; $35 and $45. (La Rocco)

JUILLIARD SCHOOL: 'NEW DANCES/NEW MUSIC' (Tonight through Sunday) New dances by Adam Hougland, Jessica Lang and Alan Hineline to new music by Christopher Rouse, Pete M. Wyer and Jerome Begin, conducted by Andrea Quinn. (Through Feb. 26.) Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., Juilliard Theater, 155 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $20; $10 (at box office) for students and 65+. (Dunning)

* KINGS OF THE DANCE (Tonight through Sunday) While conceptually yet another copy of the Three Tenors, this program, on closer inspection, looks more interesting than that. It offers Angel Corella and Ethan Stiefel of American Ballet Theater, Johan Kobborg of the Royal Ballet and Nikolay Tsiskaridize of the Bolshoi Ballet. There will be new choreography by Christopher Wheeldon, Roland Petit, Nils Christie, Stanton Welch and Tim Rushton, along with solos by Balanchine, Grigorovich, Petipa and Bournonville, and Flemming Flindt's complete ''Lesson,'' in which each ''king'' (except for Mr. Stiefel, with his tender knees) will dance the role of the teacher on successive nights. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212 or www.citycenter.org; $35 to $150. (John Rockwell)

* REJINA NEJMAN & COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Nejman's ''Velocity of Things,'' in which six characters trapped in a futuristic carnival search desperately for balance in a fast-paced world, won the FringeNYC's 2005 Outstanding Choreography Award. 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479; $18; $15 for students and 65+; T.D.F. accepted. (Dunning)

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday) The winter season ends this weekend. Christopher Wheeldon's ''After the Rain'' can be seen tonight and tomorrow afternoon, when Peter Martins's new ''Friandises'' will also be performed. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, tomorrow at 2 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570 or www.nycballet.com; $30 to $86. (Rockwell)

NICHOLASLEICHTER DANCE WITH THE BROOKLYN PHILHARMONIC (Tomorrow) Mr. Leichter, long known on small stages for his energetic, multicultural physicality, has choreographed his first opera: Carl Orff's ''Carmina Burana.'' The program, which celebrates Michael Christie's inaugural season as music director of the Brooklyn Philharmonic, also includes a world premiere of John Corigliano's ''Fanfare'' and works by Igor Stravinsky and Philip Glass. 8 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music Howard Gilman Opera House, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100 or www.bam.org; $20 to $60; students, $10. (Kinetz)

92ND STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL: HEADLONG DANCE THEATER (Wednesday and Thursday) From Philadelphia, Headlong presents a preview of a new dance based on a short story by I. B. Singer, and the New York premiere of ''Mixed Tape for a Bad Year,'' a suite of short dance and a film that reflects the emotional toll of 12 months of disasters, war and political bitterness. (Through March 5.) 8 p.m. Ailey Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Manhattan (212) 415-5500 and www.92Y.org/harknessfestival; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

PAPPA TARAHUMARA (Thursday) This performance group makes its New York debut with ''Island,'' a tragic, multidisciplinary adaptation of Gabriel Garcia Marquez's story ''A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings.'' (Also March 3.) 7:30 p.m., Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 715-1258 or www.japansociety.org; $30; members, $25. (Kinetz)

* PAUL TAYLOR (Tuesday through Thursday) Having celebrated a milestone anniversary last year, the Paul Taylor Dance Company begins its ''next 50 years of greatness'' with its annual three-week season at City Center. The opening-night gala with live music is on Tuesday and includes one of the season's two New York premieres, ''Spring Rounds,'' set to Richard Strauss's arrangements of Couperin. The programs otherwise offer the typical mixture of Taylor standards and exotica. Tuesday at 7 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m. Through March 19.City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212 or www.nycitycenter.org; $15 to $80; some gala seats, especially if dinner is included, are more expensive. (Rockwell)

PEGGY SPINA TAP (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. Spina celebrates 25 years of performing, choreographing and teaching tap in a program of dances set to music performed live by the Joel Forrester Quartet. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 6 and 8:30 p.m., Spina Loft, 115 Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 674-8885; $20. (Dunning)

VISION COLLABORATION NIGHTS (Tonight through Sunday) In three different programs, work will be presented by 10 modern-dance choreographers set to live music by their collaborators, ending with an improv jam featuring most of the dancers. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 5 p.m., 14th Street Y Theater, 344 East 14th Street, East Village, (212) 696-6681 or www.visionfestival.org; $20. (Dunning)

REGGIE WILSON/FIST & HEEL PERFORMANCE GROUP (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Wilson and his superb musicians and dancers create a world that fuses the cultural traditions of the black American South, urban America, Africa and the Caribbean, this time in ''The Tale: Npinpee Nckutchie and the Tail of the Golden Dek,'' a new work that explores sexual attraction. 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077; $25; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'SURFACE ATTRACTION: PAINTED FURNITURE FROM THE COLLECTION,' through March 26. The remarkable images, abstract patterns and floral motifs that flutter across the 30 or so tables, chairs, cabinets and blanket chests in this beautiful, convention-stretching show confirm that from the late 1600's to the late 1800's, quite a bit of American painting talent and ambition was channeled into the decoration of everyday wood objects. The combination of imagination and utility, of economic means and lush effects, defines the human desire for beauty as hard-wired. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)

* Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'FASHION IN COLORS,' through March 26. Drawn from the collection of the Kyoto Costume Institute in Japan, this sumptuous show arranges 68 often lavish Western gowns and ensembles according to the colors of the spectrum and reinforces their progress with a posh, color-coordinated installation design. For an experience of color as color, it is hard to beat, but it also says a great deal about clothing, visual perception and beauty. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400.(Smith)

* Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum: 'David Smith: A Centennial,' through May 14. David Smith is best known for his worst work, bulky sculptures of the ''important'' kind that museums and banks like to buy. Much (though not all) of that material has been excised from this survey in favor of smaller, earlier, nonmonumental pieces that the curator, Carmen Gimenez, presents with plenty of air and light. The result is exemplary as a David Smith experience, an American Modernism experience and a Guggenheim Museum experience. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Holland Cotter)

JEWISH MUSEUM: 'SARAH BERNHARDT: THE ART OF HIGH DRAMA,' through April 2. This exhibition is devoted to the flamboyant 19th-century actress whose name was once invoked by mothers as a warning to melodramatic daughters: ''Who do you think you are, Sarah Bernhardt?'' Its almost overstuffed roster of items includes original Felix Nadar photos of Bernhardt at 20 and the human skull presented to her by Victor Hugo, the costumes she wore as Cleopatra and Joan of Arc, her own accomplished sculptures and relics of lovers and American tours. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200. (Edward Rothstein)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Art of Medicine in Ancient Egypt,' through May 7. Egypt was no picnic 5,000 years ago. The average life span was about 40 years. Wild animals were ever-present. Childbirth was perilous. Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illness were shots in the dark. Doctors were priests. Medicine was a blend of science, religion and art. The 65 or so objects in this beautiful show functioned as all three. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Cotter)

* MET: ANTONELLO DA MESSINA, through March 5. This small, focused show presents the work of a Sicilian master (about 1430-1479) regarded as the greatest painter to emerge from southern Italy in the 15th century. His signature work, shown here, is ''The Virgin Annunciate'' (about 1475-76), depicting Mary as a young Sicilian girl at the moment of the Annunciation, when she is told by the angel Gabriel that she will bear Jesus. The genius of the work lies in the way a traditional icon has been imbued with the life force of a flesh-and-blood human being. (See above.) (Grace Glueck)

* MET: Robert Rauschenberg: 'Combines,' through April 2. Big and handsome almost to a fault. There's something weird about seeing once joyfully rude and over-the-top contraptions from the 1950's and 60's lined up like choirboys in church, with their ties askew and shirttails out. But even enshrined, the combines still manage to seem incredibly fresh and odd, almost otherworldly. I thought of a medieval treasury -- all the rich colors and lights and intricate details. The most beautiful tend to be the early ones: large but delicate, with a subtle, fugitive emotional pitch. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'EDVARD MUNCH: THE MODERN LIFE OF THE SOUL,' through May 8. This affecting, full-scale retrospective is the first survey of this Norwegian painter in an American museum in almost 30 years. Its more than 130 oils and works on paper cover Munch's entire career, from 1880 to 1944. It also includes a large selection of prints -- many ingeniously adapted from his oils -- that played an important role in his art. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400. (Glueck)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'ON SITE: NEW ARCHITECTURE IN SPAIN,' through May 1. Since the early 1970's, when Spain began to awaken from the isolation of a four-decade dictatorship, Spanish architects have produced designs of unusual depth, often with a firm connection to the land, a sense of humility and a way of conveying continuity with the past while embracing the present. Packed with pretty images and elegant models, this exhibition lacks the scholarly depth you might have hoped for on such a mesmerizing subject. (See above.) (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

The Museum of Modern Art: JOHN SZARKOWSKI: 'PHOTOGRAPHS,' through May 15. A kind of homecoming, this beautiful show surveys the pictures taken by Mr. Szarkowski before and after his influential 29-year term at the helm of the Modern's photography department. The best show him combining the styles of the photographers he has long admired with his native ground -- the architecture and landscape of the upper Midwest. (See above.) (Smith)

* P.S. 1: 'Peter Hujar,' through March 6. When Peter Hujar died in 1987, he was a figure of acute interest to a small group of fans, and unknown to practically everyone else. His photographs of desiccated corpses in Sicilian catacombs and studio portraits of New York's downtown demimonde were a gorgeous shock, and their cocktail of Nadar, Weegee and Vogue shaped the work of many younger artists. This surveyish sampling includes several of his recurrent themes: portraits of people and animals, landscapes, still lifes and erotica. Sensuality and mortality are the binders throughout, inseparable. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084. (Cotter)

* Studio Museum in Harlem: 'FREQUENCY,' through March 12. Despite some marked unevenness, this display of new and recently emerged talent confirms the current vitality of black art, contemporary art and midsize New York museums. Names to look out for include Kalup Linzy, Leslie Hewitt, Jeff Sonhouse, Shinique Smith, Demetrius Oliver, Michael Paul Britto, Nick Cave, Mickalene Thomas and Michael Queenland, but don't stop there. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Smith)

Galleries: Uptown

Robert S. Neuman: 'Fifty Years' With good-humored generosity and a skillful, sensuous touch, Mr. Neuman has painted his way through several different genres over the course of his five-decade career, including Abstract Expressionism, geometric formalism, funky allegorical narrative and painterly landscapes that mourn the losses of the American Indians. Allan Stone, 113 East 90th Street, (212) 987-4997, through March 4. (Ken Johnson)

Galleries: 57th Street

* 'RON NAGLE AND THE HOLY GRAIl' Nominally, the 12 absurdly beautiful little ceramic objects that make up Mr. Nagel's eighth New York solo show are teacups. But an exquisite combination of sculptural form, color, surface and craftsmanship elevates each to a transcendental realm of pure aesthetic contemplation. They are smart and slyly humorous, too. Garth Clark, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 246-2205, through Feb. 25. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

Caitlin Atkinson: 'Chapters' Comical and touching staged photographs portray the artist herself in moments of anxiety and disappointment: contemplating a dish of lasagna she burned; apparently abandoned in an empty grocery store parking lot; and starting to disrobe at a nude beach. Foley, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 244-9081, through March 4. (Johnson)

Chuck Close, Annie Leibovitz, Vik Muniz: 'Inventive Fashion Photographs' Photographs of the silhouettes of fashion models, shaped in bent wire and based on fashion photographs by Vik Muniz; daguerreotype pictures of a naked Kate Moss; and fashion spreads by Annie Leibovitz based on ''Alice in Wonderland.'' Danziger, 521 West 26th Street, (212) 629-6778, through March 4. (Johnson)

Mimi Smith: 'Drawings from the 60's to the Present' Known for witty feminist sculptures based on women's clothing, Ms. Smith here presents drawings sampling her five-decade career, including a large, three-dimensional paper house covered with fine writing protesting environmental pollution and recent sets of finely made images of shoes and underwear representing stages in a woman's life from infancy to old age. Kustera Tilton, 520 West 21st Street, (212) 989-0082, through March 4. (Johnson)

Galleries: SoHo

'Space Boomerang' This darkly theatrical show includes sculptures like Cubist bathtubs by Mike Bouchet; a bicycle with endlessly spinning wheels by Jonathan Monk; a Minimalist wall sculpture dented on purpose by Bruno Peinado; a wall that intermittently vibrates violently by Loris Greaud; a magical light and smoke sculpture by Ann Veronica Janssens; a video documenting Gianni Motti's walk through a particle accelerator; a motorcycle immersed in the wax of burning candles by Mark Handforth; and a long, sleek wall of black plastic-shaded lights by Lang/Baumann. Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, near Broome Street, (212) 925-2035, through March 9. (Johnson)

Other Galleries

Joe Bradley: 'Kurgan Waves' Large, blocky men assembled from flimsy, brusquely painted canvases seem to have convened for a mysterious tribal ritual in Mr. Bradley's sharp sendup of Minimalist orthodoxy. Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, between Hester and Canal Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 925-4631, through March 4. (Johnson)

* 'Do You Think I'm Disco' There's a big story to be told about disco culture of the 1970's, which had roots in rhythm and blues, African-American church music, 1960's drug culture, gay liberation and all manner of anti-establishment politics. This modest group show touches on all of these elements, however glancingly and unsystematically, by considering the trickle-down effect of discomania on some new art today. Longwood Art Gallery@Hostos, 450 Grand Concourse, at 149th Street, Mott Haven, the Bronx, (718) 518-6728, through March 18. (Cotter)

* 'THE DOWNTOWN SHOW: THE NEW YORK ART SCENE, 1974-1984' The real down-and-dirty downtown art scene, when the East Village bloomed, punk and new wave rock assailed the ears, graffiti spread like kudzu and heroin, along with extreme style, raged, is the subject of this wild and woolly show. It's a humongous time warp of more than 450 paintings, sculptures, drawings, photographs, videos, posters, ephemera and things in between by artists, writers, performers, musicians and maestros of mixed media, from a photograph of the transvestite Candy Darling as she posed on her deathbed to a small, painted sculpture made of elephant dung by David Hammons. With so many clashing ideologies, points of view and attitudes toward art-making, this no-holds-barred hodgepodge generates the buzz and stridency of, say, Canal Street on payday. New York University, Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, (212) 998-6780; and Fales Library, 70 Washington Square South, (212) 988-2596, Greenwich Village; through April 1. (Glueck)

* Anya Gallaccio: 'One Art' The viscerally poetic single work occupying Sculpture Center's spacious main gallery is a 50-foot weeping cherry tree that was cut up and reassembled in the gallery, where it is held in place by steel cables and bolts. Sculpture Center, 44-19 Purves Street, at Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, through April 3. (Johnson)

'Site 92' The second exhibition in this nonprofit gallery's impressive big, new space presents site-specific works by more than 25 artists. Highlights includes a colorful column of hovering butterflies made of candy wrappers by Luisa Caldwell; fanciful architectural elements painted on the wall by Amy Yoes; people imitating the sounds of pigeons in an audio-video work by Beth Krebs; and, by Virginia Poundstone, a tableau representing a satellite that has crashed in the jungle. Smack Mellon, 92 Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 834-8761, through March 5. (Johnson)

Last Chance

* HOME STORIES: AN INSIDE LOOK AT SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES IN AUSTRIA Departing from standard-issue architectural exhibitions with a slightly too clever design, this show of 21 recent houses includes portraits of their inhabitants and poster-size sheets free for the taking that function as both labels and catalog. The totality feels like a collaboration among Bernd and Hilla Becher, Felix Gonzalez-Torres and the contemporary photographer of your choice, but it makes an excellent case for the vitality of Austrian architecture. Austrian Cultural Forum, 11 East 52nd Street, (212) 319-5300: closes tomorrow. (Smith)

'I Love My Scene' This intriguing and puzzling exhibition organized by Jose Freire, director of Team Gallery, includes photographs of movie stars and models by Cecil Beaton; pictures of murder and accident victims by Weegee; faux-antique architectural studies drawn by Pablo Bronstein; and large sculptures by Keith Sonnier, Banks Violette and Lothar Hempel. Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 752-2929; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

EIRIK JOHNSON: 'BORDERLANDS' Small, serendipitous encounters in the landscape are the subjects of Eirik Johnson's large color photographs: junk hung picturesquely on a wire fence along a shore; a red sweater splayed between trees in a woods; a fragile, impromptu bridge of skinny logs laid across a creek. In one photograph, a huge crumple of grayish fabric plopped on grass and maybe used as a shelter has the imposing look of a sculptural boulder. There are no control-freak setups here. Rather, it seems that Mr. Johnson helps the camera make its own discoveries, often with poetic results. Yossi Milo Gallery, 525 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-0370; closes tomorrow. (Glueck)

* ZILVINAS KEMPINAS In contrasting works, this artist uses videotape to create one environment and record another. The resulting Op Art installation and a record of a bike ride through Times Square conspire; sensory overload, both retinal and aural, ensues, as does a surprising application of the less-is-more principle. Spencer Brownstone Gallery, 39 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 334-3455; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* 'Speak: Nine Cartoonists' Original drawings and studies by nine of the best comic-book artists in the business, including R. Crumb, Daniel Clowes, Gary Panter, Chris Ware and Art Spiegelman. Pratt Manhattan Gallery, 144 West 14th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 647-7778; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

* BEC STUPAK/HONEYGUN LABS: 'RADICAL EARTH MAGIC FLOWER' This ambitious gallery debut centers on a blind remake of Jack Smith's 1963 orgiastic ode to transvestism and Hollywood camp, ''Flaming Creatures,'' projected on a wall opposite the original, with Ms. Stupak's subtitlelike storyboards appearing in between. The contrast is mutually enhancing up to a point; the Stupak provides color and detail missing from the blurry, black-and-white Smith film, but the earlier effort still carries the day. Deitch Projects, 76 Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 343-7300; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* TRIFECTA This energetic curatorial face-off consists of three exhibitions devoted to young artists (nearly 20 in all), organized by the gallery's owner, Becky Smith, and her assistants, Esme Watanabe and Erica Samuels. The three groupings progress from minimal to hyper-real, with Ms. Watanabe's selection, which lands somewhere in the middle, edging out those of her colleagues. Sara VanDerBeek's set-up photographs, which suggest a Surrealist's garret, are a find. Bellwether, 194 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-5959; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

Johannes Wohnseifer: 'New Alphabet' Paintings and sculptures in several different styles by this brainy young German conceptualist obscurely explore semiotics relating to the industrial, military, political and popular entertainment spheres. He has a keen sense of design, and the sculptures made of pieces of shiny bent metal and thick felt are extremely elegant. But over all, his project looks like that of an academic theory wonk. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-7335; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: Photos: CLASSICAL -- Clifton Forbis, above, as Samson in ''Samson et Dalila'' at the Metropolitan Opera, Page 25.
POP -- The Yeah Yeah Yeahs, with Karen O, left, are at the Bowery Ballroom today and tomorrow, Page 25. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
ART -- A self-portrait, right, in ''Edvard Munch: The Modern Life of the Soul'' at the Museum of Modern Art, Page 26. (Photo by Marty Sohl/Metropolitan Opera [''Samson et Dalila'']
 The Munch Museum/The Munch-Ellingsen Group/Artists Rights Society, New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); WRITERS (61%); THEATER (58%); TERRORISM (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (57%); CATE BLANCHETT (57%); RICK PERRY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



507 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Drop 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing initial claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell by 20,000 last week, to levels close to the lowest in six years, according to a government report released Thursday. 
 First-time claims for state unemployment aid dropped to 278,000 in the week that ended Feb. 18, from an upwardly revised 298,000 the previous week, the Labor Department said. The number was under 300,000 for the sixth consecutive week, the longest stretch in more than five years.
''Initial claims were significantly better than the expected 300,000, and they were well within the range we would expect in a solid job market," said Patrick Fearon, senior economist for A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis.
 ''It remains pretty clear that corporations are interested in holding on to their workers as the economy continues to expand,'' Mr. Fearon said.
 The four-week moving average of initial claims, which smooths weekly volatility to provide a better sense of job market trends, fell to 281,750, from 283,250.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); TRENDS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



508 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop on Concerns About Rates and Inflation 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as an unexpected decline in jobless claims rekindled concern that inflation might accelerate and prompt the Federal Reserve to keep raising interest rates. 
 The decline in claims, suggesting that companies may have to offer higher pay to attract workers, overshadowed a second day of falling oil prices. Inflation gauges, including the Consumer and Producer Price Indexes, have been largely responsible for the market's swings during the last week.
 ''Inflation is the skeleton in the closet,'' said William B. Greiner, who oversees $7 billion as chief investment officer at the UMB Financial Corporation in Kansas City, Mo. 
 ''We have to look at our outlook for the stock market'' if the central bank raises rates more than twice, he said. The Fed policy makers have increased their target rate 14 times since June 2004. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 67.95 points, or 0.6 percent, to 11,069.22, retreating from a four-year high. General Motors led the slump as it fell for a fourth day.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slid 4.88 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,287.79. The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.85 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,279.32. 
 The number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits fell by 20,000, to 278,000, in the week that ended on Feb. 18, the Labor Department said. Wages account for two-thirds of business costs, and gains pose an inflation risk and increase the likelihood that Fed policy makers will keep lifting rates, economists said. 
 Comments from the Dallas Federal Reserve Bank president, Richard W. Fisher, reinforced the concerns of some investors that the Fed would deem the economy growing fast enough to warrant further rate increases. The economy is likely to expand by more than 4 percent at an annual rate in the January-to-March quarter after fourth-quarter growth that was the slowest in three years, Mr. Fisher said.
 G.M. lost 60 cents, to $20.59, for the worst performance in the Dow average. Moody's Investors Service this week cut its debt rating for the fourth time in a year. 
 Dana, a maker of axles for light trucks, sank 74 cents, to $3.15, for the biggest drop in the S.& P. 500. Trading in its credit-default swaps indicates that investors see an increased likelihood that Dana will default on its debt. On Tuesday, the company postponed a decision on paying its 1-cent-a-share cash dividend for the first quarter. 
 A decline in oil prices alleviated some concern about inflation. Crude oil for April delivery slid 0.8 percent, to $60.54 a barrel, in New York, on speculation that fuel inventories are adequate to make up for reduced shipments from Nigeria. 
 Wal-Mart Stores rose 22 cents, to $45.70. The company said it would expand health care benefits for part-time workers and build more than 50 health clinics nationwide. Wal-Mart has faced criticism from lawmakers and employees, who say it has failed to provide adequate benefits. 
 Limited Brands, which owns the Victoria's Secret and Express chains, rose 68 cents, to $24.09, after it said fourth-quarter profit rose 36 percent on a tax gain and the largest sales increase in 18 months. 
 Safeway, the grocer, had its best rally since May, after reporting a better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit. Safeway rose $1.10, to $24.35, for the largest gain in the S.& P. 500. 
 Sherwin-Williams, the paint retailer, lost $1.15, to $42.05, extending yesterday's 18 percent decline after a jury in Rhode Island ruled in a product liability case that it was responsible for lead paint damages in the state. 
 Viacom fell 96 cents, to $41. The company said last Wednesday that fourth-quarter profit declined 67 percent after box-office losses at the Paramount Pictures film division.
 The price of the 10-year Treasury bill fell 8/32, to 99 18/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.55 percent, from 4.52 percent Wednesday. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year Treasury notes:



 (000 omitted in dollar figures)	 	Price	99.460	High Yield	4.622	Low Yield	4.550	Median Yield	4.594	Total applied for	$34,002,456	Accepted	$17,500,006	Noncompetitive	$147,456	Interest set at	4 1/2	The five-year notes mature Feb. 28, 2011.	 	




GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since November, 2005. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DIVIDENDS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE POWER TRAIN MFG (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UMB FINANCIAL CORP (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

TICKER: UMBF (NASDAQ) (71%); GM (NYSE) (55%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



509 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Increasingly, the Home Is Paying for Retirement

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH and EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Two years ago, George and Mollie Weiner were scraping by on $1,800 a month in Social Security payments and just $100 in monthly payouts from their individual retirement accounts. 
 But last year, the couple, both 80, realized they could generate more income from their two-bedroom condo near Tampa, Fla., which had more than doubled in value since they bought it in 1997. They took out a ''reverse mortgage,'' a loan that does not require monthly repayments, giving them access to more than $100,000.
''We are very relaxed now because we have extra spending money,'' Mr. Weiner said. ''And the house is taking care of it.''
 An increasing number of retirees may be starting to follow the Weiners' example. New data released yesterday from the Federal Reserve shows that for the elderly, like Americans in general, housing wealth has soared even as other forms of savings have declined. 
 The Fed's latest survey of consumer finance showed that overall wealth increased very little for most American families from 2001 to 2004. For the typical American household, net worth -- the sum of all assets less debts -- barely increased, to $93,100 from $91,700. Their savings dropped by 23 percent while the value of their homes rose 22 percent.
 For retirees, this shifting financial status is likely to force many of them into a decision no other generation has faced: to use their home as the centerpiece of their retirement plan.
 Americans have not traditionally used their homes to finance retirement, choosing instead to pay down the mortgage and bequeath the house to their children. But the increasing wealth that has concentrated in homes during the boom of the last decade, compared with dwindling pension benefits and lackluster market returns, means that many retirees are finding that their largest source of additional income could come, in fact, from their homes.
 ''People are living longer and longer, so over time they're going to be draining their retirement accounts,'' said Gillette Edmunds, an investor and author, with Jim Keene, of ''Retire on the House: Using Real Estate to Secure Your Retirement'' (John Wiley & Sons: 2005.)
 ''The only thing they are not draining yet is their houses,'' Mr. Edmunds said, ''and that's what they're going to have to turn to.''
 The Fed's 2004 survey, released yesterday, painted a precarious tableau of retirement planning.
 Just under half of all families held retirement accounts in 2004, down from 52.2 percent in 2001, the date of the previous survey. The stock market has rebounded from its low in 2002, but the Fed's survey illustrates the lingering damage inflicted by the stock market collapse and the 2001 recession on Americans' net worth. At the same time, it underscores how the surge in housing prices has propped up otherwise shaky balance sheets, even as housing prices in some markets appear to have peaked.
 The typical family's savings -- either in retirement accounts or elsewhere -- fell to $23,000, almost $7,000 less than three years earlier. Meanwhile, the median indebtedness of the three out of four families who had some form of debt rose by a third, to $55,300.
 The erosion of savings affected the wealthy and the poor alike. The savings of people at the top 10 percent of the income scale declined by 6 percent, to $365,100; their income, on average, fell by about the same proportion. (Meanwhile, the typical American's income rose marginally.)
 The financial picture is particularly unsettling for those households headed by a retired person. The typical savings of such a family fell to $26,500 in 2004, from $34,400 in 2001.
 ''Everybody is having a terrible time,'' said Alicia Munnell, who heads the retirement research center at Boston College. ''Nobody is enjoying much in terms of growth in net worth. No one has enough to support themselves in retirement for 20 years.''
 According to calculations by Ms. Munnell, even the group aged 55 and 64 -- the only age category to increase savings in the last three years -- has only amassed a small fraction of what people need to maintain their lifestyle in retirement. 
 Home prices provided pretty much the only upbeat news. Just over 69 percent of Americans owned their own homes in 2004, according to the Fed data. The median value of their homes jumped to $160,000 in 2004 from $131,000 three years before, a rise of 22 percent.
 Among households headed by retirees, nearly 76 percent owned their homes in 2004. The median value of their homes also jumped 22 percent, to $130,000, compared with $106,500 in 2001. Few people expect to draw equity from their homes to finance their retirement. ''They use it more like catastrophic insurance,'' said Steven F. Venti, an economist at Dartmouth College. ''It's not a means to finance day-to-day consumption.''
 But increasing numbers of retirees may find themselves forced to turn to their homes for further income.
 ''A lot of people went into retirement with pension funds and stock market investments that they thought would serve them toward the end,'' said Bronwyn Belling, reverse mortgage specialist at the AARP Foundation in Washington. ''They've been in for some pretty rude awakenings.''
 Already, evidence is mounting that older people are tapping the equity in their homes more aggressively. In the late 1980's, the Federal Housing Authority began a pilot program of reverse mortgages -- loans, made mostly to seniors against the value of their homes, that do not require monthly payments. 
 Elderly borrowers whose incomes will not qualify them for a more traditional home equity loan can still opt for a reverse mortgage. The loans are usually worth some fraction of a home's value, and need to be repaid, with interest, only when the house is sold or the borrower dies. 
 The program drew little attention for more than a decade. But as home prices soared, it took off. Last year, more than 43,000 older homeowners took out reverse mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Authority, a sixfold jump since 2000. 
 ''This is the fastest-growing mortgage segment by far,'' said Jim Mahoney, chief executive of Financial Freedom, an arm of IndyMac Bank that specializes in reverse mortgages. ''Clearly this is a product whose time is coming.''
 The wealth that retirees have accumulated in their homes may be used not only to finance day-to-day expenses, but long-term care as well. Barbara R. Stucki, who manages a project about reverse mortgages at the National Council on Aging, told a Congressional subcommittee last year that a broader use of these loans could save many seniors from dropping into the arms of Medicaid, saving the federal program $3.3 billion to $5 billion a year in 2010.
 Some retirees are cashing out of their homes to support themselves. Don Took, who worked most of his career as a stage actor in Southern California, sold his condo in Santa Ana last year for $355,000, nearly four times what he paid for it in 1998.
 Mr. Took, 66, has invested the proceeds from the sale and now rents an apartment for $750 a month in North Hollywood. The investment income supplements his Social Security and pensions he receives from Actors Equity and the theater where he worked for most of his career.
 ''Now I have more money than I ever did while I was working,'' he said. 
 For many retirees, though, selling a home to finance other expenses is unappealing. According to an AARP survey released earlier this month, 89 percent of those over 50 said they wanted to stay in their homes as long as possible. For those aged 65 to 74, the proportion was even higher.
 For the moment, families headed by people aged 55 to 64 appear to be in somewhat better shape than other age groups. The prices of their homes, like everyone else's, boomed, but unlike other cohorts, their incomes rose and their savings increased, according to the Fed survey. 
 Yet even this group does not have enough in financial assets to pay for a secure retirement. According to Ms. Munnell of Boston College, families should save at least five times their annual income to finance an adequate retirement. 
 According to the Fed's survey, however, the 95 percent of Americans 55 to 64 who had any savings at all typically had amassed $78,000, which is only about 1.5 times their median annual earnings. 
 That suggests that more of them will need to tap into their home equity. ''We're looking at the baby boomers coming in shortly and a lot of them have been earn-and-spend type personalities,'' said W. L. Pulsipher, president of American Reverse Mortgage in Ocala, Fla. ''So chances are they are going to be more apt to need to use their home than the current people that are doing it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Don Took sold his condo last year for $355,000, and now rents an apartment for $750 in North Hollywood. (Photo by Misha Erwitt for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''A Shifting Portfolio''Housing wealth has soared among the elderly, even as other forms of saving have declined. Median value among retirees with selected assets, in 2004 dollarsGraph shows FINANCIAL ASSETS and PRIMARY RESIDENCE wealth since 1989.(Source by Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); AGING (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); BONDS (62%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (61%) Retirement; Housing; Personal Finances; Income; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Savings; Stocks and Bonds; Retirement; Retirement

COMPANY: JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (52%); JWA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: Motoko Rich; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



510 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words

 BODY:

Internal Inquiry at Fannie Mae Finds That Executives Manipulated Accounting
An internal investigation has uncovered new evidence that senior executives of Fannie Mae, the nation's largest buyer of home mortgages, manipulated its accounting in the 1990's to meet earnings projections so that top executives could receive more than $27 million in bonuses. [Page C1.] 


White House Seeks Compromise on Ports Deal
The Bush administration signaled that it was seeking a way to delay, at least briefly, a Dubai company's takeover of six major American port terminals in the United States, in hopes that the additional time might assuage angry lawmakers who are threatening to block the deal. [A1.]

American companies began withdrawing from the port management business decades ago, ceding the now booming industry to enterprises in the Asia and the Middle East. [C1.]

Wal-Mart Announces Change in Health Care Rules
Wal-Mart Stores, facing a raft of state legislation that would require it to increase spending on employee health insurance, said it planned to ease several longstanding -- and heavily criticized -- restrictions on who is eligible for the company's benefits. [C1.]

Companies Expect Government Help on Health Costs
America's largest companies expect the federal government to pay them about $4 billion over the next four years to help keep their retiree health plans alive at a time when retiree benefits are increasingly on the chopping block, according to a new study by Credit Suisse First Boston. [C3.]

Genetically Engineered Drug Rejected in Europe
European regulators declined to approve what would have been the first drug produced in the milk of genetically engineered animals. [C4.]

HealthSouth to Pay $445 Million to Settle Investor Suits
HealthSouth, which runs a chain of outpatient rehabilitation hospitals, said it had agreed to pay $445 million to settle investor lawsuits filed after federal investigators uncovered accounting fraud at the company. Under the terms of the agreement, which must be approved by the judge overseeing the case, HealthSouth's insurance carriers will pay stockholders and bondholders $230 million in cash. The company will pay the remaining $215 million with common stock and warrants. [C6.]

For More Retirees, Homes Are Major Source of Wealth
The increasing wealth that has concentrated in housing during the boom of the last decade, compared with dwindling pension benefits and lackluster stock market returns, means that many retirees are finding that their largest source of additional income may come from their home. [C1.]

Deutsche Bank Said to Be in Settlement Talks
Deutsche Bank is in talks with the Justice Department in an effort to settle a criminal investigation over the bank's role in questionable tax shelters, people briefed on the case say. [C3.]

Labor Groups Differ on Plan to Legalize Workers
President Bush's effort to legalize 11 million illegal immigrants has created divisions among the nation's labor unions. [A14.]

The nation's largest labor union, the National Education Association, has decided to permit its local chapters to join the A.F.L.-C.I.O. [A14.]

London Equity Firm to Buy Jil Sander From Prada
Change Capital Partners, a London-based private equity firm, said it would buy the Jil Sander fashion label from the Prada Group. [C3.]

Stocks Decline on Concerns About Inflation
Stocks fell as an unexpected decline in jobless claims rekindled concern that inflation might accelerate. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 67.95 points, to 11,069.22. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slid 4.88 points, to 1,287.79. The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.85 points, to 2,279.32. [C7.]

Heineken Using Web to Promote Its New Light Beer
The United States arm of the Dutch brewer Heineken will unleash a multimedia effort, including a barrage of advertising on Web sites, to introduce its Premium Light brand. The campaign, with a budget estimated at $50 million, will include television and radio commercials, print advertisements, outdoor signs, promotions and a campaign tailored to Spanish-speaking consumers. Heineken Premium Light will be the second light beer sold in this country by Heineken, joining Amstel Light. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C4.]

BlackRock's Chief on Calibrating the Risk Factor
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of BlackRock, attributes his success to the idea that a portfolio of assets scrubbed well enough for risk can appeal to both sophisticated institutions who seek high returns as well as more risk-averse retail investors. Last week his firm agreed to a $9 billion merger with Merrill Lynch's asset management unit. Street Scene. [C5.]

Brazil to Repurchase $6.64 Billion in Bonds
Brazil will buy back all $6.64 billion worth of bonds issued amid a financial crisis a decade ago, using the country's swelling foreign reserves and strengthening currency to close a chapter on that period. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows HealthSouth share prices since January, 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); INSURANCE (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); BONDS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); LITIGATION (68%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (68%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); JUDGES (63%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); WAL-MART STORES INC (83%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (53%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (51%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); HLS (NYSE) (53%); DEUT (JSE) (51%); DBK (FRA) (51%); DBK (BIT) (51%); DBETN (JSE) (51%); DBA (ASX) (51%); DB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (83%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (53%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (53%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (53%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



511 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE RECOVERY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: After Hurricanes Come Tempests Over Cleanups 

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

DATELINE: PONCHATOULA, La. 

 BODY:
When a big contracting company hired him to clean up this small town northwest of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, Matthew Lopez saw it as a way to help his neighbors and to make decent money: $9 for every cubic yard of hurricane debris he delivered to a dump.
 But as soon as he started clearing downed branches, there was a problem: out-of-town contractors that also worked for the larger company were sneaking into his territory and snatching up the loose debris.
''You'd push up a pile with a Bobcat, turn your back, and their truck would be right there,'' he said. That left him and his small crew to do the hard, not very lucrative work of cutting up big trees with chain saws. 
 So Mr. Lopez did what a lot of small contractors here say they are trying to do: he found a lawyer and sued the big company that had hired him for breach of contract, saying it favored his out-of-town rivals and had let them steal his work.
 The case is just one of dozens of courthouse disputes and public controversies that have erupted over the still-gargantuan task of removing tons of debris in Louisiana and Mississippi, almost six months after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
 Government officials, contractors and workers all describe a complicated and bureaucratic process that wastes money, slows the cleanup and fails to ensure that the economic benefits of the work go to the people who need them most, the residents of the disaster areas.
 Indeed, the problems are now so clear that even the Department of Homeland Security and its Congressional critics have decided that the entire process for cleaning up after storms -- and paying for the cleanups -- needs to be restructured. 
 Among the many problems that have plagued the $1.3 billion cleanup program are these:
 Contractors and workers, ranging from individual laborers to a quality-control consulting firm, contend that they have been abused, underpaid or not paid at all. The Southern Poverty Law Center, which recently filed a federal lawsuit in New Orleans accusing two private cleanup companies of shortchanging hundreds of immigrant laborers, says the federal government is turning a blind eye to violations of labor law.
 Many local government officials complain about the slow pace of the cleanup, which federal officials concede is only half done in Louisiana. Local politicians are also fuming over their lack of control over what happens in their communities.
 Congressional leaders from Mississippi say that one large and politically connected debris-removal company, AshBritt Inc. of Pompano Beach, Fla., is trying to thwart a plan to give work to small companies in their state. The company says it is the victim of a politically motivated effort to take away its business.
 Louisiana contractors are so angry about the small quantity and low quality of the work they are getting that their trade organization is asking the state to take over federal debris-removal contracts being handled by the Army Corps of Engineers. Local people say that armies of middlemen do no work but siphon off money, while some big companies contend that they have been forced to hire contractors on the basis of their political connections.
 Meanwhile, government investigators have opened at least five inquiries into debris removal, and federal prosecutors have filed two criminal complaints involving it.
 Officials of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers, which handle much of the contracting for debris removal, say the agencies are satisfied with the cleanup's pace, given the magnitude of the task. They note that Hurricane Katrina created twice as much debris as the four 2004 hurricanes in Florida combined. 
 In Louisiana, of an estimated 60 million cubic yards of debris, about 32.7 million cubic yards of debris were picked up by early February, 18 million of them by contractors hired by the corps, according to FEMA data. In Mississippi, where local governments have been more prone to undertake their own removal, almost 32 million cubic yards out of 43 million have been removed.
 The corps says it has spent about $1.3 billion so far, and FEMA is spending hundreds of millions of dollars more reimbursing local governments for the debris removal for which they contract directly.
 But some outside experts agree with the local complaint that the pace has been far too slow. ''I've been shocked,'' said Jane A. Bullock, a former senior official with FEMA who is now a consultant and a professor at George Washington University. ''The recovery is going every bit as badly as the response did.''
 [Last week, Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, acknowledged that debris removal remained a problem. He vowed to Congress to improve the system by, among other things, ''cutting out middle-men and ensuring that states are quickly and cost-effectively supported by qualified local debris removal firms.''] 
 Before Hurricane Katrina, the Army Corps of Engineers, which handles federal debris removal programs on FEMA's behalf, had a standing contract with AshBritt to clean up after emergencies in Louisiana and Mississippi. But in early September, facing the hurricane's enormous destruction, the corps opened the job to competitive bidding and awarded $500 million contracts to four big out-of-state companies.
 AshBritt was given Mississippi; Ceres Environmental Services of Brooklyn Park, Minn., was assigned Louisiana cleanup north of New Orleans; and the Environmental Chemical Corporation of Burlingame, Calif., and Phillips & Jordan of Nashville were given contracts to work in and around New Orleans.
 Local governments were also allowed to hire their own debris-removal companies, with the cost to be picked up by FEMA. But many local officials complain they were discouraged from doing so by threats that they would be audited or have to cover some costs themselves.
 It was in part a desire to get work for local people that prompted St. Bernard Parish, the devastated area east of New Orleans, to insist on hiring its own contractor, officials there say. But five months after basically every building in the parish was flooded, FEMA has yet to reimburse the government or its contractor for debris removal costs, which the public works department says have reached $50 million. Local officials say they are being punished.
 ''This is blackmail; you can't tell me it's not,'' said Henry Rodriguez, the parish president. ''They're trying to put our contractor out of business, to prove that you have to use the Corps.'' St. Bernard may borrow money to pay part of the bill, he said recently, adding, ''FEMA will cause the parish to go bankrupt in six months or a year.''
 The Louisiana Office of Emergency Preparedness and Homeland Security, which is an intermediary between local governments and FEMA, said the federal agency contends that the parish was paying its contractor too much, particularly for demolition, according to an e-mail message from Mark C. Smith, the state agency's spokesman.
 This argument infuriates Clyde P. Martin, Jr., who until he resigned on Feb. 10 was St. Bernard's director of public works. FEMA will not tell the parish what prices it considers reasonable, he said. And despite the best efforts of his staff, he said, they cannot find out what the Corps is paying in New Orleans, which had similar damage.
 The Corps has refused to release many details of its contracts, including how much it is paying its main contractors, who say they cannot give out information without the Corps' permission. The debate over using local businesses may be even more intense in Mississippi as a result of the Corps's decision in September to award the $500 million Mississippi contract to AshBritt of Florida. Members of Congress from both parties demanded to know why the work had not gone to a local company, which they said was required by federal law.
 In December, the Corps responded by seeking a new $300 million contract with an unprecedented twist: only Mississippi companies would be allowed to bid. Up to $150 million would be reserved for small or minority-owned businesses.
 That angered Mr. Perkins, AshBritt's owner, who said the new contract would not benefit small companies, which he said were already getting more than 70 percent of money his company spent in Mississippi.
 ''I understand the political side that takes place probably better than any businessman in this business,'' said Mr. Perkins, a major donor to the Republican Party who is known for aggressive lobbying. (He has hired, among others, the firm founded by Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi.)
 AshBritt has filed formal contract protests, prompting bipartisan criticism from Congressional leaders. 
 ''After all that has happened to the Gulf Coast, I find it appalling that any company would resort to legal maneuverings to make a few dollars off of Mississippi's pain,'' Representative Bennie Thompson of Mississippi, the ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Homeland Security, said in a statement.
 But Mr. Perkins remains defiant. ''I'm way out on the end of a plank here with sharks circling around,'' he said, explaining his decision to file a protest to the new contract. ''But I don't have a choice. They are taking my business away.''
 That is precisely the feeling expressed on a much smaller scale by Mr. Lopez, the dump truck owner, whose lawsuit against Ceres Environmental has been moved to Federal District Court in New Orleans.
 Ceres has asked the court to dismiss the case or require it to go to arbitration or mediation. ''Lopez seeks payment for work he was not promised, work he did not perform, and indeed, work he was not capable of performing,'' the company said in court filings.
 Mr. Lopez maintains that he was sandbagged by Ceres, and hopes to be paid money he says the company owes him for work he did, as well as some compensation for the work he thinks was stolen by the favored out-of-town crew.
 His suit seeks information about how much debris was removed and how much subcontractors were paid, said Jed Cain, a lawyer who represents him. 
 Mr. Lopez said he wanted answers to another question about debris removal. ''You wonder,'' he said, ''where the money's going.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Matthew Lopez, foreground, with his lawyer Jed Cain, says out-of-towners are stealing his cleanup work. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (89%); LITIGATION (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); BRUSH & RUBBLE COLLECTION (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); QUALITY CONTROL (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Suits and Litigation; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Waste Materials and Disposal; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Homeland Security Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (63%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: Leslie Eaton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Louisiana; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



512 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM SOUTH KOREA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Campaigning for Human Rights, and Fishing for Souls

BYLINE: By Norimitsu Onishi

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
After spending 18 months illegally in China in the mid-1980's and converting to Christianity, Kim Tae Jin was locked up for four years in North Korea's infamous prison camp No. 15 at Yodok.
 He fled North Korea a few years after his release and in 2001 found his way to South Korea, where he is a co-chairman of NK Gulag, a private group focusing on human rights in North Korea. For Mr. Kim, while securing those rights is an important goal, it comes second to a far more consequential one: evangelizing in North Korea.
''God never ordered us to fight for human rights, but he ordered us to spread the word to the end of the earth,'' Mr. Kim, 50, said, adding that the group's leaders were North Korean converts to Christianity. Their faith, he said, buttressed their political work. ''Because we are North Koreans and Christians, we feel responsible for leading the fight for better conditions in North Korea.'' 
 In South Korea, the issue of human rights in the North has been spearheaded by conservative Christians whose aim is to take their faith to the northern half of the divided peninsula. Although the movement's most visible spokesmen are North Korean defectors, its core is made up of South Korean Christians who in the past decade have grown into the world's second-largest overseas missionary force after the United States'.
 The Korean Christians, along with evangelical American Christians, have formed a sometimes uneasy alliance with conservative American politicians. All share a distaste for negotiating with North Korea over any issue, from human rights to nuclear arms, and a desire for a change of government in the North. They fiercely criticize the South Korean government's engagement of North Korea, which they say has led to an immoral silence over abuses in the North.
 Few here would argue with the assessment of organizations like Human Rights Watch that the North Korean government is ''among the world's most repressive,'' engaging in arbitrary arrests and the pervasive use of torture. North Korea is a place, Human Rights Watch points out, with no fair trials, no political opposition, no independent civil society and no freedom of information or religion.
 But the North Korean human rights issue has become so politicized that the actual plight of North Koreans is often emphasized or de-emphasized for other ends. 
 ''Right now, both Koreans and Americans have ulterior motives in focusing on North Korean human rights,'' said the Rev. Benjamin H. Yoon, who ran Amnesty International's South Korea office for many years before founding the Citizens' Alliance for North Korean Human Rights in 1996. It is the oldest private group concerned with abuses in the North.
 Mr. Yoon's group is critical of the Christian groups for linking human rights with evangelizing and the South Korean government for failing to speak out on the subject.
 The South Korean government contends that it is putting a priority on peace on the Korean peninsula by refraining from spotlighting human rights violations by the North Korean government, which regards such criticism as a threat to its hold on power. South Korea says it is promoting human rights in the North by increasing economic ties and nudging it toward more openness.
 To South Korea, harsh talk on human rights is a cover for hard-liners here and in the Bush administration to scuttle six-nation talks over the nuclear crisis. Just as the Bush administration's recent focus on the North's counterfeiting after more than a decade of silence has outraged the North Koreans, the continuing focus on human rights has handed North Korea another excuse not to resume talks. 
 By contrast, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said recently that she planned to focus more attention on North Korean rights abuses. ''We've talked about this issue with South Korea, which is not always an easy conversation,'' Ms. Rice told the House International Relations Committee.
 The politicization of human rights is reflected in South Korea's recent history, Mr. Yoon said. During South Korea's military rule, proponents of democratization, including Roh Moo Hyun, now the president and a former human rights lawyer, fought for human rights and ''were considered progressive and leftist,'' Mr. Yoon, 76, said.
 ''Now, because of the government's engagement policy toward the North, speaking out against human rights abuses in the North is regarded as reactionary and rightist,'' he said.
 Until the start of its ''sunshine policy'' of engagement in the late 1990's, the South Korean government highlighted the North's human rights violations. The Korean Central Intelligence Agency debriefed North Korean defectors and urged some to transform their statements into books. 
 One such account became ''The Aquariums of Pyongyang: Ten Years in the North Korean Gulag,'' a memoir by Kang Chol Hwan, a defector who was invited to meet President Bush in the White House last year. Mr. Kang, who has said that intermediaries connected with the intelligence agency helped him publish his memoir after he arrived here in 1992, is a co-chairman of NK Gulag, which is supported by the National Endowment for Democracy.
 Against this political backdrop, it is an open secret that some North Korean defectors, and their backers, exaggerate their experiences in North Korea. 
 ''They exaggerate their stories for money and fame,'' said the Rev. Joseph Park, the Christian Council of Korea's mission director. ''They say that they were political prisoners when they were ordinary prisoners, or that they saw something they only heard about.''
 Critics also say that some Christians, while professing their commitment to human rights in the North, are actually endangering the lives of North Koreans through their evangelizing. 
 The Rev. Kim Tae Hyun, an official with the National Council of Churches in Korea, which supports the South Korean government's low-key approach on human rights in North Korea, criticizes missionaries who send North Koreans living in China back into the North to proselytize secretly. ''They are putting the defectors at great risk,'' Mr. Kim said. 
 Durihana, a South Korean missionary group that is also increasing its lobbying in the United States, engages in the practice.
 ''We don't force them to go back,'' said Chun Ki Won, 50, Durihana's director. ''We send only volunteers.''
 Mr. Chun did not deny that he and others might have other goals in emphasizing human rights in the North. 
 ''The U.S. may be using human rights to have leverage in the nuclear negotiations,'' he said. ''But whether it's political or not, there is the reality that there are executions and human rights violations in North Korea, and we can't forget that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kim Tae Jin, right, is a co-chairman of NK Gulag, a human rights organization in Seoul.
 Posters on human rights abuses in North Korea on display at the Full Gospel Inchon Church in Inchon, South Korea. (Photographs by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); RELIGION (95%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); PRISONS (78%); TORTURE (76%); POLITICS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; Christians and Christianity ; Missionaries

ORGANIZATION: NK Gulag (Orgn)

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi; Kim Tae Jin

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%) North Korea; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



513 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Will Fight for Oil

BYLINE: By Ted Koppel. 
Ted Koppel, who retired as anchor and managing editor of the ABC program ''Nightline'' in November, is a contributing columnist for The Times and managing editor of the Discovery Channel.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
The American people know the difference between honest critics who question the way the war is being prosecuted and partisan critics who claim that we acted in Iraq because of oil, or because of Israel, or because we misled the American people. 
 -- President Bush, Jan. 10
 
 Let us, as lawyers say, stipulate that the Bush administration was genuinely concerned that weapons of mass destruction, which they firmly believed to be in Saddam Hussein's arsenal, might be shared with the same Qaeda leadership that planned the horrific events of 9/11. That would have been a reasonable motive for invading Iraq; but surely now, three years later, when the existence of those weapons is no longer an issue, it would be insufficient reason for the United States to remain there.
Let us further acknowledge that continuing to put American lives at risk in Iraq purely for the protection of Israel would arouse, in some quarters, anti-Semitic murmurs, if not growls. 
 But the Bush administration's touchiness about charges that we acted -- and are still acting -- in Iraq ''because of oil''? Now that's curious. Keeping oil flowing out of the Persian Gulf and through the Strait of Hormuz has been bedrock American foreign policy for more than a half-century. 
 Fifty-three years ago, British and American intelligence officers conspired to help bring about the overthrow of Iran's prime minister, Mohammed Mossadegh. Mossadegh's shortcomings, in the eyes of Whitehall and the State Department, were an unseemly affinity for the Tudeh Party (the Iranian Communists) and his plans to nationalize the Iranian oil industry. The prospect of the British oil industry being forced to give way to Soviet influence over the Iranian oil spigot called for drastic action. Following a military coup, Mossadegh was arrested, imprisoned for three years and then held under house arrest until his death in 1967. Power was then effectively concentrated in the hands of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi.
 The shah's unswerving commitment to the free flow and marketing of Iranian oil would, by the end of the 1960's, become a central pillar of the so-called Nixon Doctrine, in which American allies were tapped to be regional surrogates to maintain peace and security. The sales of sophisticated American weapons to Iran served the twin purposes of sopping up billions of what came to be known as ''petro-dollars,'' while equipping (in particular) the shah's air force.
 That reliance on Iran to maintain stability in the Persian Gulf enjoyed bipartisan support. On New Year's Eve in 1977, President Jimmy Carter, visiting the shah in Tehran, toasted his great leadership, which he said had made Iran ''an island of stability in one of the more troubled areas in the world.'' By January 1980, after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini had driven the shah from the Peacock Throne, President Carter made absolutely clear in his final State of the Union address that one aspect of our foreign policy remained unchanged:
 ''An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States of America, and such an assault will be repelled by any means necessary, including military force.''
 The Reagan administration announced its intention to continue defending the free flow of Middle East oil, by whatever means necessary. In March 1981, Defense Secretary Casper Weinberger clearly signaled that the United States was seeking a new base of operations in the Persian Gulf:
 ''We need some facilities and additional men and materiel there or nearby, to act as a deterrent to any Soviet hopes of seizing the oil fields or interdicting the line.''
 Subsequently, the United States began establishing military bases in Saudi Arabia and, to much criticism, selling Awacs aircraft to the Saudi government. In 1990, when Saddam Hussein appeared likely to follow his invasion of Kuwait by crossing into Saudi Arabia, the defense secretary at the time, Dick Cheney, laid out Washington's concerns:
 ''We're there because the fact of the matter is that part of the world controls the world supply of oil, and whoever controls the supply of oil, especially if it were a man like Saddam Hussein, with a large army and sophisticated weapons, would have a stranglehold on the American economy and on -- indeed on the world economy.''
 What Mr. Cheney said was correct then and remains correct now. The world's oil producers pump approximately 80 million barrels a day. The world's oil consumers, joined today by an increasingly oil-hungry India and China, purchase 80 million barrels a day. Were production from the Persian Gulf to be disrupted because of civil war in Iraq, the freezing of Iranian sales or political instability in Saudi Arabia, the global supply would be diminished. The impact on the American economy and, indeed, on the world economy would be as devastating today as in 1990.
 If those considerations did not enter into the Bush administration's calculations when the president ordered the invasion of Iraq in 2003, it would have been the first time in more than 50 years that the uninterrupted flow of Persian Gulf oil was not a central element of American foreign policy. 
 That is not to say that the United States invaded Iraq to take over its oil supply. But the construction of American military bases inside Iraq, bases that can be maintained long after the bulk of our military forces are ultimately withdrawn, will serve to replace the bases that the United States has lost in Saudi Arabia. There may be other national security reasons that the United States cannot now precipitously withdraw its forces from Iraq, including the danger that the country would become a regional terrorist base; but none is greater than forestalling the ensuing power vacuum and regional instability, and the impact this would have on oil production.
 H. L. Mencken is said to have noted that ''when someone says it's not about the money -- it's about the money.'' Arguing in support of his fellow Arkansan during Bill Clinton's impeachment trial, former Senator Dale Bumpers offered a variation on that theme: ''When someone says it's not about the sex -- it's about the sex.''
 Perhaps the day will come when the United States is no longer addicted to imported oil; but that day is still many years off. For now, the reason for America's rapt attention to the security of the Persian Gulf is what it has always been. It's about the oil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); ARMED FORCES (85%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); COUPS (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSPIRACY (72%); ARRESTS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); HOUSE ARREST (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Military Bases and Installations

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); JIMMY CARTER (57%) Ted Koppel; George W (Pres) Bush; George (Former Pres) Bush; Jimmy Carter; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan; Richard Milhous (1913-94) Nixon

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (69%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN (69%) Iraq; Persian Gulf

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



514 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: Loan Buyer Accounting Is Faulted

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and ERIC DASH; Stephen Labaton reported from Washington for this article and Eric Dash from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
An internal investigation has uncovered new evidence that senior executives of Fannie Mae, the largest buyer of American home mortgages, manipulated its accounting in the 1990's to meet earnings projections so that top executives could receive more than $27 million in bonuses. 
 In a 616-page report that was released Thursday, former Senator Warren Rudman and a team of lawyers and investigators concluded after an 18-month review that Fannie Mae's accounting practices ''in virtually all of the areas that we reviewed were not consistent with'' generally accepted accounting principles.
The report, a humbling moment for the political and financial giant, is certain to deepen the political divide in Washington over Fannie Mae, which was created by Congress during the Depression to make home ownership more affordable. 
 On Thursday, administration officials, some members of Congress and rival businesses said the report showed the need to strengthen oversight of Fannie Mae and limit its size. But the company's supporters in the housing industry and elsewhere said that the report only highlighted the changes that have taken place under its new management. 
 The findings come as Fannie Mae's regulator considers whether to force some former executives to return bonuses. And the report will not be the final word on the scandal: the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission are still investigating former executives. 
 Fannie Mae was run with ''an attitude of arrogance,'' according to the report, which catalogs how the company violated accounting principles repeatedly to show stable earnings and less volatility. But the most troubling finding was that the company, rattled by falling interest rates in 1998, improperly delayed taking nearly $200 million in expenses.
 That move and other, smaller accounting steps let it meet earnings goals, enabling executives -- including Franklin D. Raines, then the chief executive-designate, and James A. Johnson, the chief executive -- to receive the maximum amount in bonuses for that year.
 The report, which was commissioned by Fannie Mae's directors in 2004 after the company was accused by its main regulator of violating accounting rules, laid the responsibility for many of the violations on two former top executives: the chief financial officer, J. Timothy Howard, and the controller, Leanne Spencer. It found that Mr. Raines, a former chairman and chief executive who had served as a top official in the Clinton administration, ''contributed to a culture that improperly stressed stable earnings growth.'' 
 The report concluded that employees who held vital accounting and financial reporting jobs were ''either unqualified for their positions, did not understand their roles, or failed to carry out their roles properly.'' And it found that management repeatedly presented directors with information that ''generally was incomplete and, at times, misleading.''
 Mr. Raines was ousted from the company in December 2004 after the Securities and Exchange Commission concluded that Fannie Mae had violated accounting rules.
 Robert B. Barnett, a lawyer representing Mr. Raines, said Mr. Raines had fully cooperated with the inquiry and was satisfied with the report's conclusions that he did not know that the accounting had violated rules.
 ''We were disappointed with the report's characterization of Mr. Raines's role in the culture of Fannie Mae,'' Mr. Barnett said. ''Throughout his tenure, Mr. Raines sought to create a leadership culture that focused on openness and good governance.''
 Steven M. Salky, a lawyer for Mr. Howard, said the report mischaracterized Mr. Howard's ''motives and conduct.'' He said his client acted ''with the highest standards of integrity and in the best interests of shareholders.'' 
 Ms. Spencer's lawyer, David S. Krakoff, disputed that his client had done anything improper. ''The complex accounting judgments were the products of widespread consensus based on the advice of internal experts and the review of external auditors,'' he said.
 The report comes as Fannie Mae continues to struggle through the accounting scandal. The company has not filed an earnings statement since 2004. Later this year, it is expected to make a $11 billion restatement of its earnings going back to 2001. Still, shares of Fannie Mae rose 2.2 percent on Thursday amid relief that the report had concluded that many of the accounting and management problems were being resolved. 
 The company's main regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, is preparing a report to be issued in the next few months. And Congress, with the urging of the Bush administration, has been preparing legislation that could restrict Fannie Mae and set up a more aggressive oversight agency.
 Senator Richard Shelby, the Alabama Republican who heads the Senate Banking Committee, said the report ''describes a corporate culture at Fannie Mae that put earnings ahead of any other consideration.''
 Mr. Shelby's legislation would set up a more aggressive regulatory regime and sharply limit Fannie Mae's business. It was approved on a party line vote by the Banking Committee last July and has run into resistance from Democrats and industry allies of Fannie Mae. The House of Representatives adopted a less restrictive measure four months ago.
 Randy Quarles, a Treasury under secretary, said the Rudman report exposed ''earnings manipulation and a culture of earnings at any cost, and showed that the enterprise was not focused on its core housing mission.''
 While he said the company had made significant progress in cleaning up its accounting and governance structure, it had not reduced the systemic risks posed to the economy by lax rules that enable the company to amass a huge investment portfolio. Fannie Mae and its smaller sibling, Freddie Mac, hold a combined portfolio of about $1.5 trillion. 
 ''We may now have better accounting practices at the institution,'' Mr. Quarles said. ''But that doesn't reduce the risk associated with size of their portfolios.''
 Fannie Mae provides hundreds of billions of dollars to the home finance market yearly by buying mortgages from banks and savings associations. It keeps some mortgages in its portfolio. Others are repackaged and sold as mortgage-backed securities.
 The company has long been a powerful policy player on Capitol Hill and a lucrative landing spot for former government officials. 
 The report, whose preparation cost the company $60 million to $70 million, found that from 1998 to 2003, the company intentionally set low earnings targets in order to award large bonus and stock option awards.
 A central subject of the Rudman report was the company's effort in 1998 and 1999 to deal with the economic fallout of the Russian financial crisis, which caused interest rates in the United States to drop. 
 That decline prompted many homeowners to prepay then refinance mortgages, leading to an estimated new expense of about $440 million for Fannie Mae. Company officials decided, however, to take only a $240 million expense and defer the remaining $200 million, in violation of an accounting rule. 
 Regulators had said it had to be more than a coincidence that the deferral enabled the company to hit the earnings targets for maximum bonuses, but until the Rudman report, no evidence had surfaced that directly linked the two.
 Mr. Rudman said his team had not uncovered evidence that Mr. Raines deliberately embarked on a course of violating the accounting rules to win larger compensation, although the report found that Mr. Raines had met with Ms. Spencer and Mr. Howard in early 1999 to discuss the plan of deferring $200 million in expenses. 
 About five months before meeting with Ms. Spencer and Mr. Howard about the deferral, the report said, Mr. Raines got a memo from Lawrence M. Small, then the president and chief operating officer, that emphasized that reaching Wall Street's expectations was important for the bonus program, known as A.I.P., for annual incentive plan. The Wall Street forecast was for earnings of $3.21 a share in 1998 and $3.23 in 1999. 
 ''For 1998, I'm reasonably confident there's enough in the 'non-recurring earnings piggy bank' to get us to $3.21,'' Mr. Small wrote. ''While that number should satisfy investors, you should be aware that last year the A.I.P. paid out just short of the maximum. This year, the maximum is $3.23, so at $3.21, the bonus pool will be noticeably lower than in 1997, a fact which will, of course, be rapidly observed by officers and directors come January.''
 The report said that the $200 million deferral in expenses was slightly below the target for maximum bonuses, since it raised earnings per share to $3.2285, and the bonus program was based on a calculation of earnings of more than $3.23. 
 To get to the higher figure, the report said, management decided to take two more steps: change accounting of low-income housing tax credits and reverse about $3.9 million from an account for unreconciled items into profit as ''miscellaneous income.'' The moves bumped earnings per share to $3.2309.
 In Congressional testimony and other public statements, Mr. Raines and Mr. Howard denied any connection between the accounting in the 1990's and the attempt to meet earnings estimates to satisfy requirements of the bonus program. 
 But among the documents uncovered by Mr. Rudman's team was a schedule prepared by Ms. Spencer. The document, which Mr. Rudman said in an interview was the closest thing to a smoking gun, was found when investigators raided Ms. Spencer's office last spring while she was not present. 
 It set out different earnings projections based expense deferrals that described a plan, ultimately accepted by management, to defer nearly $200 million in expenses to meet earnings projections. After her office was raided, Ms. Spencer declined to answer more questions from Mr. Rudman's team.
 Mr. Krakoff, Ms. Spencer's lawyer, said she had ''met repeatedly with investigators and made every document available to them.''
 ''She should not, now, be blamed for the investigation's own failure to collect the document sooner.''
 Mr. Rudman said Mr. Raines had said he had no recollection of seeing the document.

 Annual incentive plan/bonus: $1,109,589

POSITION IN 1998
Lawrence M. Small: President and chief operating officer
Former official of Citicorp, now secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

1998 SALARY AND BONUS
Salary: $783,839
Annual incentive plan/bonus: $1,108,259

POSITION IN 1998
Jamie Gorelick: Vice chairwoman
Deputy attorney general under President Clinton and a member of the Sept. 11 Commission; now a partner at Wilmer Cutler Pickering.

1998 SALARY AND BONUS
Salary: $567,000
Annual incentive plan/bonus: $779,625

POSITION IN 1998
J. Timothy Howard: Executive vice president and chief financial officer
Forced to resign in December 2004.

1998 SALARY AND BONUS
Salary: $395,000
Annual incentive plan/bonus: $493,750

POSITION IN 1998
Robert J. Levin: Executive vice president, housing and community development
Remains at Fannie Mae as chief business officer, a new position overseeing and integrating the company's three main businesses.

1998 SALARY AND BONUS
Salary: $395,000
Annual incentive plan/bonus: $493,750

* Mr. Raines was hired in 1998 to succeed Mr. Johnson. Their tenures overlapped for part of the year.

(Source by 2004 Ofheo special examination report)(pg. C6)

GRAPHIC: Photos (pg. C6)Chart: ''Beneficiaries of Bigger Bonuses''While the Rudman report found that ''management's desire'' to meet 1998 earnings and bonus targets led to controversial accounting adjustment, it blamed J. Timothy Howard, Fannie Mae's former chief financial officer, and Leanne Spencer, the former controller. But other Fannie Mae executives at the time benefited from the bonus payouts, including some major Washington power players.POSITION IN 1998James A. Johnson*: Chairman and chief executiveCampaign adviser to Walter Mondale and an adviser to John Kerry. Now vice chairman of Perseus, a private equity firm.1998 SALARY AND BONUSSalary: $966,000Annual incentive plan/bonus: $1,932,000POSITION IN 1998Franklin D. Raines*: Chairman and chief executiveDirector of the Office of Management and Budget during Clinton administration. Now an investor in a group trying to buy the Washington Nationals, and a Revolution Healthcare board member.1998 SALARY AND BONUSSalary: $526,154

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SCANDALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); ETHICS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BASEBALL (71%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Bonuses; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Fannie Mae; Fannie Mae

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Warren Rudman; J Timothy Howard; Leanne G Spencer; George W (Pres) Bush; Stephen Labaton; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



515 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; LISTENING WITH: ANDREW HILL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2044 words

HEADLINE: A Jazzman's Lifelong Search For the Melody in Rhythm

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
IN his precocious early days, the jazz pianist Andrew Hill traveled to Detroit from Chicago to play with Charlie Parker. It was a gig with a pickup band; Parker had called the players to back him up for a dance job at the Greystone Ballroom. From that first encounter with Parker, Mr. Hill ended up with more than a line on his resume.
 Mr. Hill's memory has been spotty about when this happened -- in the past he has said 1948, or 1952. But Parker's movements are roughly trackable, and there are eyewitnesses; the pianist Barry Harris was there that night. All seem to agree that it was probably April 1954. Mr. Hill would have been 16.
In any case, he and Parker spoke a little, and Parker told him this: ''I look at melody as rhythm.'' It was a stray comment, but for Mr. Hill it led to a long preoccupation. 
 As a jazz composer, Andrew Hill is as original as they come. From the start he has had only a modest following. He arrived in New York in 1960, to join Roland Kirk's group. When he started making his own records for Blue Note a few years later, he didn't make a great public splash, as Ornette Coleman had in 1959, or even keep a working band to establish a presence in the clubs. Instead, he played the college circuit, taught and applied for arts grants. At one point, in a 1966 interview in Down Beat, he encouraged each of his listeners to send him a dollar. 
 His work is dense and knotty and difficult to play, but much of it is beautiful, aerated with song. In ''Time Lines,'' his new record for Blue Note, commanding rhythms keep rising out of the stop-start melodic phrases; with pecking repetitions at the piano, Mr. Hill elongates the phrases at will. Like Thelonious Monk, he can make his music sound as if its composed parts are improvised and its improvised sections are composed. And like Monk's, his music is a balanced equation, with melody embedded in harmony and overlapping rhythms swimming in agreement. It has a mysteriously powerful internal integrity.
 Slight and kindly, with soft eyes and Old World manners, Mr. Hill delivers his ideas in bursts of information, often ending in a rising tone, like a question. He has a stutter -- it is in his style of playing piano as well -- and the way he phrases stories about his life, or his responses to music, leaves them open to interpretation. 
 ''Am I confusing you?'' he asked during a recent afternoon of listening to music and talking about what he heard. ''Is the truth confusing?''
 We met at his well-kept Victorian brownstone in Jersey City, with elegant old furniture in a front living room and a baby grand piano in the back; a book of sheet music for Bach's preludes and fugues lay open on it. He and his wife, Joanne Robinson Hill, director of education at the Joyce Theater for dance in New York, have been there since 2000, a little while after he returned from a long sojourn on the West Coast. His first wife, Laverne, died in California in 1989; after that, until 1996, he taught at Portland State University in Oregon, where he met Joanne.
 Mr. Hill has been undergoing treatments for lung cancer recently. He looked tired but peaceful. (''You're normally only as good as you think, anyway,'' he said. ''That's all there is.'') We sat in his front room, listening to and talking about some of the music he knows best. He kept coming around to his gratitude that people have cared about his own work for so long. 
 Born in 1937, Mr. Hill grew up on Chicago's South Side. He is reluctant to say more about his parents than that they were ''part of the struggling environment for their generation'' and did not block his path as a musician. From ages 3 to 7, he said, he was in a state he describes as semi-autistic: he did not respond adequately in social situations. ''I wasn't ready to accept my socio-economic position,'' he explained. 
 He evolved, he said, by playing music. He started on a child's accordion, graduating to a proper button accordion at 7, and taught himself piano at 10 from the player piano in his home. He balanced his high school work with extra classes for gifted students at the University of Chicago's lab school and played accordion on the street for extra money; he positioned himself at the center of black Chicago night life, 47th Street and South Parkway, near the Regal Theater and the Savoy Ballroom.
 Mr. Hill grew up when bebop was popular, and he played it in the company of the best. Then, in the 60's, he stood on the periphery of a self-conscious vanguard that pushed jazz toward art music and social reform. When he first arrived in New York, he was not identifiable as either inside or outside the jazz mainstream. He still isn't. That worked against him for at least 30 years, but now history is on his side. Jazz musicians have been bending the loose ends of history toward each other, making sense of the fractures between tradition and innovation or coming to understand that they may be illusory. 
 ''Time Lines'' marks the third time Mr. Hill has been signed to Blue Note in 42 years (the first two were 1963-70 and 1989-90). He recorded five albums in his first eight months with the label (including ''Black Fire,'' ''Smokestack'' and ''Point of Departure,'' three of the great records of 1960's jazz) and 19 in all from 1963 to 1970, too much for the market to bear; only eight were released at the time. Over the past five years, every last scrap of it has been issued. In all, Mr. Hill seems to have won.
 His first choice of music to listen to during my visit was Charlie Parker's most famous blues, ''Now's the Time,'' from 1945. He calls it ''the perfect record.'' 
 Mr. Hill understood Parker's comment about melody as rhythm as a refutation of the ''Eurocentric'' music education he had grown up with -- where melody is paramount, harmony accompanies it and rhythm is the last part to worry about. ''It opened my mind up to many possibilities,'' he said. ''If everything is rhythm, then you just have these rhythms on top of each other. But they're not polyrhythms or pyramids of rhythm: they're crossing rhythms.'' 
 ''Now's the Time'' is driven by a short, syncopated melody with a strong rhythm, putting down a bounce in almost every beat. ''In that period, one could pretend that one could hear,'' Mr. Hill said. ''You didn't have to read it to understand it. It was all around you. And I guess because it had a blues sensibility, it was inclusive of more people.'' 
 I said that given his interest in this idea of melody as rhythm, I thought he would have suggested a bebop tune with a more complicatedly rhythmic line, like Miles Davis's ''Donna Lee.'' 
 ''There was something lovely about hearing those fast tempos,'' he replied, ''like 'Donna Lee' or '52nd Street Theme.' But with the blues, one doesn't have to be a space scientist to get the harmony. 'Donna Lee' has more changes -- bringing you in more than letting you out.''
 ''And then there are the parts between the drums and the saxophones,'' he said as an afterthought. ''Through the years, I've always said to myself that when the drums and the saxophone play together, that's a dance, which is an aspect of melody as rhythm. Mm?''
 Next on his list was ''Blue Rondo a la Turk,'' from Dave Brubeck's fluke-hit 1959 album, ''Time Out.'' The song is famous for its meter shifts: it flicks between a fast 9/8 and an easy, midtempo 4/4 swing, though it doesn't try to make them flow into each other. 
 ''I keep hearing the different rhythm-melodies,'' Mr. Hill said as the song played. ''The rhythm-melody that the drummer plays, for example. But this also represents when people weren't as comfortable playing rhythms like that'' -- he meant the 9/8 -- ''all the way through numbers, as they are now.''
 With pieces like this, Brubeck made jazz seem sensible for many who came to it cold; it's a playful piece of music, and very schematic. He phrased almost right on the beat, and kept swing roped off in the song's four-four section. When Mr. Hill plays, on the other hand, he moves around the beat, never playing on it, and not consistently behind it or ahead of it, either.
 ''Yes, peaceful coexistence,'' Mr. Hill said when I brought up his relation to the beat. ''It's always been like that.'' 
 The next piece was ''As Long as You're Living,'' by the Max Roach Plus Four group. Recorded in 1959, it is a blues in 5/4 time, like Brubeck's ''Take Five.'' (Playing jazz in five was new then. Mr. Roach was said to be irritated at Mercury, his label, for withholding the release of ''As Long as You're Living'' until after ''Take Five'' became a hit.) 
 It's a little masterpiece, sleek and grooving, with all the solemn bravado of Mr. Roach's music in that period. And the Roach band demonstrates that a five-beat rhythm can be swung as fluidly as the usual 4/4. ''It shows the progression of how people become more comfortable with this rhythm,'' Mr. Hill said. ''With 'Blue Rondo a la Turk,' one is disappointed that they don't continue the rhythm through the number. But here they do, and they have it down like a four.'' 
 For the last piece of the afternoon, Mr. Hill got away from time signatures and back to his youth. He picked a solo piano piece by Earl Hines, the standard ''Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams,'' recorded in 1974 at a private party in California. 
 ''He was a very nice man,'' Mr. Hill said of Hines. ''When I met him, I was 8 or 9. He played at this club, the Grand Terrace Ballroom, and he had a penthouse in the hotel where the lounge was on the bottom floor.'' 
 ''I was his paperboy,'' Mr. Hill said with a high-pitched laugh. ''The Chicago Tribune.''
 Hines thought fast and broadly through a performance like this. He keeps inserting new rhythms and rubato sections; the performance becomes free-associative. It has sweeping two-handed runs in it, the kind of thing Art Tatum liked to do, and it also rewrites the song in real time.
 This was an example, Mr. Hill noted, of what jazz virtuosos like Hines called ''concertizing'' -- making concert-hall fantasias of tunes, often by themselves in nightclubs. ''You know,'' he said, ''Benny Goodman took his band to Carnegie Hall. But black musicians at the time started consciously elaborating on melodies in a different way. They'd take it over the bar lines, or do whatever.''
 It's not so much that Hines is implying ''this is the straight part'' and ''this is where I'm stretching it'' and ''now I go back to the straight part,'' I said. It's all mixed together, all the way through. 
 ''What impressed me about him the most was that he enjoyed himself,'' Mr. Hill responded. ''He was successful, and the people were with him. When a person has a message for the people, he's usually heard and well taken care of. The rest is what they think of themselves. You know, like Charlie Parker -- people loved him. They treated him so much better than he treated himself. I mean, it's such a big honor to have people support you. That's quite a bit.''

Hearing It

Andrew Hill and his quintet (Charles Tolliver, trumpet; Greg Tardy, saxophone and clarinet; John Hebert, bass; Eric McPherson, drums) play at 9 and 11 p.m. Wednesday through March 4 at Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum.

Recordings that Mr. Hill chose to listen to for this article:

Dave Brubeck ''Blue Rondo a la Turk,'' from ''Time Out'' (Sony Legacy, $11.98).

Earl Hines ''Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams (and Dream Your Troubles Away),'' from ''Solo Piano'' (LaserLight, $5.98).

Charlie Parker ''Now's the Time,'' from ''The Genius of Charlie Parker'' (Savoy Jazz, $18.98).

Max Roach Plus Four ''As Long as You're Living,'' from ''The Complete Mercury Max Roach Plus Four Sessions'' (Mosaic, $112).

Recordings by Andrew Hill recommended by Ben Ratliff:

'Black Fire' (Blue Note) Mr. Hill's first recording for Blue Note, from 1963, with Joe Henderson, Richard Davis and Roy Haynes.

'Point of Departure' (Blue Note) The most imposing of Mr. Hill's records, from 1964, right on the knife edge of older and newer models of jazz; with Kenny Dorham, Eric Dolphy, Joe Henderson, Richard Davis and Anthony Williams.

'Time Lines' (Blue Note) Mr. Hill's new album, with a cross-generational band (including his late-60's band mate Charles Tolliver) and his best in decades.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew Hill, above at his home in Jersey City, and below in the studio in March 1964. (Photo by Eric Johnson for The New York Times)
(Photo by Francis Wolff/Mosaic Images)(pg. E1)
The jazz pianist Andrew Hill, above at his home in Jersey City and left at a 1999 concert at City College in New York called ''Pianos for Ellington.'' (Photo by Eric Johnson for The New York Times)
(Photo by $
1999 Jack Vartoogian/FrontRowPhotos)(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%) Music; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Biographical Information

PERSON: Ben Ratliff; Andrew Hill

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



516 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Europe Rejects Genetically Engineered Drug 

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
European regulators declined yesterday to approve what would have been the first drug produced in the milk of genetically engineered animals, dealing a setback to a fledgling industry that aims to convert cows, goats and rabbits into low-cost pharmaceutical factories.
 The decision was closely watched because companies developing drug-producing animals need an approval from either the United States or Europe to persuade pharmaceutical companies to try the production method. 
The drug's developer, GTC Biotherapeutics, said it would appeal the decision, adding that the ruling was based mainly on a problem with its clinical trial, not on the fact that the drug was made in goats. 
 ''With a new technology there is a conservatism that is not inappropriate,'' Geoffrey F. Cox, chief executive of GTC, said in a conference call with analysts. But he added, ''There is no way with this company and what we have achieved over 15 years that we will let this block us from getting the product to market.'' 
 Shares of GTC, which is based in Framingham, Mass., fell 90 cents, or 40 percent, to $1.35. 
 GTC and a few other companies put human genes into animals so they produce a human protein in their milk. The animals can be milked and the protein purified for use as a drug. 
 The companies say the method is a cheaper and easier way to produce biotechnology drugs. Many biotech drugs, like cancer-fighting monoclonal antibodies, are made in vats containing cultures of genetically engineered animal cells. Such factories can cost several hundred million dollars. 
 Other protein drugs, like the one GTC is developing, are extracted from donated blood, but are found in such minute quantities that they are often in short supply. GTC said it would take 90,000 blood donations to obtain as much of the protein as one of its goats can produce in a year. 
 But drug companies have been reluctant to use the technology, in part because they were unsure how readily regulators would approve drugs developed that way. So GTC decided to seek an approval by itself, even if sales of the drug would be small. 
 It tested an anticlotting protein called antithrombin on patients who have a rare inherited deficiency of the protein and are at risk of potentially fatal blood clots. The company tested the drug on 14 people who were undergoing surgery or giving birth. At those times, because of the risk of bleeding, such patients cannot take the blood thinners they usually use to prevent clots. 
 The European Medicines Agency said yesterday that its advisory committee recommended against approval because too few patients undergoing surgery were tested. Also, the drug tested was not made in exactly the same way as the drug that would be sold, because a filtration step was added after the trial began. 
 GTC executives said the committee decided not to count pregnant women included in the test, because the dosing of the drug was not optimal. They also said the regulators had concerns about possible immune reactions to the drug, though none were seen. 
 The company is doing another trial aimed at applying early next year for approval in the United States. 
 Another company, Pharming, has asked the Food and Drug Administration to certify its human lactoferrin protein, made in transgenic cows, as ''generally recognized as safe.'' That designation would allow Pharming to sell the protein for use in food products. Human lactoferrin is naturally found in mother's milk. 
 Pharming, a Dutch company that has recovered from a financial collapse a few years ago, is also in late-stage clinical trials of a protein called C1 inhibitor, produced in rabbits, to treat hereditary angioedema.
 PharmAthene, based in Annapolis, Md., is trying to win a contract from the Defense Department to supply a protein, butyrylcholinesterase, to help treat people exposed to nerve gas. The protein is found in blood plasma but in such small amounts it would be impossible to make as much as the military needs, the company said. 
 ''It would take approximately 500 liters of plasma to produce a single dose,'' the company's director for education, Stacey Jurchison, said. ''We have about 250 goats. The milk they would produce in a year's time would be sufficient to produce 100,000 doses.''
 Production of drugs in transgenic animals is not the only part of barnyard biotechnology that has suffered setbacks. So has cloning, which involves making copies of desirable animals, rather than putting foreign genes in them. The F.D.A. has continually put off making an expected decision that the meat and milk from cloned animals and their offspring are safe to consume.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (95%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ANTICOAGULANTS (89%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (87%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (75%); CANCER (73%); BIOLOGY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BLOOD BANKS (68%); BLOOD DONATIONS (68%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (67%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); BLOOD DISORDERS (58%); CONSERVATISM (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Animals; Genetics and Heredity; Tests and Testing; Research; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: REVO BIOLOGICS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; GTC Biotherapeutics

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



517 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: The New CBS Loses $9 Billion,But Wall Street Seems Unfazed 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The CBS Corporation, created in the split of Viacom, posted a fourth-quarter loss of $9.14 billion yesterday after lowering the value of television and radio assets to reflect slower advertising growth. Still, the results were less gloomy than analysts had forecast. 
 A write-down of $9.5 billion brought to more than $27 billion the amount cut from asset values in the last two years. In 2000 and 2001, the company paid more than $60 billion for radio and TV networks that it now values at less than $30 billion.
 ''This officially recognizes what the market has already stated,'' said Fred Moran, an analyst with the Stanford Financial Group in Boca Raton, Fla. ''Traditional broadcasting assets are worth less than they were a few years ago.'' Mr. Moran has a buy rating on the shares but does not own any himself.
 CBS, in its first earnings release since splitting from Viacom on Dec. 31, reported results as if it had been a separate company in the fourth quarter and the quarter a year earlier. The earlier loss was $18.4 billion.
 The new Viacom, reporting on a similar basis, said yesterday that its fourth-quarter profit fell 67 percent after losses at the Paramount Pictures division.
 Revenue at the new Viacom rose 8.8 percent in the quarter; at CBS, it increased 2.1 percent.
 In trading yesterday, the Class B shares of CBS fell 3 cents, to $25.20. 
 The write-down lowered the value of CBS television assets by $6.4 billion and those of the radio unit by $3.05 billion. On a per-share basis, that was equivalent to $5.99. A year earlier, CBS reduced the value of its radio and outdoor advertising units by $18 billion.
 The company forecast low single-digit percentage growth in revenue and single-digit growth in operating income this year. The forecast was based on 2005 revenue of $14.5 billion and pro forma operating income of $2.7 billion, it said. CBS hopes to counter the effect of sluggish broadcast advertising with revenue from Web sites and the sale of TV programs on hand-held devices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Company Reports

COMPANY: CBS CORP (96%); VIACOM INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Cbs Corp; Viacom Inc

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (96%); VIA (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (96%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



518 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: The Globe Is Warming. Why Aren't We Marching?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Glaciers Flow to Sea at a Faster Pace, Study Says'' (news article, Feb. 17): The world we have known is history. A mere 1 degree Fahrenheit global average warming is already raising sea levels, strengthening hurricanes, disrupting ecosystems, threatening parks and protected areas, causing droughts and heat waves, melting the Arctic and glaciers everywhere and killing tens of thousands of people a year. 
Yet there are several more degrees coming in our grandchildren's lifetimes. 
 It is easy to feel like a character in a bad science fiction novel running down the street shouting ''Don't you see it!'' while life goes on, business as usual. 
 Climate change is the biggest thing to happen here on earth in thousands of years, with incalculable environmental, social and economic costs. But there is no march on Washington; students are not in the streets; consumers are not rejecting destructive lifestyles; Congress is not passing far-reaching legislation; the president is not on television explaining the threat to the country; Exxon is not quaking in its boots; and entire segments of evening news pass without mention of the climate emergency. 
 Instead, 129 new coal-fired power plants are being developed in the United States alone, and so on.
 There are many of us caught in this story. We must find one another soon.

James Gustave Speth
New Haven, Feb. 20, 2006

The writer, dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, was administrator of the United Nations Development Program, 1993-99.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); WRITERS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); WEATHER (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (66%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (55%); GRANDCHILDREN (55%) Weather; Global Warming

PERSON: James Gustave Speth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%) CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



519 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Pay Big Employers Billions Not to End Their Retiree Health Plans 

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
America's largest companies expect the federal government to pay them about $4 billion over the next four years to help keep their retiree health plans alive at a time when such benefits are increasingly on the chopping block, according to a new study by Credit Suisse First Boston.
 The money is due to start flowing to employers this month as part of Medicare's new prescription drug benefit. When Congress authorized the Medicare drug benefit, it also agreed to start subsidizing the drug component of employers' retiree health plans, to keep them from shifting their retirees into the government program. 
The goal is to save the government money, even after the subsidies, while giving the retirees a better deal than they might get if they were pushed into Medicare. 
 Among the nation's 500 largest companies, 331 offer retiree health plans.
 With the program just starting its first year, it is not yet clear whether the subsidy will achieve its goals. For one thing, there are about 36 million people 65 and older in this country who are eligible for Medicare, but only about 7 million retirees currently covered by employer-sponsored health plans. Still, the Credit Suisse study, published on Wednesday, shows that the subsidy is popular with big employers -- even those that do not fit the stereotype of companies in waning industries unable to cope with health care inflation and armies of baby-boomer retirees. 
 The money, to be sure, will flow to some financially weaker companies staggering under the weight of their health plans, like General Motors, which is expected to receive $1.1 billion over the next four years in drug subsidies for their retired workers.
 But there are also thriving businesses like the utility company Exelon, which seem able to afford their plans on their own but will nonetheless receive the federal payouts. 
 There are companies, too, like BellSouth, that have been setting aside money for retiree health care for years and have billions on hand.
 And some that have no reserves for those outlays, like Delta Air Lines, will also receive subsidies. 
 The government is not drawing distinctions because the subsidy is meant only to help employers stay in the retiree health care business, not to direct public funds to the neediest employers. 
 Mark Hamelburg, director of employer policy and operations at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the agency that runs Medicare, said, ''The whole purpose was to incentivize employers to keep providing the good level of coverage that they have had.'' So far, employers covering 6.4 million retirees have enrolled for the subsidy, he said. 
 To get the new subsidy, a company must offer retirees a prescription drug benefit that is at least as valuable as the minimum benefits now available under Medicare. Even though General Motors, 3M, Unocal, International Flavors and Fragrances and Avaya are among businesses that have limited or cut back their retiree health plans in recent years, the study showed, all still offer benefits generous enough to qualify for the subsidy.
 At the same time, the study found a few large companies that were expanding their retiree health plans, not cutting them. General Electric, for example, in 2003 increased its total obligations of this sort by about $2.5 billion, as part of a new labor agreement. The Medicare subsidy will offset some $583 million of that increase. 
 And BellSouth's commitments to retiree health care increased $3.3 billion in 2004, after auditors for the company required changes in the way it was accounting for the benefits. The Medicare subsidy will offset $1.1 billion of that.
 The Credit Suisse analysts who conducted the study, David Zion and Bill Carcache, prepared it to show investors how successful, or not, companies had been in shifting the cost of their retiree health plans onto other payers. 
 Companies that fear they have promised more benefits than they can deliver ''are actively trying to pass the buck,'' the analysts wrote. This means trying to shift costs ''to anyone who will bear them: their retirees, active workers, the U.S. taxpayer, etc..''
 ''If they succeed,'' the analysts added, ''it's a giant transfer of risk from corporate America to the work force, and retirees.''
 Instead of increasing corporate profits in a given year, the subsidies are supposed to free up cash that the company would otherwise have to spend on health care. Mr. Zion and Mr. Carcache said this effect would show up on corporate cash-flow statements. In the future, though, after the Financial Accounting Standards Board completes its current project on pension accounting, retiree medical plan activity might make its way onto corporate balance sheets.
 The company with by far the biggest retiree health plan is G.M. -- a plan so large that the $77 billion obligation constitutes 18 percent of the combined retiree health obligations of the nation's 500 largest companies. G.M. projects that it will make cash outlays of about $18 billion for retiree health care over the next four years. 
 Those projections were made before it negotiated a package of concessions with the United Auto Workers union in October, but a G.M. spokesman, Jerry Dubrowski, said newer projections were not available. He said the cutbacks were still being challenged in court by retirees, who argue that the union has no legal authority to negotiate for them, only for active workers. If the concessions are upheld, Mr. Dubrowski said, the retirees will still get a better deal under G.M.'s health plan than if they were pushed into Medicare. 
 ''This is an important first step in reforming the whole health care system,'' he added. 
 But the company that will get the biggest boost from Medicare on a percentage basis is not G.M., but Genuine Parts, a distributor of auto replacement parts and office products that has rising sales and profits, and a much smaller health plan. The subsidy, estimated at $6 million over the next four years, will reduce its overall health care obligations to retirees by 62 percent, the study found. 
 The Credit Suisse analysts found that the big companies, over the life of their retiree health plans, expected to receive about $25 billion from the federal subsidy arrangement.
 But Mr. Hamelburg of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said that companies' estimates did not capture the entire outlay expected because they did not include the substantial subsidies that would go to state and local governments that run retiree health plans. The government expects to pay all employers, private and public, about $14 billion over the next four years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (76%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicine and Health

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%); AVAYA INC (50%); INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES FRANCE (50%); INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse; Medicare

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%); DAL (NYSE) (52%); IFF (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



520 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Rethinking Need For Housing Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration announced plans yesterday to rethink the tax breaks that have been used to spur housing construction in the city for the past 35 years. The move implicitly acknowledges that in the current market, tax incentives may be needed less to get developers simply to build apartments than to build apartments New Yorkers can afford. 
 Laying out new details of his previously announced plan to build and preserve 165,000 units of low- and moderate-income housing by 2013, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said a new task force would re-examine the city's most popular tax incentive program, known as 421-a, said to have fueled the construction of more than 110,000 units since 1971. 
 As the economy has thrived and construction has boomed and housing prices have escalated, city officials and others have begun to question whether the city is unnecessarily passing up revenue, and whether its tax incentive programs should be aimed more at encouraging housing for working people and the middle class.
 ''Times have changed,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''and we need to change with them.''
 Under the 421-a program, most new housing in most neighborhoods is eligible for a 10-to-15-year exemption from property taxes. According to the Pratt Center for Community Development, the program costs the city $300 million a year in lost tax revenue, but only a small fraction of the units built are affordable to low- or moderate-income families. 
 Mr. Bloomberg also elaborated further on his $7.5 billion housing plan, which he called ''the largest municipal affordable housing plan in the nation's history.'' It aims to produce 92,000 new homes, many of them for middle-class New Yorkers, and preserve 73,000 existing, moderately priced units. 
 So far, Mr. Bloomberg said, the administration has financed 56,000 units.
 To find new land for moderately priced housing, the administration has begun working with agencies like the New York City Housing Authority and the Department of Transportation to build housing on their underused land. That way alone, he said, the administration hopes to produce 20,000 units by 2013.
 To generate housing for middle-class New Yorkers to keep them in the city, the administration is developing housing on housing authority land in West Chelsea and the Hudson Yards. Tino Hernandez, the chairman of the housing authority, said that development will produce 435 units by 2009.
 As part of the same middle-income housing initiative, the administration says it intends to use several financing plans to produce 22,000 homes for families making $50,000 to $100,000 a year. Those plans include creating a new housing development entity to extend the city's ability to use tax-exempt bonds. 
 The administration also intends to preserve about 250,000 moderately priced rental units that were built with the help of various federal, state and city subsidies; the owners of those buildings are becoming eligible to leave those programs and raise rents. With the help of refinancing, co-op conversions and other strategies, the administration hopes to keep the units moderately priced.
 ''We see affordable housing not just as something that needs to be done to serve the most vulnerable among us,'' said Shaun Donovan, commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''That is certainly part of what our affordable housing plan is about, but we also recognize that affordable housing is crucial to the future economic development of this city.''
 He said that the administration's plan ''is really about how do we make sure that we keep workers in this city'' who are crucial to its competitiveness. He added, ''It also recognizes that increasingly, in this new economy, the cities that will compete and win are cities that can build successful, mixed-income neighborhoods rather than the historic economic divide between city and suburb that we've seen.''
 The 421-a tax program applies to housing with three or more units, on sites that were vacant, underused, or used for a purpose inconsistent with the zoning. Under the tax incentive program, owners are exempt from paying any increase in property tax caused by the new construction. For rental properties, the rents must comply with the rent stabilization system; for condos and co-ops, there are no limits on prices.
 In the 1980's, the city modified the program by designating an ''exclusion zone'' in Manhattan from 14th Street to 96th Street in which developers could have the tax break only if they agreed to include some lower-priced units in their project or nearby. More recently, the city expanded the exclusion zone to include the area of the Brooklyn waterfront now being redeveloped.
 ''That opened up the whole question,'' said Frank Braconi, a member of the Mayor's task force and the executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council, a nonprofit policy research organization. ''If the exclusion zone can expand outside of core Manhattan to the boroughs, why Williamsburg and not Park Slope? What's the rationale for that?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCENTIVES (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); MAYORS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); HISTORY (73%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Pratt Center for Community Development

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Janny Scott; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



521 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Suggest Directing Aid to Abbas

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
The European Union is considering making direct payments to the moderate Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, as a way of supporting him while trying to maintain financial pressure on Hamas, the antiIsraeli militant group that swept to power in elections last month.
 The idea was raised this week by the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, after a conference call with other members of the so-called Quartet -- the United States, Russia and the United Nations -- that has been promoting peace efforts between Israel and the Palestinians. 
''We have to have a mechanism of financial support to President Abbas,'' Mr. Solana said. ''We have to find a way to finance him and his structures because of his responsibilities as president of the Palestinian Authority and as the primary interlocutor with the international community.''
 If accepted by fellow Quartet members, the channeling of payments directly to Mr. Abbas would be a reversal in policy, which until now has focused on strengthening Palestinian government institutions in preparation for an eventual Palestinian state. 
 In 2003, when Yasir Arafat still led the Palestinian Authority, the United States worked to wrest control of the purse strings from him and pushed for the creation of the position of prime minister to decentralize power and weaken the presidency.
 ''The general approach of trying to build up Abu Mazen's authority and resources to counter the power of the Hamas-led government is something that has been out there since the elections,'' said Martin Indyk, director of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution, using the name by which Mr. Abbas is informally known. 
 [A senior State Department official said Thursday that the United States had not seen Mr. Solana's proposal but that while European and American tactics might differ, their common approach in general would be to use their leverage to persuade Hamas to change its position. He said it was too soon to say if the idea of circumventing a Hamas-led government and aiding Mr. Abbas would accomplish that objective.]
 The prime minister's job was created for Mr. Abbas, who quit after only four months because Mr. Arafat refused to give up control of the Palestinian security forces. Now, with the post soon to be held by a Hamas leader, Ismail Haniya, Hamas is reminding Mr. Abbas of his own arguments for a powerful prime minister.
 Many Palestinians regard any effort to reconcentrate power as an effort to undermine their democratic choice. There are also other arguments against strengthening Mr. Abbas, since he accomplished little when Fatah was in power and the election has weakened his position.
 Nor is it clear that the United States would go along with such a plan. ''The devil is going to be in the details,'' Mr. Indyk said. ''It's one thing to provide funding to Abu Mazen, but if he is just a conduit of money to Hamas-led ministries, it's not something the United States is going to cooperate with.''
 The European Union began providing direct budgetary assistance to the Palestinian Authority in 2000 after Israel, trying to isolate Mr. Arafat, froze monthly transfers of tax and customs receipts collected on behalf of the Palestinians under an economic protocol signed in 1994. 
 Europe's direct payments -- which totaled more than $200 million from 2000 to 2002 -- led to the establishment of a World Bank-monitored trust fund, which is now used by most international donors to disburse funds to the fledgling Palestinian government in return for its willingness to meet certain standards of improved fiscal governance.
 One of the first benchmarks was the establishment of a single treasury account under the Palestinian Authority's Finance Ministry to increase openness and control over spending and take money away from Mr. Arafat's personal dominion.
 Directing payments to Mr. Abbas, even through the World Bank as the European Union is proposing, would undo those steps.
 But the Quartet is scrambling to find a way of continuing financial support for the Palestinian Authority without providing direct assistance to a Hamas-led government. Israel's refusal to continue transferring about $50 million in monthly tax and customs receipts to the authority and a vague offer by Iran to increase financial support have only increased the urgency, European officials say.
 While the Europeans and their Quartet partners have agreed to continue financial support until that government is formed in the coming weeks, all except money for private aid agencies is under review.
 European Union members provided about $600 million in aid to the Palestinians last year. More than half came from the European Union's budget. That money, half of which has been withheld because the Palestinian Authority has failed to honor its fiscal commitments, would probably stop unless it could be paid to Mr. Abbas's office or some other entity that is not under Hamas control.
 Much of the remainder has consisted of payments from individual member countries, including millions of dollars for the education and judicial systems.
 European officials are acutely aware of the dangers that the financial collapse of the Palestinian Authority would entail. ''We don't want another Somalia,'' said Marc Otte, the European Union's representative to the Middle East peace efforts, explaining that such chaos could create an entree for Al Qaeda, which has been absent from the Palestinian scene so far.

Israeli Troops Kill 5 in Nablus
(By The New York Times)
 JERUSALEM, Feb. 23 -- Israeli troops shot five Palestinians to death on Thursday during clashes in the West Bank city of Nablus, the Israeli military and Palestinian medical workers said.
 Israeli troops have been pursuing militants in the Balata Refugee Camp, on the edge of Nablus, for several days, and the fighting has been some of the heaviest in recent weeks.
 The Israeli soldiers killed three wanted members of Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades in a shooting exchange with the gunmen, who were holed up in a house, Palestinian witnesses and medical workers said. 
 A fourth Palestinian man, who the Israeli military said was armed, was shot dead on the roof of a house. The fifth Palestinian killed was part of a group of stone-throwing youths, Palestinians said, though the military said he had been shot after throwing a firebomb at the soldiers.
 Mr. Abbas, in a statement, called on the Israeli government to end ''its aggression against the Palestinian people, because this escalation will lead to a further deterioration and undermine efforts at preserving the climate of calm.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); AL FATAH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%) United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); HAMAS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) European Union; Hamas; Palestinian Authority; United Nations

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (92%); JAVIER SOLANA (89%) Craig S Smith; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; Javier Solana

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); BELGIUM (58%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Israel; Russia; Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



522 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: New York City's Projected Surplus Grows 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN (NYT); Compiled by Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:
New York City stands to end the fiscal year ending June 30 with a surplus of up to $5 billion because of higher than expected revenues from real estate transactions, capital gains, corporate profits and Wall Street bonuses, according to a report released yesterday by State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, left. The projected figure is $500 million more than previously forecast. Mr. Hevesi praised Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg for proposing to transfer $1 billion from this year's surplus toward the cost of retiree health benefits in response to new accounting rules; another $200 million will be set aside to pay for capital projects now rather than incurring the costs of debt in the future. Mr. Hevesi attributed the city's fiscal health to the economic recovery, conservative revenue forecasts and ''Mayor Bloomberg's steady stewardship,'' but also warned that job and wage growth had been weaker than in past recoveries and that the city faced risks from a softening real estate market, higher energy costs and weak consumer spending. SEWELL CHAN (NYT) 

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (88%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (87%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (54%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%) Sewell Chan; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006



523 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Iraqi Cities Under Curfew As Clerics Call for Restraint
With the streets of Baghdad and other major cities largely emptied by a daytime curfew, imams across Iraq called for an end to the sectarian rioting that has left more than 170 people dead over three days, as political leaders held emergency meetings to contain the crisis. A1

President Bush said the sectarian violence was ''a test for the Iraqi security forces,'' but gave no hint whether he was considering a more vigorous response by American military forces to restore order -- or whether the violence might delay their eventual departure. 
 A7

The crisis has demonstrated the power that the many militias in Iraq have to draw the country into a full-scale civil war, and how hard it would be for the state to stop it, Iraqi and American officials say. A1

Leaders in the Middle East told Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during her visit to the region that they were concerned that Iraq's sectarian violence could spread to other countries. A7

Saudi Arabia Foils Bomb Attack
A suicide bomb attack on Saudi Arabia's most important oil and gas facility was thwarted when guards fired on two explosive-laden cars, causing them to detonate about a mile from the entrance, the Saudi Interior Ministry said. In an Internet posting, Al Qaeda claimed responsibility for the attack, the first on Saudi Arabia's oil infrastructure. A7

Iran Said to Start Enriching Fuel
International nuclear inspectors are expected to report that Iran has started producing enriched uranium on a very small scale, indicating that it is striving to solve technological problems in its nuclear program, European officials said. A4

London Mayor Is Suspended
A disciplinary panel took the highly unusual step of suspending the mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, for four weeks to punish him for comparing a Jewish reporter to a Nazi concentration camp guard. A7

Coup Threat Cited in Philippines
President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines said the government had foiled a military coup attempt and declared emergency rule, banning rallies marking the 20th anniversary of the fall of Ferdinand Marcos, the former dictator. A5

Militants Threaten Nigeria's Oil
Over the last two months a shadowy militant group in Nigeria has mounted attacks on oil facilities and taken more than a dozen foreign oil workers hostage, wreaking havoc on the industry that is the mainstay of Nigeria's economy. A5

Thai Leader Seeks New Election
Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, facing a storm over a tax-free windfall from the sale of his family communications company, asked the king to dissolve Parliament, forcing an early election. A3

NATIONAL A8-11

Governor Says He Favors Bill Banning Abortions
Gov. Mike Rounds said that he was inclined to sign a bill that would ban nearly all abortions in South Dakota, the broadest measure to outlaw abortion anywhere in the country. If the governor signs the bill in the coming 15 days, it will take effect statewide on July 1. A9

I.R.S. Reports on Charities
The I.R.S. said that it had seen a sharp increase in prohibited political activity among charities and churches in the last election cycle, a trend it aims to reverse as the country begins midterm elections. A8

Contractor Enters Guilty Plea
A defense contractor pleaded guilty to paying a California congressman more than $1 million in bribes and to hiring the son of a Pentagon official in a scheme that helped bring his firm more than $150 million in defense contracts since 2002. A11

Libby to Review Notes
I. Lewis Libby Jr., the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney who is charged with lying to investigators about his role in the disclosure of the identity of a C.I.A. officer, won the right to review his handwritten notes for a nine-month period surrounding the publication of the information. A11

An Empty County Seat in Texas
At last count , 16 people make Mentone, Texas, their home and 55 more are spread throughout the rest of Loving County's 645 square miles of parched grassland and rattlesnakes -- about one person for every nine square miles. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Prostate Cancer Finding
A team of research scientists in Cleveland and San Francisco said that they had discovered a new virus in patients who had a rare form of prostate cancer. A8

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Holocaust Survivors At Odds With Advocate
For years, Burt Neuborne worked pro bono for Holocaust survivors in a lawsuit that accused Swiss banks of helping the Nazis loot hundreds of millions of dollars worth of Jewish holdings. But a group of American survivors is seething at the lawyer, who recently filed a bill for nearly $4.1 million for his work. B1

Anthrax Turns Up in Home
Officials said the condition of a Greenwich Village man, Vado Diomande, who was infected with inhalation anthrax was worsening, and that his home, van and workplace all tested positive for the bacteria. B3

Arson Suspected in Fatal Fire
A fire in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, that officials believe was started deliberately killed four people, including two children and their mother. B1

Beliefs B6

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-10

ARTS B7-18

Museums Establish Loan Rules
The Association of Art Museum Directors has drawn up new ethical guidelines for loans of antiquities that vigorously defend the museum-collector relationship. It states that museums are duty-bound to examine any legal or ethical issues relating to ancient artworks that they borrow from a private collector. B7

OBITUARIES A12

Benno Besson
A disciple of Bertolt Brecht who became one of the most admired stage directors in Europe, he was 83. A12

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

S.E.C. Subpoenas Columnist
The Securities and Exchange Commission took the rare step of issuing a subpoena to a journalist two weeks ago when it ordered a columnist at MarketWatch.com to provide information about conversations that he had with stock traders and analysts. But after reporters asked about it, the commission decided not to enforce the subpoena. A1

BlackBerries to Stay Online
A federal judge ruled that BlackBerry users can continue to use their wireless e-mail devices and refused to shut down the service, which is at the heart of a long-running patent dispute. C1

Software for Spies
National Security Agency officials visited Silicon Valley this month, seeking computerized systems that reveal connections between seemingly innocuous and unrelated pieces of information. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Street-corner immigration reform; reorganization redux; silenced by Islamist rage; influenza vaccine for children.

Column: John Tierney.

Bridge B17
Crossword B16
TV Listings B18
Weather C14

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CURFEW (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); COUPS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RIOTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOLOCAUST (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); AL-QAEDA (64%); LEGISLATION (61%); ABORTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (56%); MIKE ROUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); NIGERIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); THAILAND (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



524 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS BRIEFS

 BODY:

Mining Company Glamis Gold Agrees to Buy Western Silver of Canada for $1 Billion
Glamis Gold said yesterday that it had agreed to buy the Western Silver Corporation for 1.2 billion Canadian dollars ($1.04 billion). Glamis said it would pay 0.688 share for Western Silver and spin off the copper assets of the combined company. The bid is worth 24.78 Canadian dollars for each Western Silver share, a premium of 27 percent over Thursday's closing price. Acquiring Western Silver will increase Glamis's gold reserves by 85 percent, mostly from the Penasquito project in Mexico, the chief executive, C. Kevin McArthur, said on a conference call. Glamis is based in Reno, Nev., and Western Silver is based in Vancouver. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) 


An Apollo Management Founder Plans His Own Firm
Michael Gross, a co-founder with Leon Black of the New York buyout firm Apollo Management, has resigned to start his own company. Mr. Gross, who said he is interested in the ''convergence of private equity and hedge funds,'' declined to be more specific about his plans. ''It's time for a change, to do something on my own,'' he said in an interview. Mr. Gross has run the Apollo Investment Corporation, Apollo Management's debt-investment unit, since its founding in February 2004. Mr. Gross will continue to serve as non-executive chairman of Apollo Investment. Mr. Black declined to comment. An Apollo co-founder, John Hannan, will take over as chief executive of Apollo Investment, the company said. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

U.S. Opens Free Trade Agreement With El Salvador
A free trade agreement with El Salvador will take effect March 1, the Bush administration said yesterday, leaving behind for the moment five other Latin American nations that are supposed to be part of the Central American Free Trade Agreement. The United States trade representative, Rob Portman, praised El Salvador for the strides it has made in revising laws and regulations necessary to meet the commitments it made in the trade agreement. He said the administration would continue to work with the five other countries to ''ensure timely and full implementation'' of the agreement. (AP)

Citigroup Says S.E.C. Expands Venezuelan Inquiry
Citigroup said yesterday that the Securities and Exchange Commission had expanded an accounting inquiry into the bank's activities in Argentina, and had subpoenaed materials for four additional years. In an annual report filed with the agency, Citigroup said the S.E.C. has subpoenaed witness testimony and information over its accounting and internal controls for the years 1997 to 2004. Citigroup, which is based in New York, previously said the agency's subpoenas covered only 2001 to 2004. Citigroup has said it believes the inquiry is related to investments, business activities and allowances for bad loans in Argentina in the fourth quarter of 2001 and first quarter of 2002, at the height of that country's fiscal crisis. (REUTERS)

Colgate-Palmolive Discloses Succession Plans for Chief
The Colgate-Palmolive Company's chief executive, Reuben Mark, said yesterday that the company planned for its president and chief operating officer, Ian M. Cook, to assume the title of chief executive in 2007. Mr. Mark said during an analyst conference yesterday that Colgate's board also asked for him to remain chairman for a brief period yet to be determined. Mr. Mark has been chief executive of Colgate since 1984 and has been with Colgate for 43 years. Mr. Cook has been operating chief since 2004 and added the title of president in July. (DOW JONES/AP)

General Motors Maintains Executives' Option Grants
General Motors said yesterday it was maintaining stock option grants to senior executives at 2005 levels, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The chief executive, Rick Wagoner, left, was granted options to buy 400,000 shares of the company's common stock, according to the filing. The chief financial officer, Frederick A. Henderson, and the vice chairmen, John M. Devine and Robert A. Lutz, were granted options on 160,000 shares each. The options, which can be exercised over three years, give Mr. Wagoner and the other executives the right to buy G.M. stock at $20.90 a share. The value of the options depends on whether G.M. can recover from its recent weakness and raise its share price. At the closing price of $19.99 yesterday, the options would be worthless. (REUTERS)

Three Executives Leave Gap, One Temporarily
The apparel retailer Gap said yesterday that two vice presidents had left the company and a third was on leave and planned to return at a later date. Alan Barocas, the senior vice president for real estate, retired after 25 years with the company, and Jyothi Rao, vice president for merchandising for Gap's Forth & Town unit, has gone on personal leave and will return at a later date. Felix Carbullido, vice president and general manager of gap.com, also left. Previous executive departures provoked investor concern that the company, struggling with declining earnings and sales, was facing an exodus of experienced people, but a Gap representative, Kris Marubio, said the most recent exits were part of the ebb and flow of business. (REUTERS)

Brazil's Economic Growth Falls Short of Forecasts
Brazil's economy expanded less than analysts expected in the fourth quarter as a stronger currency prompted some manufacturers to curb output and a drought in the south damaged rice and soybean crops. Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of a country's output of goods and services, grew 1.4 percent in the period from a year ago, following growth of 1 percent in the third quarter, the government said. Brazil's economy expanded 2.3 percent for all of 2005, less than half the 2004 growth rate of 4.9 percent. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Western Silver since January

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); SUBPOENAS (83%); MINES & MINING (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); TESTIMONY (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); WITNESSES (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDCORP INC (96%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (84%); APOLLO INVESTMENT CORP (83%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: GG (NYSE) (96%); G (TSX) (96%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); AINV (NASDAQ) (83%); APO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (96%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (96%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (96%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (84%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: LEON BLACK (53%); ROB PORTMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (58%); RENO, NV, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) CANADA (96%); EL SALVADOR (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



525 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Armed Group Shuts Down Part of Nigeria's Oil Output

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: IN THE NIGER DELTA, Nigeria, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
They have, by all appearances, just a handful of boats, some machine guns and grenade launchers and, perhaps equally important, an e-mail address. 
 But with just those tools the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta has managed to shut down nearly a fifth of this nation's vast oil production, briefly push global crude oil prices up more than $1.50 a barrel and throw Nigeria's government into crisis over the group's demand that the oil-rich but squalid region be given a greater share of the wealth it creates.
''They have marginalized us for many years now!'' shouted a machine-gun-wielding member of the militant group, his face covered in black cloth. ''We are taking the bull by the horns now. Niger Delta is ready.'' 
 For the last two months the shadowy militant group has mounted attacks on oil facilities here and taken more than a dozen foreign oil workers hostage, including some Americans, wreaking havoc on the industry that is the mainstay of Nigeria's economy. All of the hostages taken last month were released after 19 days, but new ones were seized last week.
 In e-mail messages sent to the news media, the group says it seeks to liberate the Ijaw people, who make up the bulk of the population here and, the group says, have provided the lifeblood of the Nigerian economy, but with little reward. 
 The government says the group is made up of oil thieves and criminal gangs seeking to control the lucrative trade in oil stolen from pipelines in the labyrinth of creeks that make up the Niger Delta. 
 ''It is pure criminality,'' said Information Minister Frank Nweke Jr. ''These are thugs who are using the plight of the poor to cover their illegal activities.'' 
 Groups of militant youths in this restive region have long used hostage taking and sabotage to extort money from oil companies and prevent the authorities from stopping oil theft from pipelines, a process known as bunkering. 
 But the ferocity and frequency of the recent attacks, in which more than a dozen soldiers have been killed, have increased concern. The violence comes as oil prices have spiked and the political climate in Nigeria has deteriorated ahead of its next presidential election, to be held early next year. 
 Although the attacks have been directed primarily at Royal Dutch Shell, the oldest and largest oil producer in Nigeria, their real target is the government, said Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, an analyst at the Eurasia group, a private research firm. 
 ''They are trying to hurt the government, not really the oil companies,'' Mr. Spio-Garbrah said. ''If the central government, which receives all these monies, is starved of money, the government will be weakened and they will be stronger.'' 
 On Friday, boatloads of members of the group met with journalists on a creek in the delta to outline their demands and show their strength. They reiterated their insistence that foreign oil companies leave the region and the Nigerian military withdraw. They are also demanding the release of the leader of a militant group and the nation's only Ijaw governor, both of whom are in jail. 
 ''We want the Nigerian military men to evacuate from this terrain,'' one of the militants declared, brandishing his M-60 machine gun. ''If we get them anywhere we are going to kill them one by one.'' 
 Dressed in military fatigues and white T-shirts, dozens of men armed with Kalashnikov machine guns and grenade launchers sat aboard speedboats decked with the white flags of Egbesu, the Ijaw god of warfare. They showed one of the nine hostages they seized last week from a barge operated by an oil company contractor, and said they were prepared to seize more hostages and blow up more oil facilities if their demands were not met. 
 ''These people are serious, very serious, about what they are doing,'' said the hostage, Macon Hawkins, 68, an American from Kosciusko, Tex., who works for a company hired by Royal Dutch Shell to lay pipe in the region. 
 ''They are going to fight,'' Mr. Hawkins said, ''and they are going to fight till death. So the army is not going to do a whole lot of good here. The best thing the army can do is pull out and get some negotiators in here and try to settle this thing before it really gets bad.''
 Efforts to defeat the group militarily have not gone well, and it has managed to carry out several audacious attacks on oil facilities. The government says the group pays for its weapons by stealing oil, but several government officials, including two admirals of the Nigerian Navy, have been charged with stealing oil as well. 
 Nigeria is the world's eighth largest exporter of oil and an important supplier to the United States. Despite generating hundreds of billions of dollars in revenue since oil was discovered here in the 1950's, the Niger Delta is one of the poorest and least developed parts of the country.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Macon Hawkins of Kosciusko, Tex., an employee of a pipe-laying company, is a hostage of the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)Map of Nigeria highlighting Niger Delta: The Niger Delta is the oil-producing region of Nigeria.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); EXTORTION (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (62%); POLITICS (60%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Politics and Government ; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (62%); RDSA (AMS) (62%); RDS.B (NYSE) (62%); RDS.A (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (62%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%)

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (94%); NIGER (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Nigeria; Niger Delta (Nigeria)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



526 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Morocco Moves Forward

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Morocco's Past, Morocco's Future'' (editorial, some editions, Feb. 18) highlighted Morocco's recent record of reform as it celebrates 50 years of independence and articulated the depth and breadth of Morocco's progress in recent years. 
Indeed, free and fair parliamentary elections have occurred, landmark legislation granting women full equality with men has been passed, and a Justice and Reconciliation Commission has looked back at and exposed past government abuses to allow the nation to move forward. 
 You expressed concern that Morocco's reforms may have limits. Let me assure you that King Mohammed VI, Morocco's Parliament and democratic institutions, and the Moroccan people have a clear and forward-looking agenda that highlights the rights of the individual, lifts the poor out of poverty, promotes transparency and supports a market economy. 
 Morocco's steadfast partnership with the United States -- originating more than 200 years ago when Morocco was the first nation officially to recognize the United States -- will not waver.

Aziz Mekouar
Ambassador of Morocco
Washington, Feb. 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%) United States International Relations

PERSON: Aziz (Amb) Mekouar

GEOGRAPHIC: MOROCCO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) Morocco

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



527 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: On Wall Street, the Inflation View Is Rosier Than It Is on Main Street

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
CONSUMER prices in the United States are rising rapidly. Or maybe they are not.
 The government's report this week showed that the Consumer Price Index rose 0.7 percent in January, bringing its 12-month gain to 4 percent. That is down a bit from the peaks of last fall, but the annual rate had not been 4 percent or more since 1991. 
Did that bring despair to markets? Just the opposite. The talk among some Wall Street economists was that the Federal Reserve was now less likely to raise short-term interest rates again. The stock market rose on the news.
 These days, Wall Street pays more attention to the core rate of inflation, which ignores food and energy prices. The core rate edged up just 0.2 percent in the month, leaving the annual gain at just 2.1 percent.
 To ordinary people, that fascination with an index that ignores two of the most necessary parts of life may seem odd. The logic to it is that the volatility in energy prices will wash out, and that the core rate does a better job of showing the underlying trend.
 Perhaps so, but year over year, the core rate has been lower than the overall gain in the C.P.I. for 39 consecutive months. That is the longest such stretch since the government started computing the core rate in the 1950's. Energy prices have been volatile, but the expected return to lower levels is not happening.
 Another reason the inflation view from Main Street is less rosy than the one on Wall Street is the way a third necessity -- housing -- is measured in the index. The government estimates what rents would be on homes occupied by owners, and ignores sale prices. The 4.3 percent rise in housing costs over the last 12 months is higher than the rent increase of just 2.5 percent, largely because the cost of heating homes is up.
 That is not the way the government used to do it. Until 1982, it considered the change in the price of houses, along with the level of interest rates. Greg Jensen of Bridgewater Associates, a money management firm, estimates that if the C.P.I. housing component were still computed the old way, both the core and the overall rate would be about 2 percentage points higher. How does 6 percent inflation sound?
 Even the old method did not fully pick up the rising value of homes. The government's best house-price index, from the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, will be out next week for the fourth quarter. But through the third quarter, it was up 12 percent year-over-year. Since the end of 1995, that index shows that home prices have doubled, while the C.P.I. shows housing costs are up by a third.
 Rising home prices have made consumers feel more wealthy and given them more money to spend as mortgages are refinanced. But Wall Street looks at a Consumer Price Index that pays little attention to such rises, and says inflation is low. It is fun while it lasts.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Inflation, Rising or Under Control?''Core inflation in the United States, defined as the Consumer Price Index for everything except food and energy, rose just 2.1 percent in the last 12 months. But the overall C.P.I. climbed 4 percent.Graphs track the following since 1996:CONSUMER PRICE INDEXES, YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE (ALL ITEMS
EXCLUDING FOOD AND ENERGY)Core inflation is more stable than overall inflationGraph tracks ENERGY and FOOD: Energy is more volatile than foodGraph tracks FEDERAL HOUSING INDEX -- Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight housing index
 and, C.P.I. HOUSING: Are housing costs really up just 4.3 percent?(Sources by Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%) United States Economy; United States Economy; Renting and Leasing; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit; Housing; Consumer Behavior; Renting and Leasing; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



528 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: A Move to Add Still More Fine Print to Advertised Airfares 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY and CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT; Jeff Bailey reported from Chicago for this article and Christopher Elliott from Orlando, Fla.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
If a number of large airlines have their way, comparison shopping -- a main force in driving down airfares -- could get much more difficult.
 Many airlines currently advertise fares that initially omit some government taxes and fees, which is allowed, though the uniform nature of those charges makes shopping for fares fairly easy.
But if the large airlines win their lobbying battle to loosen industry advertising regulations, the proposed changes would give them leeway to also advertise fares that do not include the entire amount that the airline would receive. For instance, an airline could advertise a fare and then add a fuel surcharge, increasing the overall cost of the ticket. 
 That could make price comparison more difficult. 
 ''It looks like the airlines are going to get free rein to do whatever they want,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research. ''Buying an airfare is confusing enough now. This could make it even more confusing.''
 Fuel is now the biggest expense at airlines, even ahead of labor costs. Though it is the most likely candidate to be broken out as a surcharge, other costs, like insurance, might also get itemized if the ad rules are loosened.
 Passengers have turned out in droves to book their flights through Internet travel sites that compare airfares. Such shopping, along with the spread of low-cost airlines, has pushed prices sharply lower in recent years. Some older airlines with higher costs were nudged into bankruptcy. 
 Critics fear looser advertising rules would reduce the transparency of pricing and thus give traditional airlines more market power to raise fares. Well-informed buyers are able to drive a harder bargain in most cases, but opaque pricing favors sellers.
 Shopping ''would be more difficult and would take much more searching around,'' John Herrman, a retired college professor in Libby, Mont., said of the proposed relaxing of the rules. ''That's because airlines would doubtlessly make it difficult to determine comparative costs.''Tabby Stone, a pediatrician in Playa Del Ray, Calif., said of the Transportation Department, which regulates fare advertising, ''If they allow it, then the government doesn't care about truth in advertising.''
 The lobbying battle is essentially shaping up as a fight between older airlines and everyone else. The older airlines -- United Airlines, American Airlines, Northwest Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Continental Airlines -- are smarting from price competition. The rest, a coalition of travel agents, individual travelers and low-cost carriers, like Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways, have made the industry more price competitive. 
 Southwest sees the proposed changes as a way to blunt apples-to-apples price comparisons. United says the existing rules are unnecessary for an industry deregulated nearly 30 years ago. United would not say how it might change its ads if allowed to. 
 In comments to the Transportation Department, it appears that most individuals opposed loosening ad regulations. But experts nevertheless expect the agency to approve some relaxing of the rules. 
 Loosening the rules is all but a done deal, concluded Paul M. Ruden, senior vice president for legal and industry affairs at the American Society of Travel Agents. ''Why else would this rule be up for re-evaluation?'' he said. ''They want to make it more difficult for people to compare fares.'' The current rules work fine, Mr. Ruden added.
 Brian Turmail, a Transportation Department spokesman, said that no decision has been made yet. ''We're committed to doing this in a thorough manner.''
 The battle over advertising broke into the open last September after an industry group, the Air Transport Association of America, asked for permission for its members to advertise fuel surcharges separately from base air fares. Higher fuel prices were deepening industry losses and airlines were not having much luck at raising fares to cover the fuel increases.
 The request was turned down because regulation requires any surcharge set at the discretion of airlines to be included in the base fare.
 But Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta was apparently sympathetic to the plea of the airlines. He wrote to the association on Sept. 13 and said he had decided to throw open for potential change the agency's regulation of airfare advertising. Currently, airlines can advertise a fare that omits certain government fees and taxes as long as those charges are also disclosed, enabling consumers to add them all up and determine a final price.
 The Transportation Department is the only agency allowed to regulate airfare advertising, with the Federal Trade Commission and state officials pre-empted from accusing an airline of deceptive advertising. That makes the Transportation Department's rules, and how they are enforced, all the more crucial.
 Mr. Turmail, the Transportation Department spokesman, said that the aviation enforcement office has 15 lawyers who handle advertising and a wide range of other work. Without the stricter rules now in effect, the agency's staff wrote in a public notice inviting comment on possible rule changes, ''enforcement action against abusive advertising practices is likely to be considerably more costly and time consuming.''
 In the notice published on Dec. 14, the department laid out four options: leave regulation unchanged; tighten the rules so that only the total price could be advertised; eliminate much of the regulation and require only that the total price be disclosed before a purchase is made -- potentially requiring any advertisement to include all elements of a fare so that consumers can add them up; eliminate the regulation entirely, allowing airlines to do as they please as long as the ads are not deceptive.
 The agency's staff, in the notice, said that current regulations encourage competition. But it also said that other travel-related industries, notably car rental and hotels, have more flexibility in advertising prices with or without taxes, fees and, in some cases, portions of their own costs.
 Moreover, advertisement of some international fares is less regulated. British Airways, for instance, on its Web site yesterday offered on its initial flight booking screens a trip New York to London in mid-March for $159 each way. Further clicking, however, revealed a total price of $425.20. And that included a fuel surcharge of $55 each way. The airline, said John Lampl, a spokesman, has been breaking out a fuel surcharge since 2004.
 ''Airlines should be treated like everybody else,'' said Robin Urbanski, a United spokeswoman. She would not say how United might advertise differently if the rules change.
 Robert W. Kneisley, associate general counsel at Southwest, said: ''I'd hate to think we're aspiring to be just as good as car-rental outfits. They're maddening.'' 
 Southwest is worried, for instance, that a competitor would advertise a $10 base fare with a $100 fuel surcharge. ''If the industry as a whole engages in mass deception, who knows what we would have to do to be competitive,'' he said.
 Arthur Sackler, executive director of the Interactive Travel Services Association, said in a comment to the agency opposing the changes sought by the big airlines: ''Consumers should not need a calculator to compare fares.''
 Much of the big airlines' misery, of course, occurred after they moved to rid themselves of costly travel agents. Airlines started putting fare information on their Web sites. That allowed easy comparison shopping. Services like Expedia and Orbitz captured a big share of ticket sales and further encouraged consumers to shop by price.
 If airline advertisements begin to appear deceptive to consumers, said Steve Morrison, chairman of the economics department at Northeastern University, it would only drive more consumers to services like Expedia and Orbitz. ''If that's where you have to go to get the truth, that would strengthen their hand,'' he said.
 Even if the rules are loosened, Mr. Morrison said, and fares are advertised less uniformly, the online services will be able to add up the many price elements and publish a complete fare. ''The market will adjust,'' he said. ''A very few people do most of the traveling. And we can imagine they're very sophisticated. So it's not going to fool them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Rules changes could allow advertisement of fares that initially omit some possible surcharges, like one to help cover some fuel costs. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)(pg. C13)
 Comparison shopping for an airfare is now relatively simple. Proposals on advertising could change that. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (93%); AIRLINES (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); LOBBYING (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); TRAVEL AGENTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Advertising and Marketing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Protection; Airlines and Airplanes; Computers and the Internet; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (51%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines; American Airlines; Northwest Airlines; Delta Air Lines; Continental Airlines; Southwest Airlines; Jetblue Airways

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); LUV (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Christopher Elliott; Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) MONTANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



529 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Senator Introduces Bill Creating Guest Worker Program

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
The Republican chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee unveiled draft legislation on Friday that would create a temporary guest worker program that could allow hundreds of thousands of foreigners to fill vacant jobs in the United States for periods of up to six years.
 The draft circulated by the lawmaker, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, would also authorize millions of illegal immigrants who arrived in this country before Jan. 4, 2004 to remain here indefinitely, along with their spouses and children, as long as they registered with the Department of Homeland Security, paid back taxes and remained law-abiding and employed, among other conditions. 
The proposal would require employers to attest that they had tried to recruit American workers before bringing in additional foreigners from abroad and to pay prevailing wages. The plan would not place a restriction on the number of foreigners who could take part in the guest worker program. Those workers would not have the right to become permanent residents or citizens. 
 The bill is silent on whether illegal immigrants already in this country should be accorded that opportunity.
 The legislation will serve as the blueprint for the first Congressional debate on the future of the nation's illegal immigrants since President Bush called for a guest worker plan in 2004. With his draft, Mr. Specter was striving to reconcile the warring factions within his own party and address concerns raised by business leaders, labor officials and advocates for immigrants who have battled fiercely in recent months over the shape of a proposal that would radically reshape immigration policy and the workplace.
 The debate on the bill, which also includes measures to strengthen border security, is expected to begin in the Judiciary Committee next week. Any legislation that passed the Senate would have to be reconciled with a bill passed by the House in December that sought to tighten security along the nation's borders but made no provision for guest workers or legal status for illegal workers already in the United States.
 ''The committee must grapple with a realistic means of bringing out from the shadows the possible 11 million illegal aliens in the United States,'' Mr. Specter wrote in a letter to his colleagues, saying he hoped the draft would build consensus. ''We are a nation of immigrants, but we are also a nation of laws.''
 But the proposal touched off a furor among politicians, advocates for immigrants and union leaders across the political spectrum.
 Conservatives condemned it as an amnesty for lawbreakers. 
 ''By legalizing the millions upon millions of illegal aliens in the U.S., Specter makes a mockery of our laws and crushes our already strained legal immigration system,'' said Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, who pushed for the border security bill in the House.
 Advocates for immigrants said the plan failed to protect the rights of immigrant workers, who they argue deserve a clear path to citizenship. And the A.F.L.-C.I.O. warned that a guest worker program of unlimited scale would depress wages and working conditions while creating a perpetual underclass of foreign workers.
 ''This unprecedented program would put millions of people in a status where they don't get residency and they can't become citizens,'' said Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group in Washington. ''At first blush, its a nonstarter.'' 
 Ana Avendano, associate general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said, ''From the viewpoint of workers, this is not a good bill.''
 The United States Chamber of Commerce praised the draft legislation for addressing the need of many industries for immigrant workers. And Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, who had introduced a more conservative immigration bill, praised Mr. Specter for taking ''a serious look at a very difficult issue.'' 
 The furious response by some constituencies to the draft reflects the difficult position confronting Mr. Specter as he navigates the fault lines within his party and committee, with an eye toward a vote on the Senate floor and a conference with skeptical House Republicans, who have rejected calls to legalize illegal workers.
 Jeanne A. Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said Mr. Specter ''has a difficult path to tread.''
 Under Mr. Specter's proposal, the guest worker program would be open only to foreigners living outside the United States. Applicants would be sponsored by employers -- though they would be allowed to switch employers during their time here -- and would undergo background checks and medical screening. If approved, applicants would be allowed to bring their spouses and children to the United States.
 Work permits would be granted for three years, after which the worker would have to return to his country for a year and apply again. The guest worker could then be authorized for a second and final work permit for three years. 
 Illegal immigrants who arrived in the United States after Jan. 4, 2004 could also participate in the guest worker program, but only if they returned home and applied from their countries. 
 Those illegal workers who arrived in this country before Jan. 4, 2004 could stay in this country indefinitely, provided that they underwent background checks and did not remain unemployed for 45 days or more.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Arlen Specter hopes his guest worker bill will be a blueprint for debate on immigration. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (94%); IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); REFUGEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AMNESTY (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%) Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Foreign Labor; Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (89%); THOMAS G TANCREDO (58%) Rachel L Swarns

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



530 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Dubai Port Deal: More Surprises?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks (''Kicking Arabs in the Teeth,'' column, Feb. 23) and Thomas L. Friedman (''War of the Worlds,'' column, Feb. 24) are right about the Dubai deal. The facts of this deal have been obscured by the hysteria and xenophobia exploited by our politicians. 
 Domestic security is a real and important issue. But the Dubai port deal is a business transaction. 
 The United States must be consistent and fair in matters of commerce, especially with countries from the Middle East. Treating them as the enemy only worsens the gap between Muslim and non-Muslim countries.
 It is worth remembering that the United States has made a long-term investment in promoting economic development in the Middle East to prevent the disenfranchisement and unemployment that encourage terrorism in the first place.

Heather Ferguson
Chicago, Feb. 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TERRORISM (50%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports

ORGANIZATION: Dubai Ports World

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%) Heather Ferguson

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Dubai; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



531 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Little Mideast Oil Wealth Is Going Toward Takeovers of U.S. Assets 

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
Despite soaring oil revenues in the Middle East and the uproar over the attempt by a Dubai company to control seaport terminals at several American ports, Arab countries have made little effort to acquire hard assets in the United States, confining their investment mostly to holdings in real estate, oil refining and financial services. 
 Middle Eastern countries account for less than 1 percent of $1.5 trillion of foreign direct investment in United States businesses and real estate, according to a recent report by the Congressional Research Service. That lags far behind the largest foreign investors: Britain, Japan, Germany, the Netherlands and France. 
In fact, before Dubai Ports World took over the Pacific & Orient Steam Navigation Company of Britain, Middle Eastern investors largely avoided direct control by obtaining partial ownership through shares in publicly owned companies. 
 The most prominent investor from the region is a member of the Saudi royal family, Prince Walid bin Talal , who gained recognition for acquiring a minority holding in the 1990's in Citigroup. Eventually, he became one of its largest shareholders with a 3.9 percent stake. 
 The prince, through his Kingdom Holdings investment concern based in Riyadh, has since acquired large stakes in companies including Hewlett-Packard, Apple Computer and eBay. 
 Investcorp of Bahrain has also gained notice for its investments in the United States and Europe, which have included stakes in upscale retail companies like Saks, Tiffany and Gucci, as well as holdings in CSK, an auto parts company, and Circle K, the convenience store chain. 
 Investcorp, whose founders include the former Saudi oil minister Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani, has acted largely like American private-equity firms that invest in ailing companies with the goal of later selling them or taking them public. 
 An exception to these financial investments is the energy industry. Saudi Aramco, the government-controlled oil producer of Saudi Arabia, owns interests in three large oil refineries in the eastern and southeastern United States in a venture with Royal Dutch/Shell. Sensitivity over foreign ownership of refining assets has heightened recently with the sparring between the government of Venezuela, which controls Citgo, and the Bush administration. 
 Aside from rules governing airlines and television broadcasting, the United States places few limits on foreign ownership in other industries. The Defense Production Act, a cold war-era law enacted in 1950 and amended in 1988, allows the president to prohibit a merger or takeover if there is evidence the foreign buyer's actions might threaten security. 
 Protectionist sentiment appears to be increasing amid greater scrutiny of the ambitions of Chinese companies in the United States. Officials did not favor the acquisition of Global Crossing by Hutchison Whampoa of Hong Kong. And Cnooc, a Chinese oil company, was thwarted in its effort to acquire Unocal.
 Still, it is investors from Dubai who have made the biggest investment splash in recent months. Dubai, a glittering sheikdom, flush with petrodollars from neighboring oil exporters, benefited from its transformation into a freewheeling regional financial center. Until now, Dubai's overseas forays have focused largely on high-profile real estate, hotel and auto industry investments. 
 For instance, Jumeirah, the luxury hotel group based in Dubai, last month completed its acquisition of the Essex House, the 515-room hotel on Central Park South in Manhattan, while in 2005, Dubai International Capital bought a 2 percent stake in DaimlerChrysler valued at about $1 billion. 
 Mubadala Development of Abu Dhabi, which like Dubai is part of the United Arab Emirates, has carried out similar investments in Europe, acquiring a 5 percent stake in Ferrari of Italy and a 25 percent stake in LeasePlan, a car rental company based in the Netherlands. 
 Given the surge in oil revenue throughout the Persian Gulf, it is perhaps surprising that overseas investment from the region has been relatively timid. Oil-exporting nations in the Middle East and North Africa are expected to earn about $530 billion from sales of crude oil this year, compared with $300 billion in 2003, according to the International Monetary Fund. 
 Still, unlike Asian countries with large surpluses that have plowed that money into purchases of United States Treasury bonds and other financial assets, Middle Eastern oil exporters do not appear to be significant buyers of dollar-denominated bonds as they were during the petrodollar boom of the 1970's, according to Howard Handy, director for the Middle East and Africa at the Institute of International Finance.
 That helps explain why the Dubai Ports deal remains an anomaly. Middle Eastern investors have instead injected much of their riches from the latest oil boom into domestic real estate and stock markets. This month, for instance, the main index for Saudi Arabia's stock market reached a record, extending a surge that has doubled the value of companies on the exchange in the last year, to more than $700 billion. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about Middle East investments in the United States misstated the name of the British company acquired by Dubai Ports World. It is the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, not Pacific & Orient.
Two articles on Saturday about the management deal for six American ports and its political fallout referred incorrectly to the role to be played by Dubai Ports World. It would run some of the terminal operations; it would not own the ports or take over all operations.
An article in Business Day on Saturday about Middle East investments in the United States misstated the name of the British company acquired by Dubai Ports World. It is the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, not Pacific & Orient.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); BONDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); RETAILERS (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); PROTECTIONISM (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Foreign Investments; United States Economy; Real Estate; Computers and the Internet; Stocks and Bonds; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); DP WORLD LTD (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); KINGDOM HOLDINGS LTD (55%); SAUDI ARAMCO (53%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (50%); HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (83%) Citigroup Inc; Congressional Research Service

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); DPW (LSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); 0528 (HKSE) (55%); 0013 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS313110 FIBER, YARN & THREAD MILLS (55%); SIC2282 YARN TEXTURIZING, THROWING, TWISTING & WINDING MILLS (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (50%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (72%) Simon Romero; Al-Waleed (Prince) Bin Talal

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%) Middle East 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



532 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Outside U.S., Puzzlement Over Reaction to the Dubai Port Deal

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
The tempest over Dubai's takeover of some United States port operations has surprised and puzzled shipping officials and experts outside America, who called the criticism misguided and contrary to global trade. 
 With its $6.8 billion purchase of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, Dubai Ports World, which is owned by the emirate of Dubai, would acquire terminals not just in the United States, but in 18 other countries, among them Britain, Belgium, France, India and China.
Yet nowhere else has the deal for P.& O., as the company is known, drawn much anxiety. Instead, the call from American politicians to review the purchase, and some of the talk surrounding the discussion, has cast the United States in a negative light to outsiders. 
 ''We've been shocked by the level of animosity and xenophobia leveled at D.P. World,'' said Nick Savvides, the editor of CI Online, a research company for the shipping container industry with headquarters in London. The reaction is particularly galling because under the deal ''port security remains firmly in United States hands,'' Mr. Savvides said. 
 In the United States, the sale has raised a furor, in part because two of the Sept. 11 hijackers came from the United Arab Emirates, which include Dubai, and because the United States may be a more likely target than other countries. Seeing a possible threat to national security, some members of Congress are pressing for a further review of the deal. President Bush has said he will veto any attempt to block it. 
 Dubai agreed Thursday evening to temporarily delay its takeover of the six United States ports. On Friday, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow indicated in a conversation with reporters that the hiatus would be used to better explain the deal, rather than review it. Most international observers say they believe that Dubai will eventually take control of the United States port operations. 
 The deal, which is scheduled to close on Thursday, gives Dubai Ports an entry to the United States, but in other countries it will vastly increase the company's reach. In India, for instance, Dubai will take control of about half the country's container shipping operations, but there has been little public outcry there.
 Foreign port operators say the takeover is just part of a continuing consolidation in the industry. 
 ''Globalization is not something new in Antwerp,'' said Alexandra De Laet, a spokeswoman for the Port of Antwerp in Belgium, where Dubai Ports would acquire 24 berths. ''Container traffic is dominated by foreign companies.'' 
 The takeover is not a security concern, she said. ''We don't think the shifting of owners will make a difference in this, since we have our own security measures,'' Ms. De Laet said. ''We comply with all the same standards that the United States has,'' she said, adding that the port ''won't be less secure because it's a different company operating there.'' 
 In Britain, which privatized its port industry when Margaret Thatcher was prime minister, the deal was seen as a capitalist, not a political, issue.
 ''The ownership of P.& O. went through a commercial decision,'' said a spokesman for the Department of Trade and Industry, who insisted that his name not be used because agency rules do not allow it. Many container ports in Britain are owned by the private sector and change hands, he said. 
 ''We lay down regulations and expectations and standards,'' he said, ''and whoever owns the ports has to comply with them.''
 Dubai Ports will also be acquiring port operations in Vancouver, Canada, as part of the purchase of P.& O., but there has been no outcry in Canada. Canadian politicians say their American counterparts are overlooking a more important issue: the United Arab Emirates ''support America in a major way, and they support Canada in a major way,'' Senator Colin Kenny of Ottawa said. ''They are very engaged in the war on terror and we don't have a lot of friends in that part of the world. These are the good guys.'' 
 In fact, some of the toughest criticism of the United States reaction comes from Britain, possibly America's staunchest partner in the war on terror. Although P.& O. was founded in Britain, more than 90 percent of shareholders voted for the Dubai takeover, in part because of the rich price being offered. 
 Some British publications and analysts were blunt in their criticism. ''The bluster about national security conceals one of the uglier faces of U.S. protectionism -- the one with the slightly racist tinge,'' The Financial Times said in an editorial Tuesday.
 The Economist Intelligence Unit entitled a brief on the deal ''Big vision collides with small minds.'' 
 Richard Dibley, a director in London's Planco Consulting, which advises port authorities, said he was ''struck by how strange'' the American reaction was, and added that it could be called ''paranoia.'' He described the port and shipping business as ''international, you don't get a business that is more so.'' 
 David Whitehead, the director of the British Ports Association, a trade group for port owners, said the American politicians do not understand how the industry works. Port security is a government issue, he said, and every European port that ships to the United States has Coast Guard agents who check cargo. 
 But that misunderstanding overlooks a bigger issue, he said. ''The real issue is about international trade,'' Mr. Whitehead added. ''If you accept international trade, you have to accept international participants.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Teamsters demonstrated yesterday against the sale of Tioga Marine Terminal in Philadelphia. (Photo by William Thomas Cain/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CONTAINERIZATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); POLITICS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); VETO (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); HIJACKING (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%) Ships and Shipping ; Foreign Investments; Ports; Security and Warning Systems; Law and Legislation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Ships and Shipping ; International Trade and World Market; Politics and Government

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (84%); PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Dubai Ports World; Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (84%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (84%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (92%); BELGIUM (90%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (72%) Dubai; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006



533 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: February 26, 2006

 BODY:
 


		Weeks		This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	3	CELL, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $26.95.) What remains of humanity fights to survive after a mysterious force scrambles cellphone users' brains.		 	 	 	2	2	151	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	3	3	3	MEMORY IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lt. Eve Dallas tracks the killer of a woman who was blackmailing her; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	 	4		1	SEA CHANGE, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) Jesse Stone, the police chief of Paradise, Mass., searches for the killer of a woman whose body washed ashore.		 	 	 	5	5	4	THE LAST TEMPLAR, by Raymond Khoury. (Dutton, $24.95.) A coding device stolen from an exhibit of Vatican artifacts may hold clues to the medieval Knights Templar's long-lost treasure -- and their secrets.		 	 	 	6		1	LOVERS & PLAYERS, by Jackie Collins. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) After their father calls them together, Red Diamond's three sons (and their friends and relations) grapple with sex, secrets and murders on both coasts.		 	 	 	7	4	2	GONE, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $25.) A former F.B.I. profiler searches for the kidnapper of his ex-wife.		 	 	 	8	6	6	THE HOSTAGE, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer probes the murder of an American diplomat and the kidnapping of his wife.		 	 	 	9	7	2	OUTBOUND FLIGHT, by Timothy Zahn. (Lucas/Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95.) In a new ''Star Wars'' novel, a Jedi mission to colonize worlds beyond the known galaxy becomes a fight for survival.		 	 	 	10	8	3	THE HUNT CLUB, by John Lescroart. (Dutton, $26.95.) A private investigator, a homicide detective and their friends search for the murderer of a local judge.		 	 	 	11	11	13	MARY, MARY, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The F.B.I. agent Alex Cross tracks a Hollywood killer who announces the crimes via e-mail.		 	 	 	12	9	17	AT FIRST SIGHT, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.95.) The young couple from ''True Believer,'' who are now expecting a child, receive a disturbing message.		 	 	 	13	10	5	THE CAT WHO DROPPED A BOMBSHELL, by Lilian Jackson Braun. (Putnam, $23.95.) The columnist Jim Qwilleran and his cats probe the mysterious death of a wealthy couple.		 	 	 	14		2	ARTHUR & GEORGE, by Julian Barnes. (Knopf, $24.95.) A metaphysical mystery starring Arthur Conan Doyle.		 	 	 	15	12	10	S IS FOR SILENCE, by Sue Grafton. (Marian Wood/Putnam, $26.95.) Kinsey Millhone searches for a woman who disappeared 34 years ago.		 	 	 	16*	16	2	THE GOOD LIFE, by Jay McInerney. (Knopf, $25.) After 9/11, two glamorous Manhattanites begin an affair.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	17	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	2	2	45	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization.		 	 	 	3	4	44	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	4	6	19	THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING, by Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) The author's attempts to come to terms with the death of her husband and the grave illness of their only daughter.		 	 	 	5*	3	19	MY FRIEND LEONARD, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $24.95.) The author of ''A Million Little Pieces,'' which both author and publisher acknowledge contains numerous fabrications, writes about a helpful mobster friend.		 	 	 	6		1	MANHUNT, by James L. Swanson. (Morrow, $26.95.) The 12-day pursuit of John Wilkes Booth after his assassination of Abraham Lincoln.		 	 	 	7	7	3	YOU'RE WEARING THAT?, by Deborah Tannen. (Random House, $24.95.) How mothers and daughters communicate.		 	 	 	8	5	6	FOR LACI, by Sharon Rocha. (Crown, $25.95.) Laci Peterson's mother recalls her daughter and describes her killer's trial.		 	 	 	9	13	54	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	10	9	15	OUR ENDANGERED VALUES, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The former president warns against blurring politics and fundamentalist religion.		 	 	 	11		2	AT CANAAN'S EDGE, by Taylor Branch. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) America in the King years, 1965-68; the final volume of the trilogy.		 	 	 	12	11	18	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all by an actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	13	8	4	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $19.95.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	 	14*	14	16	TEAM OF RIVALS, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The political genius of Abraham Lincoln, from the author of ''No Ordinary Time.''		 	 	 	15	10	13	TEACHER MAN, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $26.) The author of ''Angela's Ashes'' remembers his years teaching high school English in New York City.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 11, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

WAR OF NERVES: Chemical Warfare From World War I to Al-Qaeda, by Jonathan B. Tucker (Pantheon, $30.) This history of poisonous weapons shows how efforts to curb their use often fall prey to the exigencies of battle.
 LINCOLN: A Life of Purpose and Power, by Richard Carwardine. (Knopf, $27.50.) A British historian sees Lincoln as a model president, one who knew how power should be won and used. 
 TWILIGHT, by Stephenie Meyer. (Megan Tingley/Little, Brown, $17.99. Ages 12 and up.) A fatal attraction between human and vampire.
 THE AMALGAMATION POLKA, by Stephen Wright. (Knopf, $24.95.) The dizzyingly told Civil War story of a young man with ties to both sides.
 WHITE GHOST GIRLS, by Alice Greenway. (Black Cat/Grove/Atlantic, $13.) Maoist violence snares two American girls growing up in 1960's Hong Kong in this debut novel.
 LIGHTING THE WAY: Nine Women Who Changed Modern America, by Karenna Gore Schiff. (Miramax/Hyperion, $25.95.) Engaging profiles spanning the 20th century. 
 AFTERLANDS, by Steven Heighton. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A polar ripper based on the true story of 19 people trapped on an Arctic ice floe.
 BREAKING THE SPELL: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon, by Daniel C. Dennett. (Viking, $25.95.) A philosopher seeks the origins of faith in the material world, and confronts taboos.
 MOUTHPIECE: A Life in -- and Sometimes Just Outside -- the Law, by Edward Hayes with Susan Lehman. (Broadway, $24.95.) How a blue-collar boy became a lawyer with an A-list. 
 CONSUELO AND ALVA VANDERBILT: The Story of a Daughter and a Mother in the Gilded Age, by Amanda Mackenzie Stuart. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) The riveting account of a familial bond strained by social strictures and ambitions.
 AMERICAN ALLY: Tony Blair and the War on Terror, by Con Coughlin. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $26.95.) In this account, Britain's prime minister risked a lot to gain very little in siding with Bush.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); POLICE FORCES (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); ARMIES (67%); RELIGION (67%); CATS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (73%); DAN BROWN (57%); JAMES PATTERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



534 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Betty Friedan's Enduring 'Mystique'

BYLINE: By Rachel Donadio. 
Rachel Donadio is a writer and editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
''A baked potato is not as big as the world, and vacuuming the living-room floor -- with or without makeup -- is not work that takes enough thought or energy to challenge any woman's full capacity,'' Betty Friedan famously wrote in ''The Feminine Mystique,'' her 1963 jeremiad on midcentury American domesticity.
Why, asked Friedan, who died this month at 85, had the percentage of women attending college in comparison with men dropped from 47 percent in 1920 to 35 percent in 1958? ''A century earlier,'' Friedan wrote, ''women had fought for higher education; now girls went to college to get a husband.'' By 1963, it seemed, women were in thrall to the idea that ''the highest value and the only commitment for women is the fulfillment of their own femininity'' -- the feminine mystique. 
 ''To fit together the puzzle of women's retreat to home,'' Friedan drew heavily on interviews, social science research and her own academic training. But she also focused her attention on another source: women's magazines. In their pages, she saw the women of the 30's -- ''happily, proudly, adventurously, attractively career women -- who loved and were loved by men'' -- give way in the 50's to earnestly breathless examinations of ''Why Young Mothers Are Always Tired'' or headlines that asked ''Is Boredom Bad for You?'' The articles became evidence of what Friedan came to call ''the problem that has no name,'' the deeply felt but somehow unexpressed feeling that homemaking was not enough.
 By carefully examining McCall's, Redbook, Ladies' Home Journal and Good Housekeeping, Friedan pioneered not just a movement but a method, one that combined grassroots sociology and analysis of popular culture with academic theory. Over the years, it has been adopted by a host of writers, including Barbara Ehrenreich, Arlie Hochschild, Naomi Wolf, Susan Faludi, Ann Crittenden, Ann Hulbert and Judith Warner.
 Friedan read women's magazines so closely because she had written for some of them, on breast-feeding and other domestic themes, while raising her three children in the New York suburbs. She had insider knowledge of how these magazines worked, how editors sometimes manufactured stories to fit what market research putatively showed that readers wanted. Indeed, ''The Feminine Mystique'' grew out of an idea Friedan had proposed to McCall's, Ladies' Home Journal and Redbook, all of which rejected it as out of line with their image of American womanhood. The proposal was based on a survey Friedan had put together and distributed to her classmates in the Smith College class of 1942 at their 15th reunion. At a moment of heated debates in the press about whether colleges should offer more practical training in housewifery, Friedan expected her survey would ''disprove the current notion that education had fitted us ill for our role as women.'' Instead, she discovered, ''the suspicion arose as to whether it was the education or the role that was wrong.'' Friedan, in her rejected article, argued that women should be educated to be individuals, not housewives, but that it was up to them to integrate these roles. (McCall's and Ladies' Home Journal later excerpted parts of the book.)
 At the time of the Smith reunion, Friedan felt she hadn't lived up to her promise. She had done graduate work with the psychologist Erik Erikson at the University of California, Berkeley, but turned down a prestigious Ph.D. fellowship after a boyfriend said it would ruin their relationship, and became a reporter. ''The Feminine Mystique'' came from somewhere deep within me and all my experience came together in it,'' Friedan wrote in the introduction to the 10th anniversary edition. ''My mother's discontent, my own training in Gestalt and Freudian psychology, the fellowship I felt guilty about giving up, the stint as a reporter which taught me how to follow clues to the hidden economic underside of reality, my exodus to the suburbs and all the hours with other mothers shopping at supermarkets, taking the children swimming, coffee klatches.'' 
 Armed with this insight, she was unrelenting in her analysis. At the height of Freudianism, Friedan blamed Freud for having ''elevated'' the feminine mystique ''into a scientific religion.'' She also scrutinized the Kinsey Report and criticized the anthropologist Margaret Mead for professing that anatomy is destiny.
 With its generalizing power, and its strong roots in psychology and sociology, ''The Feminine Mystique'' has less in common with the later feminist polemics it inspired than with other ambitious cultural critiques of the 1950's. Friedan's account of unfulfilled housewives, imprisoned in the ''comfortable concentration camps'' of their suburban living rooms, completes a picture of a generation deeply unsettled by the demands of the postwar meritocracy and the isolation of the new suburbia -- whose alleged classlessness made everyone uneasy about status. These women were married to the alienated middle managers depicted in ''The Organization Man,'' William Whyte's best-selling 1956 study of American corporate and suburban culture, men who ''weren't seeking excitement or challenge.'' ''They wanted a safe haven,'' wrote Whyte, an editor at Fortune. ''They wanted to work for AT&T and General Electric, for heaven's sake!'' The organization men were cousins to the conformist ''other-directed'' men described in ''The Lonely Crowd,'' the Harvard sociologist David Riesman's 1950 study of American social character, men who looked to ''the expectations and preferences of others'' rather than following ''an internalized set of goals.'' Friedan cites both books in ''The Feminine Mystique.'' She also acknowledged Simone de Beauvoir's ''Second Sex,'' first published in the United States in 1953, as an influence.
 ''The Feminine Mystique,'' which first appeared during the printers' strike that shut down New York newspapers in 1963, had a quiet start. To promote it, W. W. Norton hired an outside publicist, Tania Grossinger, whose parents owned the famous Catskills resort of the same name. Grossinger organized a book tour, a relative rarity at the time, and had Friedan call on her network of friends in various cities. Like so many classics, the book enjoyed its first commercial success in paperback. Released in February 1964 -- the same month as the paperback edition of ''The Centaur,'' John Updike's myth-inflected novel of high school life, and J. D. Salinger's ''Franny and Zooey'' -- the soft-cover edition sold 1.4 million copies in its first printing. Over the years, it has sold close to three million copies.
 ''The Feminine Mystique'' puzzled some early critics. The Book Review included it in a belated digest of briefs winnowed down from full reviews that never appeared because of the strike. The reviewer, Lucy Freeman -- one of the few female reporters at The New York Times -- criticized Friedan's reliance on women's magazines. ''Sweeping generalities, in which this book necessarily abounds, may hold a certain amount of truth but often obscure the deeper issues,'' wrote Freeman, who covered mental health and had written a memoir of her own depression and experiences with psychoanalysis. ''It is superficial to blame the 'culture' and its handmaidens, the women's magazines, as she does. What is to stop a woman who is interested in national and international affairs from reading magazines that deal with those subjects? To paraphrase a famous line, 'The fault, dear Mrs. Friedan, is not in our culture, but in ourselves.' '' In fact, Friedan did not blame women's magazines, she analyzed the America presented in their pages with uncommon acuity. 
 In ''The Feminine Mystique,'' Friedan lamented that college courses for women on marriage lacked the ''critical thinking demanded in other academic disciplines'' and passed off ''indoctrination of opinions and values'' as scholarship. That Friedan could tell the difference is one reason ''The Feminine Mystique'' still remains vital.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Book Review on Feb. 26 about the career of the late Betty Friedan misstated the relationship between Tania Grossinger, the publicity agent for Friedan's "Feminine Mystique," and the couple who formerly owned Grossinger's, the Catskill resort. They were her second cousins, not her parents.
An article in the Book Review on Feb. 26 about the career of the late Betty Friedan misstated the relationship between Tania Grossinger, the publicity agent for Friedan's "Feminine Mystique," and the couple who formerly owned Grossinger's, the Catskill resort. They were her second cousins, not her parents.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Betty Friedan at a gathering of supporters in East Hampton in August 1970. (Photograph by Tim Boxer/Hulton Archive/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); WRITERS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); CHILDREN (74%); BREASTFEEDING (72%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



535 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; SUMMER CRUISES: DESIGN TRENDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Extreme Makeover: Taking High Style To the High Seas

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

 BODY:
CAPTAIN STUBING wouldn't know thread counts from pillow tops. And Frette? That must be Charo's boyfriend. 
 Cruise line cabins have come a long way since ''The Love Boat'' set sail for Acapulco back in the 70's, but now they are getting positively swank. In what the industry terms an ''extreme makeover,'' aging vessels are being refitted, refurbished and, in some cases, even reassembled, turning claustrophobic cabins into floating skyboxes that would make Ian Schrager proud.
Balconies are being welded on, mattresses upgraded, fiber-optic lighting installed and goose-down pillows fluffed -- all in an effort to attract younger passengers accustomed to plasma televisions as well as entice repeat customers tired of the same floral duvet. 
 ''Cabins used to be closeted, drab and uninspiring -- a lot like inexpensive roadside motels,'' said Glen Reid, a leisure analyst at Bear, Stearns & Company in New York City. ''Today, they're looking a lot more like five-star resorts.'' 
 And what resort would be complete without personalized stationery, a 24-hour concierge and a full-service spa? As part of a $225 million facelift, Holland America Line is adding those and a dozen other boutique-minded comforts to its 13-ship fleet. Clunky televisions are being replaced by flat-screen models; single-spray faucets are being upgraded to pulsating showerheads; and beds are being perked up with Sealy Posturepedic Euro-top mattresses. 
 Thread counts are rising faster than gasoline prices. Holland America upgraded its 180-count, blended-cotton sheets to 250-count, all-cotton linen. Silversea Cruises upped the ante with 320-count, Egyptian cotton bedspreads. 
 Not to be outdone, Crystal Cruises now boasts 350-count Frette linens in its penthouses, a pillow menu (hypoallergenic, foam, feather and neck-shaped) for its most discriminating sleepers. 
 No detail is too small to be embellished. Bathrooms are not only being outfitted with full-body jets and whirlpool tubs, but they now feature chic toiletries like Acqua di Parma (Silversea), L'Occitaine (Norwegian Cruise Line) and Red Flower (Crystal). 
 ''They carry it at Barneys,'' said Mimi Weisbrand, a spokeswoman for Crystal, which switched to Red Flower from Aveda. ''Each room will be stocked with two scents: blood orange and gardenia. We're the first to give passengers a choice of two scents.'' 
 It's all part of the amenity creep popularized by style-conscious hotels and now engulfing the cruise industry in a tidal wave of designer chic. ''It's similar to what Ritz Carlton and the Four Seasons feature in their suites,'' said Erling Frydenberg, the chief operations officer at Silversea. ''We want to stay competitive.'' 
 But the decorating drive is also a matter of economics. New construction of cruise vessels has slowed in recent years, and cruise lines are focusing on modernizing older vessels. 
 A striking example is the Royal Caribbean International's Enchantment of the Seas. Last year, the eight-year-old ship was cut in half and a 73-foot-long midsection was inserted like a drop leaf, adding 151 new staterooms and extending its length to 990 feet. Similarly, the company's older Sovereign of the Seas was recently retrofitted with 62 balconies to meet a growing consumer demand for outdoor accommodations. 
 ''People have developed an expectation for private balconies, both on cruises and on land,'' said Adam M. Goldstein, the president of Royal Caribbean. 
 The same upmarket drift applies to the decor. Gone are the days when cabins felt like hospital waiting rooms, characterized by beige metal walls, harsh overhead lighting and office-grade chairs that were often bolted to the deck. Las Vegas-style themes that were popular in the last decade (Polynesian tiki bars, African safari lounges, Parisian cafes) also seem to be on a wane. 
 The emerging look today is more sophisticated and more residential. Walls are now sheathed in exotic wood veneers like eucalyptus. Chairs are upholstered in tanned leather and crushed velvet. And the lighting mixes low-voltage halogens, soffit-mounted diodes and custom-made table lamps. 
 ''Our cabins went from traditional to contemporary,'' said Alexandra Don, the vice president of onboard guest services for Crystal, which replaced all the soft furnishings on the Crystal Symphony last year. Neutral-toned carpet was laid down, less-frilly curtains were hung and quilted duvets were spread. It was the second facelift in three years. 
 ''Redesigns used to take place every four to five years,'' said Frank Symeou, the chief executive at designteam, a London firm that has worked with Royal Caribbean, Celebrity Cruises and Cunard. ''Now it's every couple of years.''
 That's not the only thing getting younger. While retirees are still a core segment of the cruise industry, the average age of passengers has fallen in the last decade to 50 from 60, according to the Cruise Line International Association in New York. The latest association survey shows that people under 40 now make up about a quarter of the manifest. 
 In decorating terms, that means pastels, floral prints and pale woods are out; muted textures and darker woods are in. 
 ''It's no longer just Grandma and Grandpa, but all ages,'' said Gunnar Aaserud, the executive architect at Yran & Storbraaten, an Oslo-based design firm that is modernizing the Silversea fleet. ''We're moving away from shiny brass, and more toward brushed stainless steel.'' 
 That younger look is evident on the newest ships. The Norwegian Jewel, a Norwegian Cruise Line ship that entered service in September, was meant to evoke a stylish international hotel, with a dozen suites that feel like Gen-X bachelor pads. 
 The 5,750-square-foot Garden Villa, for instance, has rosewood walls with stainless steel trim, a dark walnut wet bar with shiny aluminum stools, and a white circular couch that faces a 42-inch plasma television. The bathrooms are equipped with more flat-panel televisions, his-and-her bowl-like sinks, and sconces that resemble light sabers. 
 The nightclub atmosphere is echoed throughout the ship. Passageways are lined with abstract art. Teak cabanas ring the swimming pools. And instead of marble and mirrors, the atrium has a Jumbotron-size monitor, a simulated skylight with stalactite-shaped crystals and Louis XVI-style chairs rendered in hot pink. 
 ''The atrium was inspired by the minimalist Philippe Starck style,'' said Trevor Young, vice president for hotel, new building and refurbishment for Norwegian. The Whiskey Bar, with its bands of orange light and top-shelf liquor framed behind frosted yellow glass, borrows heavily from the Mandarin Bar in London. 
 Hip hotel references are even finding their way into stately and more conservative ships like Cunard's Queen Mary 2. While much of the behemoth vessel is swathed in walnut burr and accessorized with silver butler trays, the Commodore Club could be mistaken for a Scandinavian airport lounge, the Veuve Clicquot Champagne Bar has the crisp elegance of a Hermes showroom, and its Canyon Ranch spa could be the focus of a Wallpaper centerfold.
 ''When we ask our clients what they want -- traditional, themed, contemporary or avant-garde -- very often they will mention hotels like the Delano in Miami,'' said Andy Collier, the head of design at SMC Design in London, which collaborated on the Queen Mary 2 and the Queen Elizabeth 2's recent renovation. ''They want that cool sophisticated look.'' 
 But cutting-edge design has its limits in a travel sector where social activities are programmed to the minute, and predictability is prized over adventure. Cruises,after all, take the guesswork out of visiting foreign places, and appeal to the kind of mainstream tourist who probably prefers Ethan Allen over Herman Miller. 
 ''As much as the industry is trying to broaden the demographic, they don't want to alienate the core customer by adopting avant-garde designs,'' said Robin Farley, a senior leisure analyst with UBS in San Francisco. ''It's still an older customer base.'' 
 Cruise lines agree that their interiors won't end up in glossy magazines anytime soon. ''You can build a wonderful ship that wins all the design awards, but nobody will go on them,'' said Ms. Don, the Crystal vice president. ''Our demographic doesn't want a bathroom wall made of glass. They don't want to watch their 78-year-old wife taking a shower.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Norwegian Jewel has 10 courtyard villa suites that open to a common area, above, with a lounging bed, pool, hot tub and small gym. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); COTTON FABRICS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (74%); RESORTS (74%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Ships and Shipping ; Cruises; Restoration and Rehabilitation

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (69%); CRYSTAL CRUISES INC (53%); NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (52%)

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (52%)

PERSON: Denny Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



536 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: CANADA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Urging Americans to Look North, Beyond the Border Hassles

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
THE United States' often overlooked neighbor to the north wants Americans to know there's more to Canada than moose, Mounties and mountains covered in snow. 
 Concerned by a drop in tourism coming from the United States, Canadian provinces are trying to lure more Yanks across the border. The theme of their messages is similar: Canada has more to offer than you might think. The slogan: ''Keep Exploring.''
Alberta plans to run advertisements sometime next month in movie theaters in key United States markets to let Americans know that the beautiful scenery in the Oscar-nominated film ''Brokeback Mountain'' was shot there. The Northwest Territories, home to a budding diamond industry, is pushing trips that allow travelers to cut and polish a diamond. British Columbia is spending $1.5 million on a campaign to highlight warm-weather activities like hiking, biking and kayaking. 
 ''There's a lot to do in Canada that people don't think of off the bat,'' said Michele McKenzie, president of the Canadian Tourism Commission. With an increasing number of countries vying for American travel dollars, ''the level of competition is fierce and we need to give people new reasons to come to Canada,'' she said.
 All of this is good news for travelers from the United States who can expect everything from new direct flights to more travel discounts. Last year, Air Canada expanded the availability of its popular Web-based Flight Passes to American travelers by introducing a ''Flight to Canada'' pass -- a prepaid package of 10 one-way flight credits between the United States and Canada at up to 30 percent off normal rates. This year, the airline is adding new flights to existing routes including between New York and Vancouver and will begin flying between New York and Calgary, Los Angeles and Edmonton, and Denver and Montreal. 
 Fairmont Hotels and Resorts is offering special winter savings; deals range from a fourth night free at the Fairmont Chateau Whistler to rates as low as $111 a night at the Fairmont Winnipeg in Manitoba. 
 Whistler, which saw a 14 percent drop in visitors from long-haul markets like the Midwest and East Coast states last year, has been offering everything from $50 gas credits to half-off ski-school programs. Currently, travelers can book a $269 ''Midweek Madness'' package through April 21 for a four-night stay and three-day lift ticket. The drop in travelers is ''a huge concern for us,'' said Barrett Fisher, president of Tourism Whistler. Canada saw a drop of about 4.5 percent in overnight visitors from the United States last year compared to 2004, according to the Canadian Tourism Commission. Overnight visitors traveling by car accounted for the biggest decline from January through November, at 6.7 percent less than a similar period in 2004. And daytrippers dropped about 12 percent last year.
 Reasons for the downturn range from a stronger Canadian dollar to difficulties crossing the border. Above all that, many tourists from the United States simply think there are ''more interesting and exotic places to go,'' according to a survey released by the Canadian Tourism Commission last month. 
 ''I don't have people asking to go to Canada,'' said Susan Tanzman, of Martin's Travel and Tours in Los Angeles, Calif., ''I believe when we went through 9/11 a lot of people were going to Canada, Mexico and Hawaii. Now we're seeing pent-up demand to go back to the places they're wanting to see.'' For instance, she said, ''There has been an allure to go back to Europe.'' 
 To offset this, the Tourism Industry Association of Canada, a private-sector advocate for Canadian tourism, has asked the federal government to give the Tourism Commission an additional $100 million a year to compete with international markets for United States visitors. The group is also working on ways to make it easier for American visitors to cross the border. 
 In 2004, the United States government introduced the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, which will ultimately require all travelers going to and from the Americas, the Caribbean and Bermuda to carry a passport or other accepted document in order to enter or re-enter the United States. Currently, all American visitors need to go back and forth to Canada is proof of citenzenship, such as a passport, or a birth certificate and a photo ID, such as a valid a driver's license. 
 The new initiative will require all American citizens returning from Canada by air or sea to carry a passport or other accepted document by the end of the year. The requirement will be extended to those traveling by car by the end of 2007. New U.S. passports cost $97 for adults and $82 for children under 16. A People Access Security Service, or PASS, expected to be around half the cost of a passport, is also in development. 
 All of this is causing confusion about border crossings and leading travelers to put off trips. Indeed, a May study by the Ontario Ministry of Tourism, found 33 percent of adults surveyed in the United States believed that a passport was already needed to visit Canada. To help ease confusion and potential economic barriers to travel, the Canadian tourism industry is lobbying for the use of state driver's licenses and personal identification cards in lieu of passports for Americans returning to the United States. 
 Some travelers say getting a passport isn't the problem, though. They cite stepped-up security on the United States side of the border. Before Sept. 11, Richard Kemmer, an energy consultant from Wyckoff, N.J., frequently drove to Canada for day trips when visiting family members in Buffalo. ''Before 9/11, it was no problem, you just crossed over,'' he said. ''Now, the wait, especially on the weekends can be for an hour or longer.'' 
 Mr. Kemmer now visits less frequently. ''I just don't want to sit in a car for two hours while 200 people ahead of me are asked how long have you been here? Where did you go? What did you do?'' he said. 
 Despite such hassles, some travelers are still enamored of Canada. ''We live in Nashua, New Hampshire, and think of Montreal as our Parisian suburb,'' said Luis Figarella, an engineer who often vacations in Canada and has no plans to stop. ''No matter how nice Maison Robert in Boston is, a good French meal tastes different -- I think better-- when everyone around you in the restaurant is speaking French to each other.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ingo Fast)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); SKIING (89%); AIRLINES (88%); HIKING (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); RESORTS (73%); AIR SERVICE (71%); DIAMOND MARKETS (69%); HOTEL CHAINS (61%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: AIR CANADA (58%); FAIRMONT HOTELS & RESORTS INC (52%); FAIRMONT RAFFLES HOTELS INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (52%)

PERSON: Michelle Higgins

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (78%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (88%); ALBERTA, CANADA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST TERRITORIES, CANADA (78%); MANITOBA, CANADA (73%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



537 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: February 26, 2006

 BODY:
 


	Weeks		This	On			 	 	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	2	THE CLOSERS, by Michael Connelly. (Warner, $7.99.) Detective Harry Bosch investigates the long-ago death of a 16-year-old girl.		 	 	2	12	THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Dell, $7.99.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets. 		 	 	3	2	IMPOSSIBLE, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $7.99.) A romance blossoms between the owner of a Parisian art gallery and a bohemian painter.		 	 	4	2	CORDINA'S ROYAL FAMILY: GABRIELLA & ALEXANDER, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.99.) Reprints of two romances set on a Mediterranean isle.		 	 	5	56	MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Vintage, $14.95; $7.99.) A young woman in Kyoto has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.		 	 	6	2	THE THIRD SECRET, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $7.99.) Present-day intrigue in the Vatican revolving around the Marian apparitions at Fatima in 1917.		 	 	7	2	SKELETON MAN, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperTorch, $7.99.) Sgt. Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police and Joe Leaphorn, a retired lieutenant, join forces on a case involving stolen diamonds and murder.		 	 	8	75	THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how his childhood friend has fared under the Taliban.		 	 	9	6	HONEYMOON, by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Warner, $13.95.) An F.B.I. agent investigating a beautiful and mysterious woman finds himself becoming obsessed with her.		 	 	10	2	ORIGIN IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Berkley, $7.99.) In 2059, Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the killings of a father and son, both of whom were cosmetic surgeons; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	11	2	CRAZY IN LOVE, by Luanne Rice. (Bantam, $7.50.) The story, first published in 1988, of a woman worried she is losing her husband to Wall Street.		 	 	12	4	GILEAD, by Marilynne Robinson. (Picador/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $14.) A story of fathers and sons that reaches back to the abolitionist movement and into the 1950's, narrated by a 76-year-old Iowa pastor.		 	 	13	23	WICKED, by Gregory Maguire. (ReganBooks/ HarperCollins, $15.) A little green-skinned girl grows up to become the Wicked Witch of the West. 		 	 	14	5	VANISHING ACTS, by Jodi Picoult. (Washington Square, $14.) A woman who undertakes search-and-rescue missions in New Hampshire discovers that she herself has been a missing person for nearly 30 years.		 	 	15*	126	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) A Harvard scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	4	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	2	21	A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Anchor, $14.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this memoir contains numerous fabrications. 		 	 	3	5	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author, a contributor to MSNBC.com, recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another.		 	 	4	52	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	5	79	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	6	7	THREE WEEKS WITH MY BROTHER, by Nicholas Sparks and Micah Sparks. (Warner, $13.95.) The novelist and his sibling describe their world trip. 		 	 	7	18	FLYBOYS, by James Bradley. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95; $7.99.) Eight American airmen shot down and captured by the Japanese in World War II.		 	 	8	8	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Penguin, $17.) A historical investigation into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	9	5	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Harvest/Harcourt, $15.) How autism can help lead to a better understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals.		 	 	10	180	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.		 	 	11	3	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Bantam, $5.50.) The original English translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald.		 	 	12	104	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of a great architect and a serial killer, who were linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	13	152	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Broadway, $12.95; Anchor, $6.99.) The author, a sportswriter, tells of his visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door. 		 	 	14	2	SMASHED, by Koren Zailckas. (Penguin, $14.) A young woman remembers her excessive drinking throughout high school and college.		 	 	15	6	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	 161	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 	2	32	NATURAL CURES ''THEY'' DON'T WANT YOU TO KNOW ABOUT, by Kevin Trudeau. (Alliance Publishing Group, $29.95.) Remedies that do not include drugs or surgery. ()		 	 	3	2	IF YOU COULD SEE WHAT I SEE, by Sylvia Browne. (Hay House, $24.95.) A professed psychic offers 21 principles for living.		 	 	4	68	YOUR BEST LIFE NOW, by Joel Osteen. (Warner Faith, $19.99.) A faith-based approach to living with enthusiasm. ()		 	 	5	28	YOU: THE OWNER'S MANUAL, by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz. (HarperResource, $24.95.) A guide to how the body works, and advice on maintaining health and youth.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	15	365: NO REPEATS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $19.95.) A year's worth of dinner recipes from the Food Network host.		 	 	2	8	THE BIGGEST LOSER, by Maggie Greenwood-Robinson et al. (Rodale, $18.95.) A diet and exercise program adapted from the weight-loss reality TV show.		 	 	3	252	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) For parents-to-be. ()		 	 	4	37	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan devised by a Miami cardiologist.		 	 	5	266	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $16.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich. ()		 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 11, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WOMEN (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); RELIGION (72%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); WORLD WAR II (53%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (58%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); DAN BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (69%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (76%); HOLY SEE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



538 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 13; Column 2; Television; CRITIC'S CHOICE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Movies

BYLINE: By Anita Gates

 BODY:

SKY CAPTAIN AND THE WORLD OF TOMORROW (2004)
Saturday at 7 p.m. on Showtime
Truly gigantic robots (standing humans come up to their ankles) are clomping through the streets of Manhattan. Robot airplanes that flap their wings like birds are attacking. Important scientists are disappearing. Clearly, the world needs saving. The job falls to an aviator, Sky Captain, a k a Joe (Jude Law), and a metro-desk newspaper reporter named Polly Perkins (Gwyneth Paltrow, above, with Mr. Law). This entertaining comic-book-noir fantasy, made up mostly of computer-generated images, also offers swell, smart-alecky 1940's dialogue (''Can we, just for once, die without all this bickering?''); Angelina Jolie with an eyepatch and a British accent; and a cameo by Laurence Olivier, who has been dead for almost 17 years. Kerry Conran, a first-time filmmaker, wrote and directed. 


BABY BOY (2001)
Monday at 7:30 p.m. on BET
John Singleton wrote and directed this coming-of-age drama about Jody (Tyrese Gibson, left), an unemployed and immature but decent 20-year-old black man in South-Central Los Angeles. He has two children by two different women but still lives with his mother. When the mother's boyfriend (Ving Rhames) moves in, Jody is thrown into the real world and forced to make choices that will define his character for the rest of his life. When the film opened, A. O. Scott, writing in The New York Times, described it as ''a powerful, compassionate and tough-minded critique of contemporary black manhood.''

THE BRIDGES AT TOKO-RI (1954)
Wednesday at 8 p.m. on TCM
This solid, suspenseful war film is all about whether one guy, Lt. Harry Brubaker (William Holden), a Navy fighter pilot in the Korean War, is going to make it. If he doesn't, it'll be a crying shame because he has been blessed with a perfect life. He has a beautiful wife (Grace Kelly), who loves him enough to fly to Japan when he's on leave; two adorable baby-boomer girls; and courage to spare. Mickey Rooney plays a sailor with an anger-management problem. Fredric March is the rear admiral, who has lost too much to war. The director was Mark Robson, who went on to less serious fare (including ''Valley of the Dolls'').

SAY ANYTHING (1989)
Friday at 8 and 10 p.m. and Saturday at 2:30 p.m. on WE
This romantic high school comedy from Cameron Crowe is for every boy (or girl) who has ever dared to pursue someone too good for him (or her). John Cusack plays Lloyd Dobler, the unambitious underachiever who falls for the genius valedictorian, Diane Court (Ione Skye, left, with Mr. Cusack), who also happens to be a beauty. Both have just graduated, so Lloyd has only the summer to win Diane before she goes far away to college. Both leads are charming, but the real standout is Lili Taylor, who has some extraordinary moments singing angry songs her character has written about a painful breakup.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Paramount Pictures)
(Photo by Columbia Pictures)
(Photo by MGM/UA)
 (Photo by 20th Century Fox)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); FILM GENRES (75%); DRAMA FILMS (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); WRITERS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (67%); KOREAN WAR (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GWYNETH PALTROW (55%); ANGELINA JOLIE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



539 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2635 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Settled? Must Be Time to Move 

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
GIVEN the choice, many people refuse to submit to the agonies of moving until boxed in by romantic, reproductive or professional circumstances. But the opposite is true for serial movers, who eagerly hop back on the open-house circuit even before the aroma of fresh paint and polyurethane begins to fade -- that is, if they ever stopped looking in the first place.
 Rachel Natalie Klein, 34, has lived in seven apartments in the five years since she arrived in Manhattan. Her most recent move, last June, was to a newly renovated $1,500-a-month, 1,000-square-foot walk-up in East Harlem, on 127th Street between Fifth and Madison Avenues. Previously, she lived on the Upper West Side, in the East Village and in Midtown East.
While able to point to economics, romance or apartment-related annoyances as a justification for each move, she recognizes that her constant shifting makes her unusual in a city where finding even one decent dwelling is considered a victory worth savoring, not tossing aside. 
 ''This last man I dated, he said he thought I was searching,'' said Ms. Klein, who agreed that her journey is a process of exploration. 
 Moving around ''is about seeing what fits and what doesn't,'' said Ms. Klein, a broadcast director at the public relations firm Kellen Communications, who often surfs real estate Web sites to unwind and indulge her curiosity about what's available and how other people live. She has even started chronicling her adventures in real estate and in her new neighborhood, East Harlem, in her blog, Bagel in Harlem (www.bagelinharlem.blogspot.com). 
 ''When I move, I just feel like I'm going to attack a new neighborhood -- going to meet more people, going to find the new restaurants, find out what's going on,'' she said. 
 Among those who uproot infrequently, moving as a means of exploration is a foreign concept. They are more likely to equate transience with arrested development or a shiftiness a step away from check-kiting schemes. 
 It is certainly true, said Nancy J. Crown, a Manhattan clinical psychologist, that cookie-cutter explanations don't exist.
 ''It would always have to be understood within the context of the particular person and their unique history,'' Ms. Crown said. ''So you really couldn't say that moving a lot means the same thing for everyone. There are some people who -- either because of a lack of sense of who they are, or some feeling of inadequacy -- may want to redo themselves in one way or another again and again. Something new is like anything is possible -- you can sort of imagine yourself to be the person that you'd like to be.'' 
 Lots of moving could also signal a fear of commitment and a consequent fear of closing off opportunities. Or, like procrastination, it can be a way to avoid failure. ''If it's constantly in process, you're never being judged for the finished product,'' said Ms. Crown, who also warned against overpathologizing the behavior. ''Not only does the same behavior mean different things to different people, but something one person might find intolerable, another person might really thrive from.'' 
 Such benefits might include an outlet for creativity, or channeling a desire for upheaval in a less destructive way than, say, job- or bed-hopping.
 Serial movers seem motivated by everything from a desire for exploration, to the perpetuation of habit born in childhood, to a hunger for drama and excitement, to a fondness for extreme housekeeping. And these days, such appetites are stoked by a smorgasbord of aggressively marketed new buildings engaging in a constant battle of one-upmanship. 
 ''With the renters, I think it's about, where can I live that's going to be a little cooler,'' said Diane M. Ramirez, president of Halstead Property. ''I had a doorman and now I want a doorman and a gym, now I want a pool in the building. It's not that you can't stand the place you're living.'' 
 Sabrina Seidner, managing director of the Upper West Side office of Nest Seekers International, observed, ''Really fancy rental buildings that have every imaginable amenity are becoming the norm.'' 
 Whereas the rule of thumb for changing apartments used be every seven years, Ms. Seidner said it seems to have shrunk to something like two years among a larger swath of clientele, resembling a fashion trend. 
 Indeed, most of those interviewed wore their transience as a badge of honor. ''Moving to me is a symbol of independence and open-mindedness, of not being afraid to let go of things in your life, of being grounded by the right things and not by objects,'' said Bige Z. Doruk, 38, chief executive and president of Gaia Power Technologies, an energy storage and backup company. Ms. Doruk and her husband, Ib I. Olsen, 43, have moved four times within Lower Manhattan since they married in 2000. 
 Their current apartment -- the first they have owned -- is an 1,100-square-foot TriBeCa condo they bought for $665,000 in September 2003. They renovated it and, in January, put it on the market for $1.295 million.
 Though they stand to pocket a sizable profit and have already found a bigger apartment, for $1.1 million, in the financial district, Ms. Doruk emphasized that for them, moving has never been about the money.
 ''I don't think we ever look at anything as our permanent home,'' she said, while acknowledging that the eventual schooling of her son, Kai, 2, might cut into the couple's mobility. ''That's our mentality -- we don't like getting complacent and too routine.'' 
 Still, said Ms. Doruk, who was born in Turkey and moved often while growing up, ''to us it's important to really keep an open mind and not be one of these 60-year-olds who have done things the same way so long that they can't travel 200 miles to get somewhere. We see that people who don't move are more close-minded and have a tendency to get too fixated on things in their life.''
 Like Ms. Doruk, many frequent movers experienced mobile childhoods. Therapists point out that any stress-inducing childhood event can be essentially re-enacted in adulthood without conscious intent or even recognition. Without commenting on Ms. Doruk specifically, Ms. Crown explained, ''If something happens to somebody that overwhelms them at a vulnerable time, any particular behavior pattern can become a way of trying to take that overwhelming experience and turn it into something you can have control over.'' 
 Lauren May, 23, a public relations account executive, said she moved every two to three years as a child. On her own since graduating from college, she has upped the ante, moving three times in Manhattan in her two postgraduate years. ''If you're new to New York, it's extremely hard to find an apartment you like without going through a few duds first,'' she said, echoing the observations of real estate brokers and other frequent movers.
 Nevertheless, she worries that her moves herald a troubling pattern. ''You grow up in a constantly volatile living situation, always picking up and going,'' she said. ''So when things settle down and get boring in your own life, you can always pick up and move. If something doesn't work, moving seems like an easier solution.''
 Peripatetic upbringing or not, the chronic urge to move often seems less a permanent lifestyle choice than an outgrowth of a particular phase of life, during which a person either feels too settled (romantically, professionally or both) or is preoccupied with forging a new identity. The latter group, brokers say, typically includes the young-and-the-restless segment in their 20's and 30's, or people at the opposite end of the spectrum, who have finished raising their children. (Those still raising children, brokers say, are more likely to be prostrated into one place by the tangled roots of domesticity and a commensurate lack of energy.)
 Wendy J. Sarasohn, a senior vice president at the Corcoran Group, said her most mobile clients tend to be female empty-nesters. ''They've produced their children successfully, their kids are well launched, and then they need to address what's next for them,'' she said. ''And for many of the women, it will be to create a new home. It's beyond decorating.'' 
 A certain subset set out to alter their bodies as well as their living arrangements in what becomes an escalating and intertwined addiction to change, Ms. Sarasohn said.
 ''I think some of the serial movers are the same as plastic surgery junkies -- people who look outside themselves for change and excitement,'' she said of the overlap that she has observed in some clients. ''First, someone starts with Botox, and then their eyes, and then the first home that they renovate, sell and make a profit, and then they get their neck done.''
 For others, the urge to move coincides with the beginning of a committed relationship. It's as if they replace the drama and excitement of searching for a new partner with the drama and excitement of searching for -- and often renovating -- a new dwelling. 
 Herb Seilberger, 48, worked in the travel industry and lived a relatively rooted life before he met his partner, John-Alec Briggs, 40, a dozen years ago. Since then, they have moved five times: four in New York (with the help of Linda Gertler, a vice president at Corcoran), and this past September to Palm Springs, Calif.
 Although the pair made money in the moving and found it somewhat addictive, Mr. Seilberger said, that didn't fully explain the wandering. The less tangible silver lining, he said, was the way the sense of adventure enlivened his relationship with his partner, who is an interior designer and architect. It also allowed Mr. Seilberger to finally make the break with New York and move to Palm Springs, a long-held dream. 
 The couple have been renovating their $750,000 home there, which has 11 palm trees and a pool, and just bought another property to live in temporarily, Mr. Seilberger said. They have also started a business buying and renovating condo units.
 Mitchell J. Kassman, 48, has moved 15 times in the decade since he met his wife, Maria, now 41. The onset of his roving ways coincided with the end of a longish bachelorhood, but he steadfastly denied a connection. 
 ''It's like trying to create a house that you really want,'' he said. ''When you fix up a house and you're done, you're looking for something else. It's like a kick or a drug. You keep searching. If you don't have children, you can keep on moving.''
 Mr. Kassman, a salesman-turned-mortgage broker, started by renovating apartments in Manhattan that he found with the help of Scott Schiller, a senior vice president at the real estate brokerage firm Anchor Associates. Several years ago, Mr. Kassman turned to Long Island, after his father's death precipitated a move there to care for his mother. There, among other real estate adventures, he tried to bring his life full circle.
 ''When I was a little kid, all the rich kids lived in this area in Woodbury, so we bought this beautiful house in the Gates of Woodbury that I wanted to live in all my life and we fixed it up.'' He said he sold it in May (after living there for two years) because, it turned out, ''I didn't like the rich people.'' 
 Mr. Kassman's wife, a bystander who is sanguine about changing homes the way others change slipcovers, put forth her own observations about her spouse's restlessness. ''He doesn't know how to settle down,'' she said. ''After he fixes the house, he's happy for a while. It's the honeymoon stage and everybody gives him compliments, and once that passes, he needs to start over.''
 Many brokers asserted that renters are more restless than owners. Renters not only tend to be younger, with more flux-related issues, but also the transactional costs are less severe, and the end of a lease provides a natural transition. Unlike owners, who can eventually recoup some or all of the cost of gussying up their apartments when they feel the urge to upgrade, ''renters don't want to go into their pockets too deeply to improve their apartment,'' said Kevin M. Kurland, president of Kurland Realty. 
 Dennis M. Colwell Jr., 31, a Corcoran broker, falls into the serial-renter category. Mr. Colwell has rented five luxury high-rise apartments in three buildings in Jersey City since moving from Houston five years ago. 
 ''Basically, the bottom line is I always want to have the cutting-edge apartment,'' he said. ''I want the latest floor plan, the best view, outdoor space.'' 
 Mr. Colwell started out sharing a three-bedroom apartment with two roommates, and moved up by increments of $200. He now lives in a $2,800-a-month two-bedroom on the 35th floor of the Liberty Towers complex. It is, he says, the largest apartment in his building and the one with the best view. He estimated that a similar space in Manhattan would rent for about $6,000.
 ''People think it's crazy to move all the time, but to me moving is a great opportunity to, like, clean house,'' Mr. Colwell said. ''You don't have to dust under the beds, and you throw out the trash you've accumulated. You usually buy a few new pieces of furniture and paint the walls. So you're also in the latest trends in decorating.'' 
 Mr. Colwell sees a blank canvas where others see cookie cutters and enjoys showing off his taste by frequently entertaining co-workers, friends and prospective clients. 
 Serial movers with fatter bank accounts tend to seek out condos and brownstones, said Kirk Henckels, the director of Stribling Private Brokerage. ''Co-ops are looking for stable tenancy,'' he said. ''If someone moved every three years or less, the boards would start asking questions.''
 Mr. Henckels says his restless clients tend to be men who have made a lot of money on Wall Street and ''want to build and enjoy the process.''
 ''Basically, they're frustrated architects or contractors,'' he said. 
 But Richard Steinberg, a senior managing director at Warburg Realty, said that in his experience, the older wealthy men swooping in and out of $10-million-and-up residences shy away from renovations. ''I don't think they want to tie themselves up for a year,'' he said. ''These type-A personalities -- in the course of 12 months, their tastes can change.''
 Stephanie Gurland, 62, a senior sales agent at Bellmarc and a self-described perfectionist who has moved about 25 times in 38 years, says that her motivation for moving has changed over the years. Her first 20 moves, mostly within Florida, occurred because ''I wasn't happy in my marriage,'' said Ms. Gurland, who eventually divorced. ''I was doing it to try to get happy. I was always looking for a better situation and more comfort in my life.'' 
 Now on her fifth apartment in New York since moving here in 1991 -- she lives in a doorman studio on Central Park West for which she paid $379,000 in May -- she views her path as part moneymaking venture, part ''quest for the best'' and ''a form of reorganization.''
 ''You have to throw away a lot of stuff and buy new stuff,'' she said. ''I furnish each place from the floor up.''
 Ms. Klein, the East Harlem renter, said that while she harbored no misgivings about her journey, she was surprised by how upset she was over a recent office move from the 17th floor to the 15th floor of the same Midtown building. ''I was not expecting an office move to be emotional,'' said Ms. Klein, who had been at the old office for five years. ''I'm discombobulated. Everything is new -- the fixtures are new, the furniture is new, the carpets are new.'' 
 Would she adjust better to her new workspace if she had not cycled through so many apartments? Perhaps, she admitted. ''It was a bit of an anchor,'' she said, adding: ''The psychological ramifications of moving are vast and very interesting. They can take on a life of their own. There are a lot of boxes in one's life.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: EXPLORING -- Rachel Natalie Klein in her East Harlem apartment, her seventh in five years. Below, Maria and Mitchell Kassman in East Hampton, with their dog, Freckles, have moved 15 times in the last decade. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
(Photo by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
NO DUST BUNNIES -- Bige Z. Doruk and Ib I. Olsen, with Kai, 2, avoiding ''routine and complacency,'' have moved four times since 2000 and have just put their TriBeCa condo on the market. Dennis M. Colwell Jr., in Jersey City, keeps moving in search of the newest and best rental. (Photos by above, Frances Roberts for The New York Times
 below, Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); POLYURETHANE (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Condominiums; Cooperatives

PERSON: Teri Karush Rogers; Rachel Natalie Klein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



540 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Replacing a Troubled Neighborhood in Newport

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ABBOTT

DATELINE: NEWPORT, R.I. 

 BODY:
IN a city known for its Gilded Age mansions, housing of a different sort has been getting a lot of attention lately.
 Newport's largest and most troubled public housing project, Tonomy Hill, is coming down, and the city is creating a $70 million neighborhood housing people from a mix of income levels.
Using $20 million from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development as well as other funds, the Newport Public Housing Authority is tearing down 498 units of worn barracks-style housing that dates back to World War II. 
 The housing that is taking its place is a mix of sizes and shapes, with gabled roofs and porches. Even the streets have been reconfigured by the project's developer, Trinity Financial of Boston, and they have been given new names like Sunset Boulevard. 
 The result is a new ''old-fashioned'' neighborhood, where it is difficult to tell which units are public housing and which are not, an outcome housing officials fully intended in order to help shatter Tonomy Hill's image as a troubled community for the very poor.
 ''Tonomy Hill was long past its useful life,'' said Christopher Barnett, a spokesman for the Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corporation, a quasi state agency helping to finance the five-year project.
 Situated in the city's less glamorous north end, where few tourists wander, the housing had become dilapidated over time, creating a sense of despair and isolation in its residents, Mr. Barnett said. 
 Tonomy Hill is just a few miles from the ornate mansions and busy harbor that draw thousands of tourists to Newport every year. But its residents have never been integrated into the city's tourist economy and, over time, Tonomy Hill became notorious for drug dealing and other crimes.
 ''We wanted to not only build new housing, but to also have the opportunity to change a community,'' said James Reed, executive director of the Newport Housing Authority.
 By providing housing for people with moderate incomes, as well as for those on the lower end of the economic scale, the city hopes to create a sustainable community, where crime won't be tolerated and where people care about their property and feel connected to the larger city of Newport.
 The federal funds are coming from a program called Hope VI, which requires that services also be added. Already, the program seems to have improved the lives of many residents, Mr. Reed said. He noted that more than 200 children from the project now attend a new preschool nearby and that 57 of Tonomy's residents have completed a job-training and placement program.
 So far, three of the project's five phases have been completed, totaling 264 units, with the remaining two phases scheduled to be finished by 2008. As each phase proceeds, temporary housing is found for displaced tenants, who have the option of returning when the new housing is ready. 
 Residents started to return to Tonomy Hill in February 2004. But it was no longer Tonomy Hill -- it was Newport Heights -- and they seemed to like what they saw.
 ''It's much, much, much quieter -- much safer,'' said Angela Jersky, who moved into a subsidized town house with her four children just before Christmas. ''The kids have a yard to play in,'' she said.
 Nellie Colazzo moved her family back to Newport from Florida, because, she said, the development is so nice. Mrs. Colazzo lives in a subsidized three-bedroom duplex with her husband, Kevin, and three children. ''We were looking for a better place for our children,'' she said. 
 But not all of Tonomy's original tenants will be able to return. Newport Heights will be smaller than Tonomy Hill, with 425 units compared with nearly 500. And since the housing is for a variety of income levels, there will be a loss of 173 units for people on the lowest rung of the economic ladder. 
 This initially incited concern among housing advocates. Noting that Tonomy Hill had many minority residents, one group, Project Basic, based in Providence, accused the Newport Housing Authority and the Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corporation of ''ethnic cleansing.''
 But objections to the project dissipated when the Newport Housing Authority agreed to replace every unit of low-income housing it destroyed. ''I had to be sure we didn't lose any public housing in Rhode Island,'' said Richard Godfrey, executive director of the finance corporation.
 Rhode Island has experienced a surge in housing prices over the last decade, while wages have barely risen. There is a lack of housing for not only the poorest people in the state, but also for those of moderate means.
 This problem is particularly acute in Newport, a city that used tourism to make a spectacular comeback after the Navy left town in the early 1970's. With prices the way they are -- the median price to buy a single-family home in Newport is $449,000 -- city officials fear that the middle-class children of native Newporters will be locked out of the housing market. 
 ''We clearly need to be addressing the needs of families with median incomes,'' said Jan Shapin, chairwoman of the Newport Housing Authority.
 Newport Heights will help to do this, because 100 of the 425 new units will be affordable homes that people can buy.
 Rents and home prices will vary according to income. A one-bedroom apartment, for example, might rent for anywhere from $300 to $900 a month. Prices for two- and three-bedroom colonials and town houses are expected to start at around $160,000 and could go as high as around $400,000.
 But Ms. Shapin said she is still worried about the city's ability to provide housing for its social workers, police officers and teachers, in addition to its poor.
 Mr. Godfrey said he had no choice but to impose a one-to-one replacement ratio on the Newport Housing Authority, even though he and others knew it would be a challenging requirement to meet. The one new project the authority has proposed -- eight town houses on Chapel Street -- has triggered opposition from neighbors who complain their neighborhood is dense enough as it is.
 The neighbors have written to Gov. Donald L. Carcieri and the Newport City Council seeking relief from the plan, but they have yet to receive a response. ''I have no idea where to go with this,'' said Nancy Kougeas, one of neighbors.
 The underlying problem is that there is very little land left to develop in Newport or all of Rhode Island, for that matter. This has become evident in recent years, as the state's 39 cities and town's have struggled to meet a state law that requires them to set aside at least 10 percent of housing for moderate- to low-income people. 
 ''Most of the country is providing affordable housing through sprawl,'' said Mr. Godfrey, who is also president of the National Council of State Housing Agencies. ''But we have no place to sprawl to, and Boston and New York are sprawling into us.'' 
 The Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corporation ultimately struck a deal with the Newport Housing Authority that allows it to fulfill its replacement requirement with the help of other Rhode Island communities. Under this agreement, reached in May 2004, Newport must still locate 60 units in the city, but the rest can be in other towns, as long as the housing is within half a mile of public transportation. 
 Mr. Reed said he was confident that the replacement issue would not prevent Newport Heights from being completed. ''It's about opportunity for good housing,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HOME SWEET HOME -- Angela Jersky and her four children outside their new town house. (Photo by Jodie Hilton for The New York Times)
 NEWPORT HEIGHTS -- The barracks-style housing that made up the old Tonomy Hill neighborhood in Newport, R.I., right, is being torn down to make way for new mixed-income homes. The result will be a new ''old-fashioned'' neighborhood. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (92%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); WORLD WAR II (55%) Housing; Public Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Abbott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (97%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Newport (Ri)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



541 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; CHECK IN /CHECK OUT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: HANOI: HILTON HANOI OPERA

BYLINE: By ROBERT ANDREW POWELL

 BODY:

THE BASICS -- The infamous ''Hanoi Hilton,'' where Senator John McCain spent five and a half years during the Vietnam War, has been largely demolished. Only a small museum remains of the Hoa Lo prison, involuntary housing for 300 American pilots captured in the conflict. The Hilton Hanoi Opera, open since 1999, takes pains to not celebrate a connection to Hoa Lo, even if the hotel's Web site is www.hanoi.hilton.com. Tourists still drop in to ask if the prison was located there, or at least nearby -- but none of the guests, the concierge assured during a recent stay, confuse the hotel with a prison. 


THE LOCATION -- The hotel is in the downtown commercial district, a short walk from the French-colonial cafes and architecture of Old Town. Even closer is Hoan Kiem Lake, the bustling moped racetrack at the center of everything.

THE BUILDING -- The hotel curves around the nearly century-old Hanoi Opera House (now known as the Municipal Theater). The Neo-Baroque facade is designed to mirror the loggias and high plinths of the opera house itself, and it does it well, even down to an identical colonial-yellow paint job.

THE AMENITIES -- Like many foreign installations in developing countries, the hotel can seem culturally and economically removed from the balletic chaos of its city. English is the only language needed inside the three-story lobby, which, with its gilded columns and ornate iron ceiling, somewhat resembles a bank. And anyone familiar with Hanoi will be aghast at the prices compared with those in the city at large. One night in the Hilton can get you a week at a hotel in Old Town. And a bowl of pho, a rice-noodle soup, in one of hotel's three restaurants costs $4.50 plus a 5 percent gratuity and a 10 percent value-added tax; just a block away, a similar bowl costs about 15 cents.

THE ROOM -- You've been in this room before in Chicago -- or was it San Diego? That's deliberately part of its appeal. The carpet, the tapestry behind the beds and the heavy striped drapes are Vietnamese green, cream and a red so deep it's almost crimson. In a watercolor painting near the beds, a peasant family shares a meal, their faces shaded by conical hats. A beautiful armoire features a heavily lacquered painting of the Vietnam countryside. But that's about it for local color. The television picks up HBO and ESPN. The minibar is stocked with Western comfort snacks like Oreos, Kit Kat bars, California pistachios, Pringles and four brands of beer, only one -- Halida -- that's Vietnamese.

THE BATHROOM -- Brown. Earthy brown tile lines the floor and walls. There's a brown stone countertop supporting a generous white half-moon sink. Next to the sink, a green vase holds a red rose, a Vietnamese symbol of life.

ROOM SERVICE -- An order form for breakfast listed omelets and chicken soup. We ordered both only to be awakened by a call the next morning reminding us that, as we suspected, no eggs or chicken will be available until the avian flu scare runs its course. The fish, cold cuts, cereals and fruits featured at the buffet in the main restaurant are a better choice, anyway.

THE CROWD -- Jazz musicians from California, executives tapping on their laptops in the lobby and the occasional homesick backpacker of means.

THE BOTTOM LINE -- The Hilton Hanoi Opera feels hermetically sealed off from Hanoi. In the lobby, eating a salami-and-cheese sandwich as Billy Joel crooned over the sound system, we couldn't hear the motorbikes zooming outside, their horns forever honking -- not in warning but as a general announcement of their existence. The hotel advertises a good night's sleep, which is rarely guaranteed in Hanoi. After two weeks in the country, the Hilton provided our first night of deep sleep. It has 269 rooms, with doubles starting at $85 a night. The Hilton Hanoi Opera. 1 Le Thanh Tong Street, Hanoi;(84-4) 933-0500. ROBERT ANDREW POWELL

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hilton Hanoi Opera was designed to blend with the nearby opera house that dates to the French era.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); PAINTING (77%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (70%); BEER & ALE (60%); LOBBYING (58%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (51%); VALUE ADDED TAX (50%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%) Hotels and Motels; Reviews

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Hilton Hanoi Opera Hotel (Hanoi, Vietnam)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (73%) Robert Andrew Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VIETNAM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (91%) Hanoi (Vietnam)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



542 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-26-06: IDEA LAB; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Is Freedom Just Another Word for Many Things to Buy?

BYLINE: By Barry Schwartz, Hazel Rose Markus and Alana Conner Snibbe. 
Barry Schwartz is a professor of psychology at Swarthmore College and the author of ''The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less.'' Hazel Rose Markus is a professor of psychology at Stanford University. Alana Conner Snibbe is the senior editor of the Stanford Social Innovation Review.

 BODY:
In today's America, everyone from President Bush to advertising executives to liberal activists appears to agree that freedom is about having choices and that having more choices means having more freedom. Choice, even in mundane matters, embodies the larger ideal of the individual as arbiter not just of what tastes or feels good but also of what is good. This is why we now regard 32 kinds of jam in the supermarket, 50 styles of jeans in the department store and 120 retirement plans in the workplace as signs of both economic progress and moral and political progress. Choice is what enables all of us to live exactly the kind of lives we want to and think we should.
But this ''wisdom'' is suspect for two reasons. First, most Americans do not think that freedom is about exercising more and more choice. And second, even for those who do equate freedom with choice, having more choice does not seem to make them feel freer. Instead, Americans are increasingly bewildered -- not liberated -- by the sheer volume of choices they must make in a day. 
 As behavioral scientists, we have found that the people who frame freedom in terms of choice are usually the ones who get to make a lot of choices -- that is, middle- and upper-class white Americans (most of our study participants are white; we can't make any claims about other racial and ethnic groups). The education, income and upbringing of these Americans grant them choices about how to live their lives and also encourage them to express their preferences and personalities through the choices they make. Most Americans, however, are not from the college-educated middle and upper classes. Working-class Americans often have fewer resources and experience greater uncertainty and insecurity. For them, being free is less about making choices that reflect their uniqueness and mastery and more about being left alone, with their personality, integrity and well-being intact. 
 Social class is difficult to measure -- it's a complicated amalgam of education, income and occupational prestige -- but in the U.S.'s quasi meritocracy, education has arguably become its most important facet. And so in our research we often identify social class with education. 
 In a recent study with Nicole Stephens at Stanford University, we asked college students to pick ''three adjectives that best capture what the word 'choice' means to you.'' A higher percentage of those who had parents with a college education said ''freedom,'' ''action'' and ''control,'' while more of those whose parents had only a high-school education responded with ''fear,'' ''doubt'' and ''difficulty.'' 
 We also analyzed how freedom and choice are presented in one of our most pervasive and influential cultural products: popular songs. In every region, Americans with higher education and higher incomes typically prefer rock music over country. We found that rock lyrics had a lot more talk of choice, control and self-expression, as in the Rolling Stones' refrain, '''Cause I'm free to do what I want any old time.'' But when we analyzed country music, preferred over rock by less-educated Americans in every region, we heard more mentions of self-protection and defense, as in Darryl Worley's observation, ''We didn't get to keep [our freedom] by backin' down.'' When choice was mentioned, it was often as a prelude or coda to tragedy, as in George Jones's lament ''Now I'm living and dying with the choices I've made.''
 Several experimental studies also show how these divergent conceptions of freedom and choice shape working- and middle-class Americans' daily lives. One set of studies used an approach common to many social-psychology experiments: an everyday setting and a deliberately mundane task were exploited to reveal significant psychological processes. Our researchers approached shoppers at malls and airports and asked them to take part in a marketing study. The researcher displayed five different black pens and invited the participant to choose one to keep. Half the time, the participant then used the chosen pen to answer a list of questions, including several about how much he or she liked the pen. This was the ''choice'' condition. The other half of the time, after the participant chose a pen, the researcher took it away, explaining: ''I'm sorry, you can't have that pen. It's the last one of its kind that we have. Here, take this one.'' The participant was then given another pen to answer the list of questions. This was the ''no choice'' condition. True to our observation that middle-class Americans have primarily positive associations with choice, we found that among participants with at least a college degree, those who got to choose their pen liked it more than those who were given a pen they hadn't chosen. By contrast, participants who had less than a bachelor's degree liked pens chosen by someone else just as much as they liked the pens they chose for themselves.
 In another alleged marketing study, we asked construction workers, firefighters and maintenance workers, who had no more than a high-school diploma, and students and employees with at least a bachelor's degree, to rank 10 recently released CD's from least liked to most liked and to choose one of their middle-ranked CD's as a gift for themselves.They then reranked the CD's after making their choice. We found that the mere act of choosing a CD caused the college-educated participants to like their gift CD more after choosing it than they had before. On the other hand, those without a college degree did not like their gift CD's more just because they had chosen them.
 Another study that compared people in different occupations showed that those employed in middle-class jobs got upset when a friend or neighbor bought the same car as theirs because they felt that the uniqueness of their choice had been undercut. But those in working-class jobs liked it when others chose the same car because it affirmed that they had made a good choice. 
 In part because of the higher social status of middle-class Americans, the equation of freedom with choice is the one most loudly broadcast. Every corner of life is now rife with choices, as well as with talk of the control and self-expression that choosing imparts. But is this middle-class conception of freedom the ''right'' one? Empirical evidence suggests that we should be careful what we wish for. Americans are increasingly overwhelmed by all these choices. We feel less free now than when we had fewer choices, and we show it in our behavior.
 For example, Sheena Iyengar and Wei Jiang at Columbia University found that giving people more 401(k) investment options makes them less likely to choose one at all, even though by not choosing they pass up employers' valuable matching funds. We see this result echoed in the panicked reactions of senior citizens to the drug-plan choices they now face. And when people manage to overcome paralysis and make choices -- even sound ones -- they are likely to be plagued with doubt, worried that their choice was not the best one. So the assumption that more choice means more freedom is false, at least as a general rule. American society has given the educated elites what they have asked for, and an increase in stress, anxiety and dissatisfaction has been a widespread result.
 What conception of freedom should Americans pursue? While the upper and middle classes define freedom as choice, working-class Americans emphasize freedom from instability. These perspectives echo the distinction between freedom to and freedom from made by Franklin Roosevelt and by the philosopher Isaiah Berlin half a century ago. For all our red-versus-blue rancor, most Americans agree that ours is a free country. But what freedom is, and where it should be nurtured and where constrained, are hotly contested issues. 
 Similarly, many of the freedoms endorsed and advocated by U.S. foreign policy may not always resemble those desired by the people whom we hope to help. To govern well, both at home and abroad, Americans would be wise to listen to how freedom rings in different cultural contexts. Knowing that ''we love our freedom,'' as President Bush said in his recent State of the Union address, should be the beginning of a national conversation, not the end of it.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Martin Parr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); ETHNIC GROUPS (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) 

PERSON: Barry (Prof) Schwartz; Hazel Rose (Prof) Markus; Alana Conner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



543 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-26-06: QUESTIONS FOR DAVID SICKEY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Lobbying Reservations

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
Q: You are one of the four council members of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana, which was stripped of more than $30 million by the lobbyist Jack Abramoff when it tried to buy influence in Washington. Can you tell us about the repercussions for your tribe? Here I am, embroiled in the biggest controversy to hit the Indians since Columbus arrived. It's not exactly what we would want, national exposure over lobbying scams. We're getting checks coming back every week from groups that Abramoff requested the tribe donate to.
You mean no politician or political group wants to be associated with you? The Republican Party wants to frame this as an Indian issue to detract attention away from the dirty antics of the operatives in their party. They're blaming the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. 
 You're referring to the law passed by Congress in 1988. As a result, your tribe opened the Coushatta Casino Resort in Kinder, La., which is said to bring in some $300 million a year. The Coushattas and the Indians in general achieved it in a fair way using the white system. 
 No one doubts that, but what were your tribal councilmen thinking when they wrote so many checks to Jack Abramoff and the publicist Michael Scanlon? We wanted access into senior levels of the government, whether it be the Department of the Interior or -- Jack said he could reach into the Bush administration and had access to Karl Rove.
 In his plea agreement in January, Abramoff claimed that your tribe gave him the money to keep rival tribes from building casinos in Texas. Whose idea was that? That was his idea. Personally, I'd never thought about it before. My feeling was that any kind of gaming legislation in Texas was out of our hands. We're in Louisiana, so I thought there was only so much we could do to affect Texas legislation. 
 Aren't other tribes furious at you for trying to thwart their own efforts? When you have any kind of business enterprise, there is going to be competition, and Indians are no exception. 
 Still, so many people want a casino-free America. We like to call it an enterprise; casino has a stigma attached to it. We are a major economic engine in this region. At the casino, we employ close to 3,000 people, and the majority of them are non-Indians.
 I hear the casino profits are evenly distributed among all 847 members of your tribe, including children. Can you tell us how much you each received last year? No, ma'am, I cannot. You would have to buy me an eight-ounce fillet for me to give up that information.
 Is it under $50,000 a year? Yes, significantly less. The members of the tribe would probably hang me in the nearest tree if I disclosed that figure. 
 That sounds to me like a Native American slur. Well, I can get away with it. You can't. 
 You're only 27 and weren't elected to the tribal council until May 2003, so how many times did you actually meet Abramoff? Only once, and I was already looking into his billings and his work -- or lack thereof. So he was more comfortable with Poncho than with me. Right when he stepped into the conference room, he immediately gave Poncho a big hug. 
 I assume Poncho was the tribe's chief at the time? For media purposes, we prefer the word chairman. We've adopted a little bit of Anglo stuff here. There's this stigma attached to chief; it sounds like an old relic from the past. 
 Since you are so forward-looking, what do you envision for the future of the Coushatta tribe? Just to sum it up in a nutshell, Indian country is looking forward to the day when Jack Abramoff will become Jack Afterthought. Deborah Solomon


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Brent Humphreys)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); GAMING (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); RESORTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (50%) Gambling; Indians, American; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Coushatta Tribe; Casinos

ORGANIZATION: Coushatta Casino Resort (Kinder, La)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (54%) David Sickey; Deborah Solomon; Jack Abramoff

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



544 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: There's a Light at the End of the Energy Pipelines 

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
COMPANIES with pipelines that carry natural gas or petroleum products had a great run in the stock market last year.
 Some of the enthusiasm for these stocks may have been misguided, analysts say, because pipeline revenues don't surge with the commodity prices of the gas or oil that they transport.
But long-term bulls say that there are still solid reasons for investing in pipelines, and they predict a huge expansion in the industry in the next 15 years. In that period, the bulls say, some $25 billion may be needed to build new natural gas infrastructure in the United States -- including interstate pipelines, storage facilities and marine terminals that reconvert liquefied natural gas back to its original state. 
 There are many reasons to expect that construction boom. The United States wants to reduce its dependence on foreign oil, and natural gas is much cleaner to burn than oil or coal, so overall demand for gas could rise, analysts say. 
 A shift in supply-and-demand patterns is likely to be the most important cause of a building binge, said Anatol Feygin, a stock analyst at Banc of America Securities.
 Production in gas fields is expected to fall over the next decade in the Gulf Coast region and the Midwest, while rising sharply in the Rockies, he said. He added that some new marine terminals for receiving and processing liquefied natural gas would be coming on line over the next two to three years. Demand for natural gas, meanwhile, is slipping in the Rust Belt as factories move abroad, but it is rising in growing population centers like Florida and the Southwest.
 Most independent pipeline companies in the United States focus on transporting natural gas, because the energy giants tend to own their own pipelines for oil. One company, Kinder Morgan, owns 10,000 miles of pipelines for refined petroleum products, such as gasoline and jet fuel. That makes it the largest independent owner of those pipelines in the United States. It has the second-largest natural gas pipeline network, after the El Paso Corporation.
 Kinder Morgan, based in Houston, is not a natural gas producer. But two of its larger rivals are becoming more integrated production and transportation companies for natural gas: El Paso, also based in Houston, and the Williams Companies, in Tulsa, Okla.
 Mr. Feygin says he is concerned that too much of last year's share price run-up for both companies -- especially Williams -- stemmed from rising natural gas prices, which have roughly doubled over the last couple of years, to around $8 per thousand cubic feet. After all, Mr. Feygin said, exploration and production account for less than 40 percent of operating income at both Williams and El Paso.
 ''If you look at Williams's stock price, it has performed exactly in line with more pure-play producers,'' Mr. Feygin said. Williams's share price rose about 40 percent last year. So he recommends selling shares of Williams, based solely on share price, while he recommends holding on to El Paso shares, which rose about 20 percent in 2005.
 Ronald J. Barone, a stock analyst at UBS, is more bullish on Williams because, he said, the company has much larger gas reserves than El Paso. He estimates that Williams could have reserves stretching beyond 2020, which he said might even make the company an acquisition target. But he estimated that El Paso might have only five or six years of reserves, even after its $834 million acquisition last year of Medicine Bow Energy, which drills for gas in the Rockies.
 ''Williams is sitting on one of the best gas reserves in the Rockies,'' Mr. Barone said, ''and the Rockies are the only basin in the United States where natural gas production is increasing.''
 Some analysts say that natural gas fields in the Rocky Mountains may be the domestic energy industry's biggest growth story over the next decade. All three pipeline companies have made big commitments to either natural gas production or transportation there.
 Kinder and El Paso are working on two big new pipeline projects in the Rockies. They would follow different routes: El Paso is planning the ''Continental Connector,'' 650 miles of new pipeline that will link the company's hub in Colorado to points both south and east. The Kinder Morgan project, called the ''Rockies Express,'' would run 1,350 miles across the country from Colorado to Ohio. Kinder plans to build it as a joint venture with Sempra Pipelines & Storage, a unit of Sempra Energy.
 Earlier in this decade, some pipeline companies pursued quick gains in energy trading -- a business they knew little about and did not have the balance sheets to support, many analysts say. 
 Unlike many of its competitors, Kinder Morgan never became involved with energy trading. Richard D. Kinder, the chairman and chief executive, helped to found the company in 1996 when he left Enron after six years serving as its president -- long before Enron collapsed. He started Kinder Morgan with some of Enron's pipelines, which he bought when he left the company.
 But both El Paso and Williams were involved in energy trading in 2000 and 2001, during the California energy crisis. Today, they are much smaller companies after selling off assets to pay down debt. They have also wound down energy trading operations and sold off as many of their open trading positions as they could, analysts say.
 In December, El Paso agreed to sell the bulk of its trading book to Morgan Stanley for $440 million. And El Paso paid $442 million to the state of California last year to complete a settlement approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in 2003. This resolved a complaint that the California Public Utilities Commission brought against El Paso, contending that the company withheld natural gas pipeline capacity in the state during the crisis in 2000 and 2001. In the settlement, the company did not admit to any wrongdoing.
 Mr. Barone said Williams was a bit further along in paying down debt than El Paso, because Williams had more assets to sell. He said that Williams had reduced its debt to 56.5 percent of capital, compared with El Paso's debt level of 76.5 percent of capital. Mr. Barone estimated that El Paso should be able to cut debt further, to 73 percent of capital, by year-end and to 69 percent by the end of 2007. 
 There are several ways to invest in Kinder Morgan. One is the stock of the company itself. But it is also the sole general partner in two limited partnerships: Kinder Morgan Energy Partners and Kinder Morgan Management. The first owns many of Kinder's pipelines; the second collects management fees for operating them. There are tax benefits to owning and operating the pipelines this way and, by law, most profits need to be paid directly to shareholders.
 Kinder Morgan also owns pipelines outside the two partnerships, including some oil pipelines in Canada that it acquired last year when it bought Terasen, a pipeline company. Terasen also runs a gas distribution utility in British Columbia. Mr. Feygin estimates that Terasen's retail gas distribution will account for 29 percent of Kinder's operating income this year. (He expects an additional 43 percent from its stake in the two limited partnerships, and the remaining 28 percent from the pipelines that it owns outside the partnerships.)
 Mr. Feygin said that such a hefty stake in utilities could slow the company's overall growth rate, ''but that's the price Kinder was willing to pay to access the Canadian oil sands.''
 Some energy industry experts say they think that there may be more oil in the far northern reaches of Canada than there is in Saudi Arabia. But it is extremely expensive to extract this oil from the sand and to refine it. ''It's more akin to mining than drilling,'' said Mark Easterbrook, a stock analyst at RBC Capital Markets.
 MR. EASTERBROOK said that it didn't make economic sense to mine the Canadian sands in the 1990's, when oil prices were under $30 a barrel. But today, one million barrels a day are produced in the Canadian oil sands, and he estimates that this could grow to two million a day over the next five years.
 Michael Cumming, an equity analyst at Morningstar, said he liked the yields on all three Kinder stocks: around 7 percent for the two partnerships and a little less than 4 percent for the parent. Both El Paso and Williams have yields of around 1.25 percent.
 Although Mr. Cumming suggests waiting for the share prices of El Paso and Williams to pull back, he said Kinder Morgan Inc. was still below his fair-value estimate of $100 a share; it now trades at $94.06. But over all, he said, he is optimistic about the industry's long-term outlook.
 ''Commodity prices are bound to go down, so it's not a good time for long-term investors to get into commodities,'' he said. ''But I think the pipelines still have some attractive growth prospects.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kinder Morgan owns 40,000 miles of natural gas pipelines. It also owns 10,000 miles of pipelines, including these in Las Vegas, for refined petroleum products such as gasoline and jet fuel. (Photo by Rick Rainey/Kinder Morgan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); COAL MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (73%); JET FUEL (73%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BONDS (71%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (69%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Stocks and Bonds; Pipelines; Production

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (84%); WILLIAMS COS INC (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); KINDER MORGAN INC (53%)

TICKER: WMB (NYSE) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); KMI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



545 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 4940 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Down Europe's Last Ex-Soviet Dictator

BYLINE: By Steven Lee Myers. 
Steven Lee Myers is the Times bureau chief in Moscow.

 BODY:
On March 19, Aleksandr Milinkevich will not be elected the next president of Belarus. He campaigns anyway, but with something else in mind. Through the winter he has traveled from city to city in clattering rented vans, meeting would-be voters in the bleak cold, gathering signatures and speaking about the social, economic and, above all, political neuroses that afflict this small nation at the eastern edge of a new Europe. ''I am Aleksandr Milinkevich,'' he recently assured a worker outside an auto-parts factory in Borisov, a gritty industrial city northeast of the capital, Minsk. The man seemed genuinely stunned to find this stranger greeting him.
''It is impossible to win at the elections, because there are no elections,'' Milinkevich told me the first time I met him in a dim, three-room apartment in Minsk in October. ''Nobody counts the votes.'' It was my first realization that a presidential campaign in Belarus, a former republic of the Soviet Union, operates with a logic outside any traditional notion of democracy. 
 Milinkevich had just been selected, narrowly, during a congress of democratic opposition leaders to serve as a unified candidate against the country's authoritarian president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, a former collective-farm boss who, over nearly 12 years in power, has defined democracy to mean not the people's choice but the people's acclamation -- orchestrated by his government, including the ubiquitous security services, and enforced by a pervasive sense of fear.
 ''We go into these elections not because we believe in their fairness, but because this is a chance to go to the people, to conduct a campaign door to door,'' Milinkevich explained through an interpreter. ''I will not say that at every door people will become less fearful immediately. But very many people, when they see others who are not afraid, who dare to tell the truth, they will start to have more courage.'' For now, many people react uneasily when they encounter him, as if he were an apparition. In the consciousness of a people saturated with state propaganda and ideology, he appears as the shadowy leader of a revolutionary cadre financed by big powers abroad and committed to the overthrow of the government.
 Belarus, with about 10 million people in a landlocked mass not quite the size of Kansas, is a new nation and, even in the European mind, an obscure one. (A Belarussian acquaintance told me recently that a border guard at Stockholm's airport did not recognize his passport.) The country's fate has rarely been more than an afterthought in the larger struggles of competing European empires. At best it is considered the western appendage of Russia, which is what it has been historically. Its modern borders date only to the end of World War II, and except for a brief period between World War I and the consolidation of the Bolshevik revolution, it has known independence only since 1991, when the demise of the Soviet Union was officially declared -- in Belarus, in fact.
 With the presidential election scheduled for next month, though, Belarus is now the battleground for a new struggle, not between empires exactly, but over competing notions of how democracy should work in the nations that emerged from the Soviet wreckage. Following popular uprisings against authoritarian leaders in Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan, those who would like to break Lukashenko's iron grip, from President Bush to leaders across Europe, have thrown their support -- and money -- behind Milinkevich and an array of democratically minded activists determined to wake up a populace considered too passive, or too afraid, to challenge the state.
 The activists are headed for a confrontation. Milinkevich, a 58-year-old physics professor and the unlikeliest of revolutionaries, is campaigning not for the presidency but for an uprising. ''If our campaign is successful, then we will get people out into the street,'' he told me last December in Brest, a city of about 200,000 near the border with Poland. ''This is the last chance, the last battle. If we shall not stand out in the streets, the long polar night will descend on Belarus.''
 Lukashenko is prepared for unrest. Last year he eliminated a legal provision that allowed members of the police force and security services to disobey what they considered an unlawful order. A new law pushed through Parliament late last year makes organizing a public protest -- or making statements that discredit the state -- punishable by three to five years in prison. Lukashenko's interior minister recently ordered new measures to increase security before the election. A European diplomat told me that if Milinkevich's supporters gather in numbers in Minsk to protest an electoral result that is already a foregone conclusion, Lukashenko will not hesitate to disperse them forcefully. ''There is no doubt Lukashenko will issue the order,'' he said.
 Lukashenko himself said as much in a TV interview on Jan. 27: ''Any attempt to destabilize the situation will be met with drastic action. We will wring the necks of those who are actually doing it and those who are instigating these acts. Embassies of certain states should be aware of this. They should know that we know what they are up to. They will be thrown out of here within 24 hours.''
 Lukashenko, first elected in 1994 as a corruption-busting reformer in the country's last truly free election, acts as if the world were plotting to overthrow him. It is central to his cultivation of popular support and is a regular theme of the steady stream of propaganda on state television, which reports extensively on nefarious American and European -- even Russian -- schemes to subordinate Belarus. Lukashenko's speech last September to the United Nations General Assembly was a jeremiad against a unipolar world dominated by the United States and included defenses of Slobodan Milosevic and Saddam Hussein. ''If there are no pretexts for intervention, imaginary ones are created,'' he said in remarks shown repeatedly in Belarus. ''To this end a very convenient banner was chosen -- democracy and human rights. And not in their original sense of the rule of people and personal dignity, but solely and exclusively in the interpretation of the U.S. leadership.''
 In a sense, Lukashenko is right. The policies of the European Union and the United States -- supporting free news media, sponsoring civic organizations and providing assistance to the country's democratic opposition -- all seek to undermine his hold on power. With the election approaching, foreign aid has jumped in ways reminiscent of the cold war. In January the European Union awarded a two-year, $2.4 million contract to a German organization, Media Consulta, to coordinate the broadcasting of news into Belarus, hoping to break an information blockade that has left most Belarussians isolated from, and ignorant about, even neighboring countries.
 The Bush administration, which has labeled Belarus the only ''outpost of tyranny'' left in Europe, spent $11.8 million last year on democracy promotion and plans to spend $12 million in 2006. The National Endowment for Democracy, the Congressionally financed nonprofit organization that promotes freedom overseas, is spending $2.2 million more on 49 grants related to the Belarus election.
 For some time the United States spent this money openly in Belarus, as it has and still does in other countries of the former Soviet Union, including Russia. Lukashenko's government, however, has tightened controls over organizations that received American and European funds, closing many of them down. When 70 Belarussians met in a Minsk movie theater in October to hold a founding congress of an American-supported election-monitoring group called Partnership, the police arrived and arrested them all. Three organizers were sentenced to 15 days in jail; a fourth was fined.
 The money, like the organizations themselves, has now gone underground or abroad. In December, 50 representatives of foreign ministries and international groups that support democracy gathered in Vilnius, the capital of neighboring Lithuania, to try to coordinate -- and divide up -- millions of dollars of aid. Thomas C. Adams, the State Department's aid coordinator for Europe and Eurasia, described the meeting to me as a gathering of ''the Belarussian freedom industry.'' In a long day of discussions and presentations, the slickest appeal came from four young men belonging to a group calling itself Khopits, or ''enough'' in Belarussian. Using a computer and a projector, they proposed launching a secret information war, distributing leaflets, stickers and newspapers -- mostly satirical -- as well as ribbons and scarves emblazoned with the colors of the European Union.
 Khopits does not, officially, exist. In Belarus, a month after the meeting in Vilnius, I met one of those who made the presentation, who described the group and its work on condition I identify neither him nor the city he is from. He is 23 and baby-faced. ''It would be better if you described me as a woman,'' he said. Three days before our meeting, three Khopits members were arrested and jailed.
 Khopits, according to its members and sponsors, is a network of cells with dozens of activists in 60 cities and villages. It has no vertical structure or leadership. On a clear, icy day, the unnamed 23-year-old and I met at a bustling restaurant named 0.5, meaning half-liter, the size of the typical glass of beer. As we sat down, he disassembled his two cellphones, taking out the cards and the batteries as a precaution against surveillance, said to be possible even with a phone switched off. ''They listen to us, 100 percent,'' he told me, underscoring a fear of eavesdropping that is widely shared in Belarus.
 Khopits's information war is well under way. The National Endowment for Democracy, the Westminster Foundation for Democracy (the N.E.D.'s British counterpart) and the Foreign Ministry of Germany are paying for it -- with cash smuggled into Belarus in small amounts in ways he asked me not to disclose. (Representatives of Westminster and the German ministry declined to discuss their support for Khopits; the N.E.D. asked that I not disclose the amount of the assistance.)
 It is hard to gauge how effective this furtive campaign is, but the 23-year-old activist explained that even a trickle of oppositional information would seep into the cracks in Lukashenko's rule, weakening it, if not by the election, then sometime later. ''This country is not Cuba, surrounded by water,'' he told me. ''It is surrounded by civilized countries.'' Unless the borders are sealed entirely, information will still get through. ''Sooner or later we will open people's eyes, and this regime will crash.''
 The cloak-and-dagger precautions undertaken by the Belarus opposition are necessary because Lukashenko has rebuilt the security apparatus that existed in Soviet times -- the Komitet Gosudarstvennoi Bezopasnosti, or K.G.B. Fear in Belarus is pervasive: fear of the police, fear of the secret service, fear of the bureaucracy at work or school that punishes any sign of antigovernment activity. This fear extends even beyond Belarus's borders. While I was in Vilnius, a dozen young students gathered in front of the Belarussian Embassy to protest the expulsion a week earlier of Tatsiana Khoma, a fourth-year student at the Belarussian State University of Economics. Khoma was expelled for having attended a meeting in France of the National Unions of Students in Europe.
 Among the demonstrators was a young Belarussian who introduced herself, improbably, as Jane. After a while she confided her real name but begged me not to disclose it or the university she attends. She was there, she said, to try to draw public attention to Lukashenko's assault on higher education, including limiting study-abroad programs and even trips, which now must be approved by the Ministry of Education. But for her to speak openly would be to risk the fate that befell Khoma. ''It is difficult for us to do anything,'' she said, warily eyeing the embassy before rushing off.
 Later that night I received an e-mail message from her, imploring me in the subject line, ''Please, don't mention my name.'' ''Because of the law we have in Belarus, we can't say anything we think about Belorussian politics,'' she wrote in earnest, imperfect English. ''I saw you anderstant this, but I'm a little afrait.''
 That week, Milinkevich's senior campaign aides gathered in a basement office in Vilnius. They included Milinkevich's rival as the democratic opposition leader, Anatoly Lebedko, who narrowly lost in the opposition's congress in October. The office -- modern and sleek, with projectors and equipment for video conferences -- was unlike anything the opposition had in Minsk. (In fact, by January, Milinkevich's campaign still did not have an official headquarters.) The meeting took place on the day Belarus's lower house of Parliament adopted the amendments to the criminal code lengthening jail terms for those convicted of fomenting protest or criticizing the government.
 Lebedko, a former school director and parliamentary deputy, has been one of Lukashenko's fiercest critics and has paid the price. In October 2004, as protesters rallied in Minsk after the fraudulent referendum extending Lukashenko's terms, secret service officers chased him into a pizza restaurant and beat him so badly that he nearly died. Outside the restaurant several elderly women on the sidewalk chanted: ''Fascists! Fascists!''
 Lebedko, who barely conceals his disappointment at having lost to Milinkevich as the opposition candidate, has nevertheless become the campaign's chief strategist. He denounced the new amendments as an effort to instill fear and called them a sign of Lukashenko's desperation. ''Despite propaganda reminiscent of Hitler's, half the population still wants change,'' he told me, citing polls, as he and the others loaded paper plates with Chinese food provided for the meeting. ''Fifteen percent say they are willing to take to the streets. That is one and a half million people. This is our chance.''
 The meeting began. The leaders of the democratic opposition of Belarus were there to discuss politics with Terry Nelson, the national political director of Bush-Cheney 2004. In that campaign, Nelson oversaw the president's strategy of creating a vast get-out-the-vote network by organizing volunteers. ''We have neighbors talking to neighbors, and that's the way to win a close race,'' he said at the time.
 The office in Vilnius belonged to the International Republican Institute, which is partly financed by the National Endowment for Democracy. The institute's director for Belarus is Trygve Olson, a bearish campaign operative from Wisconsin who previously worked in Poland and Serbia. He went to Belarus in January 2001 and was denied a visa by April. He has worked in Vilnius ever since. On Belarussian state television, Olson has been singled out for organizing seminars like these. As the narrator of one 2004 documentary put it, ''We found out that these technologies of educating provocateurs in Nazi schools and educating the opposition leaders in Belarus are very similar.'' 
 Terry Nelson's presence in Vilnius underscored the depth of American support for Belarus's beleaguered opposition, but that support is not limited to Republicans. The National Democratic Institute operates from Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, its workers having also been barred from Belarus. The two American organizations, with a bipartisanship that is increasingly rare at home, have divided their labors: the N.D.I. works with regional groups, the I.R.I. with the national campaign.
 Nelson listened as Lebedko, Sergei Kalyakin (leader of the Communist Party of Belarus) and Aleksandr Dobrovolsky (a Milinkevich advisor) discussed the results of a poll, paid for by the I.R.I., that showed the ratings of Milinkevich and other opposition leaders all in single digits. ''You need to reach those people to reach your goals,'' Nelson said.
 The question was -- and remains -- whether an American-style campaign can work in a place like Belarus. Nelson and Olson discussed, then ruled out, such highly refined campaign tactics as microtargeting of voters based on databases with precision information about income and habits. Still, they went over the categories of likely supporters -- students, small-business men and Protestants (who face restrictions on worship in an overwhelmingly Eastern Orthodox country) -- that Milinkevich had, somehow, to reach. Kalyakin said that a majority in Belarus favored a new president, but faced with almost daily warnings on television, feared the instability or economic chaos that could follow.
 Dobrovolsky predicted that the campaign was prepared to mass 15,000 to 25,000 young people to protest the results on March 19 -- or possibly a move to disqualify Milinkevich even before the vote. He said that gathering 50,000 could prove sufficient to inspire more people to mass.
 ''Is that enough?'' Nelson asked.
 ''We will see,'' Dobrovolsky replied.
 'Only dictators fear revolutions,'' said Vladimir Kobets, who is essentially a political fugitive in his own country. He is a leader of Zubr, a youth group whose name means ''bison,'' a symbol of the country, though not one the government embraces. Lukashenko has instead revived those of the Soviet era, including the green-and-red flag of the Belarus Soviet Socialist Republic.
 If people are going to protest the election results, Zubr will provide most of the early protesters. It claims 5,000 active members and 10,000 more ''volunteers.'' Forty young people founded Zubr in a secret meeting in a national park in January 2001. Its protests -- often antigovernment antics like street performances in Lukashenko masks or graffiti campaigns -- have landed dozens of the group's members in jail. According to Kobets, nearly 100 have been beaten.
 Meeting Kobets was not difficult, but it required certain precautions. We would meet in front of a green wooden house on the banks of the Svislach River, which wends through Minsk. The house, now a museum, is where the Russian Social Democratic Workers' Party, a precursor of the Bolsheviks, held its illegal founding congress in 1898. From there we wandered aimlessly along the wide esplanades beside the river in Gorky Park before heading into a cafe, presumably safe from any unwanted listeners.
 Kobets is round-faced and wears glasses. He is no longer so young. He has a wife and two children. He has no regular job. He was arrested last August when he met two activists from Georgia, though he was released within hours. The Georgians, part of the Kmara youth group that has provided inspiration and training to Zubr, were released 10 days later, after Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, and Viktor A. Yushchenko of Ukraine intervened personally with Lukashenko.
 Kobets, like Milinkevich, doubts the possibility of having a legitimate election, largely because Lukashenko's apparatchiks control every part of it, most important the election commissions that will count the votes and report what the federal election chief in October 2004 called ''an elegant victory.'' That was when Lukashenko announced a snap referendum amending constitutional term limits and allowing him to seek re-election indefinitely. The vote was widely denounced in Europe, and an independent exit poll suggested that the referendum actually received the support of less than half the voters. But it stands anyway.
 Kobets, over coffee, said that Lukashenko's power was not as formidable as it seemed. As evidence he gave the steps the government has taken to suppress dissent: arresting protesters, expelling students from universities, banning the distribution of independent newspapers, requiring state workers to sign yearly contracts, which can be revoked after any sign of disloyalty.
 ''The problem is not Lukashenko,'' he said. ''It is the fear.''
 Zubr's newest project is to organize protests on the 16th of each month. The date commemorates the night -- Sept. 16, 1999 -- that Viktor Gonchar, once a deputy prime minister and election commissioner who became a popular opposition leader poised to challenge Lukashenko, disappeared along with a businessman who financed the opposition. On that night the two men went to a banya, the public bathhouse that is a ritual part of Slavic life. They were evidently abducted and probably murdered. The idea is to remind Belarussians of the darker episodes in Lukashenko's rule.
 On Jan. 16, several dozen young people gathered on Independence Street in the center of Minsk, which used to be named after Francis Skaryna, a Renaissance-era scholar and printer who is an important figure in Belarussian identity. (Lukashenko changed the name last year.) A kind of flash mob gathered, though unlike those stunts elsewhere the organizers refuse to use text messages. ''The K.G.B. reads them,'' a young woman named Marina said.
 They rely on word of mouth instead. Marina came to Minsk from Mogilev in the east. On the way, the police stopped the minibus she and her companions were riding in, ostensibly for a traffic violation. Two members of the group were detained. Marina and four others bolted into the forest, she told me, where officers searched for them with dogs. They avoided capture, hitched a ride and made it to the protest. She refused to give her last name.
 Marina passed out torn shreds of blue jeans; denim is now the color of this revolution in the making. (It was settled on after a Zubr activist, Nikita Sasim, waved his jeans jacket as the police broke up another 16th protest.) After 15 minutes, the Minsk protest was over, and the crowd drifted into the dark, snowy night.
 Kobets told me that Belarus's democratic activists took their inspiration from the unlikeliest of sources: a Kevin Costner film. ''The Postman,'' adapted from a novel by David Brin in 1997 and critically panned, depicts an apocalyptic America where the remnants of civilization live in terror of a brutal army headed by a sadistic general. Costner's character, a drifter, delivers a bag of old mail -- information -- and becomes a symbol of hope for those hoping to restore their American democracy.
 In this improbable metaphor, the postman would be Aleksandr Milinkevich.
 It as midafternoon in January and minus-4 degrees Fahrenheit when Milinkevich drove up to the Soviet-era auto factory in Borisov, one still owned, like most everything else in Belarus, by the state. The wan winter light was already fading as the day shift filed out. Milinkevich's campaign workers unfolded a small table, adorned with his portraits, outside the factory's entrance. Going inside, of course, was out of the question, despite the weather. A few workers sidled closer, forming around him a broken circle of overcoats and hats -- fur for the older men, knitted caps for the younger ones.
 Hatless and gloveless, his bearded face reddening from the cold, Milinkevich tried to draw out these would-be voters with the mild, inquisitive manner of a professor, which is what he was until the state fired him in 2000 for joining the campaign of a Lukashenko challenger. What followed was what passes for a public discussion of politics in Belarus today.
 ''Many people want changes,'' he said, refuting what these people are told when they watch television. 
 ''Yes,'' a voice in the circle agreed, ''very many people want changes.''
 ''Something has to be done about it,'' came a second. 
 In conversations like these, Milinkevich is asked about his policies, his prescription for jobs and wages, relations with Russia and the rest of Europe. Mostly, though, he is asked about the electoral process itself.
 No one signed the petitions on the table. A portly woman on the factory steps, smartly bundled, murmured that she would. ''No, don't do it,'' her companion said, tugging at the fur of her coat as she led her down the steps and away from the candidate. ''They will take down your name.''
 ''They,'' like the president, went unspoken, because they, like the president, are omnipresent and, at least in the public perception, which is what counts, all powerful. Two cars -- one red, one white -- followed Milinkevich's vans wherever they went, as they always do. At each stop one or more of the men inside would emerge with a hand-held video camera and record the candidate and anyone with him -- sometimes only steps away. They are -- or at least they are presumed to be -- officers of the K.G.B.
 ''Yes, I know they are watching,'' Milinkevich said earlier in another town, Zhodino, when a passer-by nodded in the direction of the stone-faced men.
 In Borisov, the shift change ended, and the pool of potential voters shuffled into the city, dispersing without having ever really assembled. A uniformed officer of the Interior Ministry kept repeating into his telephone: ''Everything is calm.''
 To travel with the Milinkevich campaign is to experience an Orwellian version of democracy. In Brest, in December, he took phone calls on a fax machine from voters who had learned he would be at that number for one hour that evening; they discovered this from reading fliers that had been distributed furtively in apartment blocks. 
 Once, after Milinkevich met with students in front of Brest State University, I lingered to talk with a student, who gave his name as Pavel Dailid. Within minutes two officers arrived and demanded my documents and those of an interpreter. ''This is the usual thing for us,'' Dailid said when they left after taking down our names and passport and visa numbers. ''I want to come out onto the street and say what I want.'' Minutes after we parted, Dailid was stopped when he re-entered the university and threatened with expulsion. When Milinkevich tried to deliver a gift of books to an orphanage, a sign declared that it was closed. The director, Valentina Kratsova, said sheepishly that a quarantine had been declared.
 Milinkevich tried to meet local activists in a community center, but that, too, was closed. They met instead in the old wooden house where he took calls the night before. The police came and threatened to call inspectors, saying an unsanctioned meeting was taking place and warning of violations of the building code.
 As a result of all this, Milinkevich often meets no more than a few dozen people in an entire day. Deprived of access to the state media, unable to assemble large crowds of supporters, he says he hopes that he can spread a message of change almost voter by voter.
 ''Democracy is not only counting votes and not only the freedom of the press,'' he told those who gathered in the old house. ''It is what is in the minds of people.''
 The meeting broke up early after the police warning. Irina Lavrovskaya, one of Milinkevich's aides, asked everyone to leave in small groups of one or two people -- ''calmly, quietly'' -- and to head in different directions.
 In January, in Borisov, Milinkevich received some parting advice from a worker at the auto plant. ''Remember what happened to Gonchar,'' the man told him. ''Don't walk alone.''
 Milinkevich is running exactly the sort of campaign that Terry Nelson suggested in the meeting in Vilnius -- the one that the International Republican Institute and the National Democratic Institute have supported with their training programs. A recent poll by the Gallup Organization/Baltic Surveys showed that three out of four Belarussians now know of him -- compared with one out of four in September -- and almost all of them have learned about Milinkevich by word of mouth. Trygve Olson said it was extraordinary that a little-known politician -- a bearded, soft-spoken professor who once served as a deputy mayor in Grodno and was the president of a basketball team there -- had made such inroads, given the pressures he faces on the campaign trail and the blackout in state media.
 Of course, Lukashenko will win -- with 75 percent of the vote, according to Milinkevich. ''He does not like figures below 75 percent,'' he said. Lukashenko, whose information apparatus portrays him as the last defense against chaos, might win in a free vote anyway. ''What can you do?'' Lukashenko told a gathering of voters late last year. ''You will elect me.''
 The secretary of the country's election commission, Nikolai I. Lozovik, told me in an interview, ''There is no basis for a mass protest vote in Belarus today.'' He also excoriated foreign meddling. ''The United States and Europe have already rejected the policy of exporting revolution,'' he said. ''I mean Lenin, Trotsky. I do not understand why these countries are now exporting democratic revolutions. What is the difference?''
 Meanwhile, Milinkevich speaks of a victory over passivity and fear. ''Our victory is more important,'' he told a sparse audience outside a factory in Zhodino. ''We want to have a victory in people's minds. If we can manage to achieve this victory, then we can go out into the streets. We will not go out with guns or stones. We will go out and show how many we are.''
 The historic model Milinkevich has in mind, which he and others repeat often, is Poland and Solidarity -- not in 1989 when the Communist government crumbled under its own weight, but in the dark days of 1980, when Lech Walesa was only beginning his campaign of dissent.
 ''There was a powerful public protest,'' Milinkevich told me in January. ''The authorities could do nothing. Martial law was imposed. And that was the beginning of the end.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE LONELY OPPOSITION: Shut out of state-owned media, Aleksandr Milinkevich campaigns one voter at a time.
THE DENIM REVOLUTION: Members of the opposition group Zubr distribute strips of blue jeans, their symbol of resistance.
 THE LEADER: Portraits of President Lukashenko, on sale in a Minsk hotel kiosk. (Photographs by James Hill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Elections; Politics and Government; United States International Relations

PERSON: Steven Lee Myers; Aleksandr G (Pres) Lukashenko; Aleksandr Milinkevich

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS (98%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Belarus; Belarus

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



546 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: 'Made in U.S.A.' Isn't a Hot Label On Goods in China

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
It has become an automatic reflex: mention the trade deficit, and the word ''China'' pops to mind. It is awfully easy to conjure images of wave upon wave of ''made in China'' stuff inundating our shores, dwarfing the influx from elsewhere. 
 Not so. Even though the ideas of ''made in Europe'' or ''made in Canada'' have no dire reverberations, both Europe and Canada send us far more goods than China does, as can be seen yet again in the latest numbers from the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
The problem is not what we are buying from China, but what China is not buying from us. You do not see a lot of ''made in U.S.A.'' labels there -- at least in part, economists say, because China's currency is kept artificially depressed, making price tags with dollar signs seem too lofty.
 While the second word the deficit brings to mind may be ''oil,'' the United States' imports of all goods from all OPEC nations were half those from China. Then again, the data shows, ''made in U.S.A.'' barely exists in Saudi Arabia. HUBERT B. HERRING


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Give a Lot, Take a Little''Exports and imports of all goods (in billions of dollars)December 2005EUROPEExports to U.S.: $30.3Imports from the U.S.: $18.5CANADAExports to U.S.: 25.5Imports from the U.S.: 17.5CHINAExports to U.S.: 20.5Imports from the U.S.: 4.2OPECExports to U.S.: 10.8Imports from the U.S.: 3.2(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Bureau of Economic Analysis

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) China; Middle East ; Europe; Canada

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



547 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Gridlock: The Movie

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
MORE than four years after the attacks of 9/11, local merchants say that Chinatown has yet to regain its economic footing. Now a Chinatown native has devised a quintessentially New York approach to the problem: make a movie. 
 The short documentary, which is called ''Clogged Arteries'' and focuses on traffic problems in the neighborhood, rests on the widespread assumption among Chinatown merchants that their economic woes stem largely from illegal parking. Residents say that since the street closings after 9/11, city workers, mostly police and court officers, have gotten into the habit of using Chinatown's streets as an all-day parking lot, wreaking havoc on deliveries and discouraging people from driving in to shop. ''The Wild West of parking'' is how City Councilman Alan Gerson describes it.
 The film was commissioned by Community Board 3 and shot on three mornings last month. Viewers see colossal traffic pileups on Mulberry Street, along with cars parked haphazardly on curbs, in front of fire hydrants and in loading zones. In one chilling scene, a fire truck is unable to turn onto a cluttered street. 
 The film also explores the frustrations of Chinatown's storeowners, several of whom appear on camera looking weary and anxious about the parking problem. ''I don't even know if frustration is the right word for how I feel about this,'' said Jan Lee, who owns Sinoteque, an antique store on Mott Street. ''We're in what I would call survival mode.'' 
 The Police Department did not respond to several requests for comment about the film or the assertions it addresses. 
 The filmmaker, Doug Moy, who was raised in Chinatown, said he was surprised that neighborhood storeowners, traditionally reluctant to publicly challenge authority, were so willing to speak out. ''There's one scene in the documentary where a truck is trying to make a delivery on Mott Street and can't get around a corner,'' he recalled. ''The merchants were literally running out of their shops yelling at me to get it on film. They were saying, 'This happens all the time.' ''
 Two weeks ago, the film was screened at a public forum sponsored by the community board. Many residents now hope the board will take the film on the road, with screenings for the Fire Department, the local Fifth Precinct and other city officials. ''I think we turned a corner,'' Mr. Lee said. ''In a 10-minute video, you can experience what a person in Chinatown goes through every day.'' STEVEN KURUTZ


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''We're in what I would call survival mode,'' a Chinatown shopkeeper said of the local parking problems. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); PARKING OFFENSES (71%); CITIES (70%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Roads and Traffic; Economic Conditions and Trends; Motion Pictures

PERSON: doug moy; Steven Kurutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; Chinatown (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



548 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2592 words

HEADLINE: The Greening of the Gold Coast

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
IF you are rich enough, or connected enough, or even just good enough to eventually tee off on the second hole at Liberty National Golf Club, you will have the exquisite experience of being able to aim your shot right at the Statue of Liberty. And from the green of the 170-yard par-3 hole, with Lady Liberty standing in a semiprofile, her right arm extended south toward the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, it will look as if America's symbol of freedom is actually tending the pin. 
 So, what price Liberty? An initiation fee of $400,000, for starters, not to mention annual membership and greens fees. Fireworks around the harbor will mark the opening of the course, along with Independence Day, on July 4.
 Two miles south, along the same rapidly changing Hudson County shoreline, sits the Bayonne Golf Club, a surreally realistic but entirely man-made Scottish links-style course that also overlooks the water and, in the windy tradition of links golf, will be subject to the harbor's blustery conditions. Initiation into the Bayonne club, scheduled to open on Memorial Day, is a relative bargain at $150,000. 
 With acquisition, construction and other costs put at $129 million for Liberty National and about $100 million for Bayonne, the two courses are among the most expensive ever built. 
 ''Both courses are spectacular,'' said Jay Mottola, executive director of the Metropolitan Golf Association, who added that Liberty National's initiation fee is near the top of the scale for the region, and that even Bayonne's is very high. ''I've had the opportunity to walk both courses, and I think they're going to both be recognized immediately as outstanding courses.''
 The nearly simultaneous opening of the two emerald gems, built on brownfields, represents a new phase in the development of the coveted stretch of waterfront between Bayonne and the George Washington Bridge known as New Jersey's Gold Coast. Whereas much of the building boom that has continued nearly uninterrupted for much of last two decades has involved office towers in Jersey City's so-called Wall Street West, and condominium villages and high-rise apartments taken up by young professionals and empty nesters farther north, Liberty National and Bayonne Golf herald the arrival of the true leisure class on the Hudson County waterfront, if only for four-hour visits before a helicopter ride back to Manhattan. 
 This golf mini-boom, which local officials say could also include two public courses within the next five years, is all the more remarkable considering that the closest thing to a golf course that the densely populated, traditionally blue-collar Hudson County has had up to now was a nine-hole pitch-and-putt course on a desolate spot off Route 440 in Jersey City. 
 ''I guess, over all, it certainly reflects the coming of age of the Hudson River Gold Coast in New Jersey,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''The gentrification, the development of Wall Street West, really to the critical mass of higher-income people make it economically desirable to develop those two golf courses. And then those golf courses become an amenity that enhances the overall market desirability of the entire waterfront zone.'' 

All That Glitters Is Green
 Indeed, some of those same alchemists who turned what was once a waterfront rust belt of rotting piers and abandoned industrial sites into gold are the ones now responsible for its greening.
 The Applied Companies, of Hoboken, which has built thousands of residential units on the Gold Coast, is a partner in Liberty National with Willowbend Development Company of Mashpee, Mass., whose chairman is Reebok International's founder, Paul Fireman. Adjacent to the golf course, the project will also include the Residences at Liberty National: three condominium towers of 33, 45 and 50 stories set to open in late 2008, billed on Applied's Web site as a ''super premium luxury condominium community.''
 But while it makes sense to view development of the two golf courses as a logical continuation of the waterfront's ongoing gentrification, the reality may not be so simple. The golf courses' developers are not counting on the surrounding population for a significant share of their membership.
 ''This isn't something for everyone,'' said Dan Fireman, a former college golfer who is president of Willowbend and the son of Paul Fireman.
 Applied's president, David Barry, said the golf courses grew out of several factors, including an opportunity to make use of silt from recent port-dredging projects around the harbor demanded by ever deeper generations of tankers and container ships. By offering their properties as so-called upland disposal sites, the developers were able to offset their costs with fees they were paid to accept the dredge material. The silt, along with mountains of construction debris and topsoil, was then used to cover up contaminants from the sites' previous industrial uses, and to shape the courses' fairways, greens, rough and bunkers. 
 ''Is it linked to gentrification of the Gold Coast?'' Mr. Barry said of golf's arrival. ''In some regard. But it's also independent of the Gold Coast.'' 
 Part of the 165-acre Liberty National, for example, sits atop an old tank farm and a site where United States Army Reserve truck drivers received blacktop and off-road training. The Bayonne course, laid out over 130 acres, sits on a 38-acre municipal landfill and a tract formerly owned by PSE&G that was once considered for a nuclear power plant.
 In Bayonne's case, the developers received about $30 per cubic yard for 700,000 cubic yards of material from four harbor dredging jobs, said Carolyn Vadino, a spokeswoman for the Army Corps of Engineers, which oversaw the dredging projects. A partner in the Bayonne project, OENJ Cherokee Bayonne, is a subsidiary of Cherokee Investment Partners of Raleigh, N.C., which specializes in brownfields redevelopment using dredge materials. Rich Ochab, a Cherokee spokesman, said the cost of preparing and placing the dredge material on the site exceeded what Cherokee was paid to accept it. 
 Cherokee was bought out of the Bayonne project last year by its partner, Empire Golf Inc., of Rancho Murieta, Calif., and the companies are in the process of severing their ties.
 ''We knew that if we were fully in charge of the development of the golf course, we'd have our own timetable,'' said Eric Bergstol, Empire's president and the course designer.
 Mr. Ochab said it was always envisioned that the partnership would dissolve. 

Whirlwind Tee-Offs
 Rather than Hudson County residents, the main target of both golf courses is Wall Street, which is why each will have its own helipad and ferry service to whisk executives back to the boardroom after a round of shot-making -- and deal-making -- on oases of fescue and bent grass that could well be visible from their corner offices in Lower Manhattan.
 In that sense, at least, the two golf courses were developed on the Gold Coast for the same three reasons that many of the residential and office projects were: location, location, location. Just as the demand for housing and office space on the waterfront has been a function of nearness to Manhattan -- a three-minute PATH ride -- so is the marketability of the golf courses. 
 And marketable they certainly are.
 For members of Liberty National, their guests, and possibly touring professionals (if the club succeeds in attracting a major tournament), a round of golf promises to be nothing short of spectacular. The 7,400-yard course combines parkland and links-style holes atop a man-made plateau 50 feet above the harbor, designed by the renowned golf architect Robert Cupp and the PGA pro Tom Kite.
 The course's namesake national monument is visible in its almost phosphorescent patina from nearly every tee and green. Adrian Davies, a former European tour player who is the club's director of golf development, said Mr. Cupp repositioned the 18th green to ensure that the view of the Statue of Liberty would not be obstructed by the 50,000-square-foot clubhouse.
 The Bayonne course, built in the spirit of the Old Course at Troon and other Scottish links courses, is visually striking, with no trees or cart paths on the steep rises and rough areas between its sharply undulating fairways. Though golfers will often face a stiff wind, an uneven lie or fatigue from walking the hilly course, the bowls sculptured by earthmovers around many of the fairways and greens promise at least a few favorable bounces per round. 
 Like Liberty National, Bayonne also offers views of the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and Staten Island -- as well as some of the shipping cranes and scrap yards that still do business around the harbor. 
 Bayonne city officials are hoping that the course will help market the former Military Ocean Terminal at Bayonne, a two-mile earthen pier rechristened the Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor in 2002, after being decommissioned by the Army and turned over to the city for redevelopment. Its civilian uses already include a Royal Caribbean cruise ship port, plus film and television studio space. A 450-unit town -house village is scheduled to break ground this spring.
 Up to now, Bayonne has lagged behind its northern neighbors in developing the Gold Coast. By contrast, projects in Jersey City, Hoboken, Weehawken, West New York and North Bergen in Hudson County and the Bergen County community of Edgewater have poured tens of millions of dollars in property taxes -- and payments in lieu of taxes -- into municipal coffers, notwithstanding the costs and complications that also accompany growth. (Neither of the golf courses will receive tax abatements, although the Residences at Liberty National will.)
 ''We're like the last frontier of the Gold Coast,'' said Michael O'Connor, executive director of the Bayonne Economic Development Corporation.
 Bayonne's mayor, Joseph V. Doria Jr., said the course would probably bring in more than $1 million a year in property taxes. He also welcomed a public walkway built by the developers on the perimeter of the course, an amenity required by state law, and one that is part of Liberty National. ''It creates an opportunity for our people to go out on New York Harbor, which they never had before,'' Mr. Doria said.
 He added that the golf course, which in the tradition of links courses has taken the name of its host community, had already focused a more flattering, upscale light on Bayonne.
 Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy of Jersey City called Liberty National ''extraordinary.'' 
 Much of the land used for the courses had been publicly owned, including the Bayonne landfill, sold by the city to the developers for $1 million, and the Army Reserve tract that Liberty National's developers bought for $8.5 million. Some open-space advocates have questioned whether the transfer of that land was sound public policy, considering how few members of the public will be able to use it.
 ''Any time you turn public property into a golf course, you've automatically eliminated its use by a huge percentage of the population,'' said Sharon Finlayson, chairwoman of the New Jersey Environmental Federation. 
 Mr. Hughes, the dean of the Bloustein School at Rutgers, said turning over public land even for exclusive uses is sometimes justified, particularly with the high cost of cleaning up contaminated property. ''To the degree that those courses enhance the desirability of those communities,'' he said, ''then it's probably a plus for public policy.''
 Ms. Finlayson said that kind of reasoning reflected an ''easy way out'' for unimaginative policy makers, too often resulting in the public's loss of open space. ''How many golf courses do we need?'' she said.
 Mr. Mottola, the Metropolitan Golf Association director, said there were 250 private courses within a 100-mile radius of Manhattan, and 200 public courses, giving the area the highest concentration of golf courses anywhere, and some of the best. In fact, five of Golf Digest's top 100 courses in the nation are in New Jersey, including the top-rated course in America, Pine Valley Golf Club in Camden County.
 Buddy Stuart, a six-time club champion at Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, N.Y., was invited by Mr. Davies, Liberty's golf development director, to walk the course last summer. ''I was very favorably impressed with what I saw,'' said Mr. Stuart, who nonetheless will not become a member. ''But I said, 'Adrian, I don't want to sound negative, but this course is constructed on a toxic waste dump.' ''
 Liberty National's developers say the PCB's, chromium and other contaminants left by the site's previous users are buried beneath as much as 50 feet of fill, and in some areas a half-inch layer of plastic. State and federal agencies approved cleanups at both courses. 
 Joe Seebode, the State Department of Environmental Protection's assistant commissioner for remediation and waste management, called the courses ''very successful projects.''
 ''They've turned brownfields into greenfields,'' he said, adding that neither project had sought state funds under a brownfield reimbursement program. 
 At the Lincoln Park Driving Range in Jersey City, Dave Moriarity was using his trusty 7-wood to hit shots just shy of a 200-yard marker. Mr. Moriarty is representative of an unheralded class of blue-collar golfers; he is a tractor-trailer driver from Bayonne, whose 8 handicap would be the envy of many millionaires. He is a ''member'' at the ultra-inclusive East Orange Golf Course in Short Hills, where for $1,000 a year he can reserve a coveted tee time on typically crowded weekend mornings. 
 ''Maybe I shouldn't have told you about it,'' he said. 
 Regarding the two new courses, he said, ''As far as the golfers in the area, it's no benefit to us.'' 

And for Golfers on a Budget
 But Hudson County residents may have their own place to play soon, under a plan from County Executive Tom DeGise for a nine-hole course on county-owned land near the driving range. Mr. DeGise said greens fees would repay bonds issued to build the course, which could be completed in 2008. 
 ''I've made it one of the priorities of mine that it would be an affordable, a municipal or county golf course,'' he said, adding that there are also plans for an 18-hole course straddling Hudson and Bergen Counties in the Meadowlands, to open in 2011. ''It ain't a knock on those golf courses,'' he said of the two private courses. ''If they bring a tournament there, and Tiger Woods is hitting a drive toward Ellis Island, I'd like to be there watching that. But that is not exactly what Hudson County needs as far as greening. It's going to exclude 98.9 percent of the golfers in the county.''
 Mr. DeGise had supported a failed plan in the 1990's to build a public course at Liberty State Park.
 Andrew Willner, executive director of the New York-New Jersey Baykeeper, said he had mixed feelings about the courses. As upland disposal sites, they provided an alternative to ocean dumping. On the other hand, they use pesticides that could drain into the harbor -- a concern the developers say has been addressed.
 ''It gives a wonderful opportunity to an elite crowd to get a remarkable view of the New York Harbor while pushing a small white ball around,'' Mr. Willner said. ''In that case, the more people who know how extraordinary the New York Harbor and estuary are, the better off they are.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, looking to Manhattan from the Bayonne Golf Club, a view of the former Military Ocean Terminal. From Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, the Statue of Liberty is visible, left. (Photographs by Dith Pran for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Bayonne Golf Club (top and left), set to open Memorial Day, and Liberty National (above and above left), opening July 4, are among the costliest built, at $100 million and $129 million, respectively. (Photographs by Dith Pran for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); POPULATION DENSITY (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (61%); HELICOPTERS (50%); EMPTY NESTERS (50%) Golf; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Golf

ORGANIZATION: Liberty National Golf Club; Bayonne Golf Club

PERSON: Steve Strunsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; Bayonne (NJ); Jersey City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



549 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Those Big Wheels Will Be Returning to the State's Local Roads

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Big rigs passing through New Jersey must be allowed to roll on local roads, according to a federal appeals court ruling last week that invalidated the state's effort to restrict double-trailer trucks and many tractor-trailers to major highways. 
 The seven-year ban violates the United States Constitution's ''commerce clause'' since New Jersey is discriminating against interstate commerce, according to the unanimous ruling of a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
''We find the state officials' contention that all highway safety regulations are entitled to deferential treatment to be without merit,'' the court said in a 17-page opinion that was released last Tuesday.
 The decision upheld a March 2004 ruling by a federal judge in Newark who had stayed his decision while the state appealed.
 No such stay was included by the circuit court, so the ban is over -- at least for the moment.
 Kris Kolluri, the acting state transportation commissioner, said last Wednesday that the state was prepared to issue emergency rules that would extend the ban to New Jersey truckers as soon as it receives formal notice from the court, probably within days.
 ''The issue for us is to balance safety, commerce with law enforcement,'' Mr. Kolluri said.
 New Jersey will ask the United States Supreme Court to hear its appeal.
 The ban prohibited double trailers and 102-inch-wide trucks from secondary and rural roads. Large trucks were restricted to major highways -- Interstates, the New Jersey Turnpike and the Atlantic City Expressway -- unless they had an origin or a destination in New Jersey.
 Under the emergency rule, all big trucks would be allowed on national and state highways, but would be barred from county and local roads, said Mr. Kolluri, who added that it would ''maintain the health and safety of our residents.''
 The original ban was challenged by the American Trucking Association, of Alexandria, Va., and U.S. Xpress Enterprises, a trucking company based in Chattanooga, Tenn., which claimed it discriminated against out-of-state truckers. Truckers said that the ban cost them millions in extra tolls and fuel.
 The Third Circuit said in declaring New Jersey's ban unconstitutional that it relied on a ruling last year in which the United States Supreme Court struck down laws in Michigan and New York that had prohibited out-of-state wineries from shipping bottles to residents of their states.
 In the trucking case, ''the regulations explicitly provide for different treatment of in-state and out-of-state economic interests by limiting the access that the latter interest has to New Jersey roads,'' said the appeals court in an opinion written by United States Circuit Judge Julio M. Fuentes. He was joined by two circuit judges, Leonard I. Garth and Marjorie O. Rendell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); TRUCKING (89%); JUDGES (89%); TRUCK SAFETY (79%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); VERDICTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); WINERIES (50%) Roads and Traffic; Accidents and Safety; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Interstate Commerce; Trucks and Trucking

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

PERSON: Kris Kolluri

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



550 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Making Public Colleges Affordable

BYLINE: By ROBERT P. HANEY Jr.. 
Robert P. Haney Jr., who lives in Holmdel, is a trustee of the Hall Institute of Public Policy -- New Jersey, in Trenton. He is a partner in the law firm Covington & Burling in New York.

 BODY:
AS any college student or parent can tell you, the cost of public higher education in New Jersey has skyrocketed.
 Over the last 15 years, average tuition increased 181.6 percent at state colleges, or about 7.1 percent a year. The average tuition at community colleges rose 98.9 percent, or 5 percent a year. These numbers far outpace inflation, which was 2.7 percent annually during this 15-year period, as well as the growth in median family income, which increased less than 1 percent over the same time span.
By any measure, public higher education has become substantially less affordable, and this has created a serious problem for the state. An educated, highly productive population benefits New Jersey in the form of increased tax revenues and decreased spending on social programs like welfare. Educated citizens also make better health and retirement choices, further reducing the demand on public resources. 
 New Jersey exceeds the national average in personal and family income in part because we have a larger proportion of households and families headed by parents with college degrees. Holding a college or graduate degree increases average household income by 35 percent. New Jersey is the seventh-largest recipient of college graduates from other states, suggesting an economy that depends heavily on people with college degrees or better.
 But rising tuition costs and dwindling state aid threaten to squander these advantages. State support has declined steadily as a share of operating expenditures for senior public institutions, dropping from 64 percent in 1994 to 56 percent in 2002. Students and their families have been forced to make up the difference. Even during good times, spending does not keep up. When corrected for inflation, New Jersey's financing of public higher education actually declined by 8 percent in the 1990's.
 In addition, state and federal financial-aid programs are not succeeding. On average, even after taking account of financial aid, students (or their families) are required to spend 27 percent of their household income to pay tuition and expenses at four-year public institutions in New Jersey. For lower-income families, that figure likely exceeds 50 percent, leading to very high attrition rates.
 How do we correct these problems?
 Start with the system we use to set tuition and fees. At present, tuition and fee increases are a result of policy decisions focused on salaries, capital expenditures and state budget contributions to higher education. After all these decisions have been made, the administrators of the various state colleges and universities are left to fill the remaining gaps by increasing tuition or cutting costs. Since most costs are fixed (such as teachers' contracts negotiated on a statewide basis), it is little surprise that students and their families are left holding the short end of the stick.
 Setting caps on tuition increases at the rate of inflation (currently about 2.5 percent annually) at the beginning of the process would force the Legislature and administrators to factor tuition into the equation earlier. While it would put administrators under pressure to control costs, it also would strengthen their hand in budget discussions with the Legislature (since they would be prohibited from increasing tuition beyond a specified rate). This would pressure the Legislature to fully finance any budget gaps and to take responsibility for tuition increases.
 In essence, capping tuition increases would force the Legislature and other participants in the process to make hard choices: hold the line on salary increases, allocate more money, cut funding for useful projects or implement broad-based administrative consolidation to cut costs. It would eliminate the easy solution of merely passing a disproportionate share of the increased cost on to students and their families in what amounts to a highly regressive tax.
 The second part of the solution would be to increase tuition assistance to maintain affordability. For example, we could set the expected family contribution as a percentage of annual income, much as financial aid is currently calculated, but in a much more systematic fashion. Data indicate that available financial-aid programs are not making public higher education affordable for low- and moderate-income students. The impact of these programs is hit or miss, with many students falling through the cracks.
 On the road to affordable higher education, there will be many challenges to overcome. The proposals I have outlined would require a substantial additional financial contribution by the state. To mitigate the impact, the state needs to enact comprehensive measures to control the cost of higher education.
 The State of New Jersey has an obligation to make public higher education affordable. It is a right for all of its citizens. All New Jersey residents pay for higher education through their tax dollars. It is not acceptable that working parents should be unable to send their qualified children to public institutions because they cannot afford the tuition. After all, these taxpayers have supported these institutions with their tax dollars for years.
 By establishing a minimum standard of affordability, capping annual tuition increases and taking new initiatives to control costs, we can begin to restore affordability to New Jersey's public higher education system.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Finances

PERSON: robert p jr haney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



551 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: He's the Guy Who Follows His Impulse

BYLINE: By NAOMI SIEGEL

DATELINE: Morristown 

 BODY:
THERE is something irresistible about Murray Burns, the free-spirited bachelor with an allergy to work and a carpe diem approach to life who is the ringmaster of Herb Gardner's 1962 manic romp ''A Thousand Clowns.'' 
 Murray is the type of man with the chutzpah to declare the birthday of the local deli owner an annual personal holiday; to spend his days in a 42nd Street movie theater rather than answer want ads; and to give his precocious young nephew and ward, Nick, a life-size model of a sexy hula dancer with a bosom that lights up. 
Winningly portrayed by Duncan M. Rogers here at the Bickford Theater, Murray drives everyone around him to the brink of insanity. Mr. Rogers, an Alan Alda look-alike, employs an engagingly deadpan manner in this charming production, directed by David Christopher. 
 ''You are not a person, Mr. Burns,'' whines a social case worker, Albert Amundson (Andrew Rein in a wry portrayal). ''You are an experience.'' 
 Mr. Amundson and his partner, a psychiatric social worker named Dr. Sandra Markowitz, appear unannounced at Murray's Upper West Side apartment, a cluttered prewar studio (designed by Will Rothfuss) with a view of the air shaft of the neighboring building -- into which Murray bellows daily wake-up calls.
 The reason for the caseworkers' visit: the powers that be at the Revere School, where Nick is a student, were alarmed by his show and tell featuring pictures from a night out with Murray at the Bambino Club and by a composition he wrote, ''The Advantages of Unemployment Insurance.'' Aware that Nick was never legally adopted by Murray after his unwed mother left him, at age 5, on her brother's doorstep, the child welfare board is preparing a case citing Murray's lack of fitness as a caretaker. 
 Nick is played to perfection by Alex Zelenty, a gifted and courageous 13-year-old actor. (He had broken his finger in gym class several hours before the performance reviewed by this critic, and managed to perform with gusto.) Nick uses all of his wiles to persuade the board of Murray's intellectual and moral superiority. Mr. Amundson is unimpressed and smugly exits, but Dr. Markowitz (Lea Eckert in an over-the-top sobfest) conveys her own feelings of inadequacy to a sympathetic Murray. Without missing a beat, she then tumbles into bed with her new ''therapist.'' Trust Nick to make a discreet retreat to the downstairs neighbor.
 Acts II and III (yes, this is one of those old-fashioned plays that runs for more than two and a half hours, a half-hour too long) feature Murray's devoted brother and manager, Arnold (Jeff Farber), and his vulgar former employer, the children's television star Leo Herman (Michael Irvin Pollard). The two desperately try to persuade Murray to return to his job as a writer for Leo's show, to prove he is a reliable guardian for Nick.
 In a scene that confirms why ''Clowns'' has remained such an audience favorite, Murray expresses to Dr. Markowitz his fear that if Nick is snatched from his care, the boy will miss knowing why ''he was born a human being and not a chair.'' With Mr. Rogers pulling out all the stops to make a strong dramatic moment out of a potentially maudlin one, this 44-year-old classic proves it still has the power to move audiences in ways that many more-cerebral efforts do not.
 ''A Thousand Clowns'' is at the Morris Museum Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road, Morristown, through March 5; (973) 971-3706 or at www.morrismuseum.org.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lea Eckert as Dr. Sandra Markowitz and Duncan M. Rogers as Murray Burns in a scene from ''A Thousand Clowns'' at the Bickford Theater. (Photo by Warren Westura)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); FILM (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); DANCE (76%); DANCERS (70%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (69%); CHILD WELFARE (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (66%); THEATER (56%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Bickford Theater (Morristown, NJ)

PERSON: Naomi Siegel; Herb Gardner; david christopher; Duncan M Rogers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



552 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2539 words

HEADLINE: Starry, Starry Night

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
THE pianist shrugged on his black velvet jacket, fluffed his thick chestnut hair and flapped his hands at his sides. Sitting down at the upright piano in his spare dressing room, the 31-year-old musician closed his eyes and lowered his head. After a few deep breaths, he roused himself with a series of sharp chords.
 ''Places, please, places,'' said a voice over the loudspeaker. The pianist, a onetime conservatory phenomenon from Ukraine named Vitalij Kuprij, walked down a narrow aisle to the stage door of Weill Recital Hall at Carnegie Hall.
''O.K., let's have fun, everybody,'' he said in lightly accented English to no one in particular. Then, at precisely 8:30 on the evening of Feb. 12 -- the night of the Great Snowstorm of 2006 -- he stepped onto the stage and into that storied rite of musical passage, the New York recital debut. 
 For decades, the New York debut has been a staple of the modern classical music career. Scores of musicians make their New York debuts every season: teachers from small colleges in the provinces, established Europeans, young Asian virtuosos fresh out of conservatory. They come not only to Carnegie's main hall and its two smaller spaces, Weill and Zankel Halls, but also to the 92nd Street Y, Merkin Concert Hall, Alice Tully and Avery Fisher Halls at Lincoln Center, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Frick Collection, which both have concert series, and churches and university auditoriums.
 They come because they yearn for notice by New York critics, New York agents and sophisticated New York concertgoers. The chosen ones are invited, marketed and paid. Most are renters. All hope the debut will help forge big careers, as it did, for example, for the pianist Andras Schiff, who made his recital debut at the Metropolitan Museum in 1982.
 For a lucky few, the event will be the equivalent of a finely embossed calling card announcing a glorious future. For the vast majority, it will be like a tree falling in the forest.
 Although major musical scenes exist in cities like London, Paris and Berlin, New York as a debut zone offers something special. ''That's where the action is,'' said the pianist Gary Graffman, who made his debut at Carnegie's recital hall in 1939 at the age of 10. ''That's where the managers are.''
 But the New York debut is not what it used to be. 
 The number of soloists has exploded, and so has the clamor for notice, particularly in the form of a review that can be excerpted for a resume. At the same time, the number of newspapers that regularly review debuts has dwindled from a half-dozen 50 years ago to one -- this one. And The New York Times, which used to cover almost all debuts, has sharply reduced the amount of space it devotes to them as it seeks to cover more concerts with a smaller reviewing staff.
 Yet, like Mr. Kuprij, they keep coming, in part because playing at a major New York hall and nakedly exposing oneself as an artist without the support of fellow musicians or a conductor has profound professional and psychological benefits. 
 ''When you appear in a very special venue like this, you just grow as an artist, very intensely, very fast,'' Mr. Kuprij said. ''It gives you a mission. It gives you purpose. It will give you a chance to really represent who you are -- not to mention you get in amazing shape. What you really gain is confidence, self-esteem.'' 
 One more thing. 
 ''You don't know who you are going to meet,'' he said. ''The perfect scenario would be after the concert, someone came to me and said, 'Here is my card.' ''

So Much Music, So Little Time
 That does not happen often.
 Agents rarely attend debut concerts out of the blue. According to David Foster, president and chief executive of ICM Artists, a major management company, it often takes a personal recommendation or good reviews from elsewhere. ''Usually,'' he said, ''given the way life is, i.e., that there are 27 things to do musically in New York, why would you go to hear someone you never heard of?''
 At the same time, the increasing cost of renting a hall closes the door to many musicians. As Mr. Foster put it, ''You can't borrow a thousand bucks from your Uncle Howard and put on a recital, which you might have been able to do in 1948.''
 Even as recently as the early 1980's, Carnegie's recital hall could be rented for about $500. Now, the price can reach $1,750.
 The impact of the New York debut has diminished for other reasons. There are more ways to build careers; with the explosion of professional orchestras in America, from several hundred a half-century ago to about 1,000 today, musicians have more chances to stand out with a concerto performance.
 At the same time, the sheer number of potential debuts has skyrocketed. In 1953, Mr. Graffman pointed out, the professional journal Musical America listed 96 professional pianists, 40 violinists and 7 cellists. The edition 50 years later listed 606 pianists, 315 violinists and 151 cellists.
 Mr. Graffman recalls very little about his first New York recital, which was not reviewed in The Times. It was a recital two years later at Town Hall that he considers his real debut. ''Master Graffman,'' the Times review said, was noteworthy for ''the technical accuracy, the limpid tone and the inherent musical feeling that marked his performances.'' Mr. Graffman went on to become a member of the virtuoso keyboard generation that included Leon Fleisher, Eugene Istomin and Van Cliburn; he is currently the president and director of the prestigious Philadelphia conservatory, the Curtis Institute of Music.

Where a Star Was Born
 It was at Curtis that Mr. Graffman crossed paths with Mr. Kuprij.
 Like Mr. Graffman, Mr. Kuprij was a prodigy with roots in the former Soviet Union. Born in 1974 in the Ukrainian town of Volodarka, he began studying piano at age 4 with his father, a professional trombonist. He left home at 12 to attend conservatory in Kiev and began winning competitions. In 1990, he attended a master class in Switzerland with the pianist Rudolf Buchbinder, who invited him to return and take lessons with him at the Basel conservatory.
 In Basel he began making a series of fruitful contacts. Through his host family, he came to the attention of the flutist James Galway, who was impressed enough to recommend him to Mr. Graffman. Mr. Kuprij was admitted to Curtis in 1995, one of only four piano students accepted that year, and Mr. Graffman became his teacher. 
 At Curtis, the pianist was a star, possessing both talent and what Ann Diebold, then the vice president for communications, described as a ''really magnetic personality.'' 
 ''The only name anyone talked about was Vitalij, Vitalij, Vitalij -- 'You've got to hear Vitalij,' '' said Thomas McCarthy, a Curtis board member. Mr. McCarthy and his wife, Sandra, were so impressed that they invited the young performer to play for a fund-raiser in Reading, a city about an hour's drive from Philadelphia, where they live.
 Mr. Kuprij graduated in 2000. Then, Mr. McCarthy said, he just ''fell through the cracks.'' As is often the case with career trajectories, it is hard to say exactly why. Perhaps he faltered because he failed to win a big competition soon after graduation, or did not acquire a prominent manager. Whatever the reason, the McCarthys, a music-loving couple who had owned several gymnastics academies and sponsored young gymnasts, came to the rescue.
 In effect, they adopted Mr. Kuprij. He now lives in an apartment in a town house the couple own across the street from their own Federal-style brick house. He eats many of his meals in their antiques-filled home and practices on a $30,000, nine-foot-long Baldwin in their living room, under an oil of Enrico Caruso. The McCarthys are helping him buy the piano.
 One January day, over slices of Mrs. McCarthy's homemade apple pie, the couple sat in their breakfast nook and talked about their devotion to the pianist.
 ''We just believe in him,'' said Mr. McCarthy, who calls his youthful-looking charge ''Coop.'' ''We believe in his talent. This guy can do anything.'' 
 His wife added: ''We're kind of like his American parents. The classical world is a tough road out there.'' 
 Mr. Kuprij is grateful. ''It's just amazing what they've done for me,'' he said. 
 Despite the stuttering of his progress, Mr. Kuprij did not give up. In 1999 he played the Liszt Concerto No. 1 with the New York Youth Symphony in Carnegie's main hall. He acquired management-- a small agency in Rome -- and continued to perform. He played a dozen engagements last year, and several with orchestras in Italy and Mexico are scheduled for this month and next. 
 Like many classical musicians starting out these days, he has expanded his boundaries, partly to make money. Mr. Kuprij began playing keyboard in rock bands with names like Ring of Fire and Artension, and composing songs for them (he also writes classical music). He released a string of CD's and became a hit on tours in Japan, where a dedicated group of fans includes a woman who sends him handmade jewelry. 
 The Weill concert had been arranged by MidAmerica Productions, a concert presenter that serves as a middleman between performers and halls. Mr. Kuprij had come to the company's attention because his manager and sometime bandmate, Chris Catena, also represents Peter Tiboris, the conductor who is MidAmerica's founder and director. Often, as in Mr. Kuprij's case, MidAmerica will rent the hall, help promote the event and take half of the revenue from the box office; the rest goes to the artist. 

Upstaged by the Snow
 On the day of his debut, Mr. Kuprij faced plenty of competition for audiences. At least 17 other classical music events were scheduled in New York. But the weather was a worse problem. That day, more than two feet of snow fell on the city, the largest recorded snowstorm in New York history.
 Speaking from Reading that morning, Mr. Kuprij put on a brave face. ''We're going to make it,'' he said. ''I'm always positive.'' 
 After three hours on the road, he and the McCarthys pulled up at the Buckingham Hotel on West 57th Street. The Buckingham had special resonance; it had been the last residence of the legendary pianist Paderewski, who made his Carnegie debut in 1891, the hall's first season. Mr. Kuprij proceeded to Central Park for his customary preconcert run, then stopped on the corner near the hall to smoke a cigarette.
 At 7:30 p.m., the elevator doors in the hotel lobby opened. Mr. Kuprij held Mrs. McCarthy's arm as they picked their way through the snow to the stage door at 56th Street, and from there to his dressing room. It was 7:43 p.m. 
 Good news greeted them: about 240 tickets in the 268-seat hall had been sold. But how many people would show up on such a snowy night? Out of Mr. Kuprij's earshot, the MidAmerica officials were pessimistic. The audience in the main hall, for the Berlin Staatskapelle conducted by Daniel Barenboim, a far glossier event, was sparse.
 In the dressing room, Mrs. McCarthy removed his concert outfit from a U.S.A. Gymnastics garment bag and polished his black loafers with a chamois cloth. As she buttoned his cream shirt and smoothed out the ruffle she had made to take the place of a tie, the five-minute warning sounded over the loudspeaker. ''I'm good with the rest, Sandy,'' Mr. Kuprij said, signaling that it was time for him to be alone. ''Thank you so much. Love you.'' 
 Mrs. McCarthy kissed him on the cheek. ''Love you, too,'' she replied.
 At precisely 8:30 p.m., Mr. Kuprij walked on stage. Mr. Graffman and his wife, Naomi, were sitting near the back, the McCarthys one row in front of them. Surrounding them was a surprisingly large audience for such a snowy night: at least 155 people, mostly elderly couples, young musicians and a few families.
 Mr. Kuprij plunged into his first piece, the Sonata in D minor, Op. 40, No. 3 by Muzio Clementi, a Horowitz favorite. This was followed by a Chopin nocturne -- Op. 27, No. 1, in C sharp minor -- and a set of Chopin etudes, their poetry and brilliance on full display in Mr. Kuprij's hands. After intermission came a wild, virtuosic rendition of the piano arrangement of three scenes from Stravinsky's ''Petrouchka.'' Mr. Kuprij then performed two of his own works, Chopin derivatives, closing with Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No. 8 in F sharp minor.
 On stage, Mr. Kuprij looked the part of the virtuosic pianist, at times gazing dreamily toward the ceiling, lifting his hands and head with a flourish at the end of a movement, and pursing his lips at intricate passages. A lock of hair dangled over his brow. The final applause was enthusiastic, and Mr. Kuprij returned for an encore.
 Just after leaving the stage, he announced, ''I guess we did it.'' 
 Back in his dressing room, alone, he sat slumped in a chair, his shirt soaked through, his hair matted with sweat. With his head down and his elbows on his knees, he looked like a boxer after a 10-rounder.
 He wasn't alone for long. The first to congratulate him was Mr. Graffman, who embraced his former student and spoke to him in Russian. 
 Later, in the lobby, Mr. Kuprij greeted friends, about 10 of whom had come from Reading. ''Unbelievable job here,'' said John Macaluso, a drummer from one of his bands. Marianne Scaduto, a 23-year-old fan who had traveled up from Florida, asked him to autograph a DVD from one of his rock concerts.
 After fans and friends had dispersed, the McCarthys and the Graffmans took Mr. Kuprij to the Carnegie Deli, around the corner. Little was said about the performance. But as they got up to leave, Mr. Graffman hugged his former student. ''Bravo,'' he murmured in his ear. ''It was a wonderful concert.''
 Later, Mr. Graffman suggested that Mr. Kuprij's nonclassical interests might have been a distraction, and that he tended to be a lazy practicer, a judgment Mr. Kuprij politely disputed. But this concert showed that his former student was on the right track, Mr. Graffman said. ''I think things are really falling into place,'' he said. ''As soon as he played the first note of the Clementi, I saw he was in very good shape.''
 Mr. Kuprij also had positive feelings about the evening. ''I was able to see as an artist where I am at after I performed, and what progress I made, and what I have to continue to work on,'' he said over the phone a few days later. ''My foundations are established, through a lot of work. I'm in a position to capture the deepest spirit of what music represents to me.''
 In the end, there was no review, no overture from an agent in the audience, no sign, at least immediately, of the big career break that a New York debut can provide. Mr. Kuprij earned $1,475.50, minus 4 percent state unemployment tax. 
 But there was an audience. And moments of the concert, like the tumultuous cascade of sound in the Stravinsky, when Mr. Kuprij's shoulders heaved as if in sympathy with the syncopated chordal stomps, seemed to drown out thoughts of managers, or reviews, or careers. 
 ''If I get a couple of phone calls from some big guns, some agency or whatever it is, that would be very helpful,'' Mr. Kuprij said. ''But I'm just as happy because I feel powerful today. This whole thing gave me a lot of hope.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PIANO MAN -- Vitalij Kuprij, who made his Carnegie Hall debut two weeks ago, onstage, above, and with Sandra McCarthy, a friend and patron. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
EN ROUTE TO 57TH STREET -- At the sponsors' home in Reading, Pa., above, and a preconcert run in Central Park.
A LITTLE NIGHT MUSIC -- ''The perfect scenario,'' Vitalij Kuprij said, ''would be after the concert, someone came to me and said, 'Here is my card.' '' (Photos by Above and below, James Estrin/The New York Times
 bottom, Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSIC (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%) Music; Renting and Leasing; Reviews; Agents (Business); News and News Media; Music

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (54%) Carnegie Hall (NYC); New York Times

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin; vitalij kuprij

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); READING, PA, USA (59%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (72%); UKRAINE (57%); FRANCE (52%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



553 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Betting on the Future

BYLINE: By Jeff Hooke and Thomas Firey. 
Jeff Hooke is the founder of a corporate finance consulting firm. Thomas Firey is the managing editor of the Cato Institute magazine Regulation.

 BODY:
THE future of thoroughbred racing in New York State will take shape in the coming weeks as a committee assembled by Gov. George Pataki and state lawmakers drafts recommendations for reorganizing the industry. The committee's ultimate decisions could have major effects on consumers and taxpayers in the state. 
 Committee members will hash over a number of issues, the most important of which involves something that has little to do with thoroughbred racing itself: the 4,500 video slot machines that will open at Aqueduct Race Track in January 2007, and that could one day be at Belmont Park and maybe even Saratoga Race Course. 
Horse racing has long been an important contributor to New York's history, economy and culture, but for years crowds at the race tracks have been dwindling as more and more New Yorkers wishing to gamble have turned to the state lottery, Off-Track Betting salons and casinos in Connecticut and Atlantic City. As a result, the New York Racing Association, a nonprofit corporation that operates Aqueduct, Belmont and Saratoga, has fallen on rough financial times. 
 The association, which will operate Aqueduct's expansion into slots along with a casino company, MGM Mirage, is hoping that revenue from the machines will allow it to get out of the red and make some money. But the problem is that the association's lease on the three tracks expires by the end of 2007. Hence, the committee's recommendations on how the thoroughbred industry will be reorganized -- and who will receive the future slots bonanza -- is of utmost importance to the financial success of thoroughbred racing. 
 Of course, a number of different groups would love a cut of that action. 
 Last summer, a coalition of racing and gambling interests known as the Friends of New York Racing proposed that New York merge the three race tracks and the state's six off-track betting operations into a for-profit entity that would be granted the Aqueduct slots license and a second slots license for Belmont. In return, the state would sell off this new entity for $465 million but continue to receive gambling tax receipts. The state would also receive a commitment from this new entity that it would use $130 million per year of slots revenue to subsidize track purses.
 A half-billion dollars sounds like a good deal for taxpayers in the state, but New York will give up too much if it accepts such a deal. We calculate that if New York reduced the annual purse subsidy to $44 million, which we believe is a more reasonable figure, and sold off those assets in an auction before multiple qualified bidders, the state could receive a whopping $2.1 billion -- with the majority of that value attributable to the revenue from slot machines. Even if New York required the $130 million annual purse subsidy, we estimate the slots licenses and other gambling assets could sell for more than $1.5 billion.
 In the best of worlds, if New York is going to expand slots, the state should allow a free, competitive market that would benefit consumers. But if the state is bent on having a constricted market tied to thoroughbred racing, then the state should extract most of the value of the slots and the racing assets and give the resulting money to state residents as tax rebates. 
 Are our estimates accurate? They might not be, but that is all the more reason for New York to auction off the slots, thoroughbred racing and off-track betting assets instead of agreeing to some stipulated price. An auction would be the best way to identify what those assets are truly worth. Taxpayers cannot afford for the state to leave hundreds of millions of dollars on the table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (91%); GAMING (91%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DIVESTITURES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CASINOS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); LOTTERIES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); AUCTIONS (66%) Horse Racing; Editorials; Off-Track Betting; Gambling; Video Display Terminals; Slot Machines; Belmont Park Race Track; Aqueduct Race Track; Horse Racing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (68%); NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Friends of New York Racing

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (56%)

PERSON: jeff hooke; Thomas Firey

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



554 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Hydrogen's Problems As Energy Alternative

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The problem with hydrogen as a fuel goes much beyond the safety issues raised in ''Alternative Fuel Loses Another Alternative'' (Feb. 19). 
Hydrogen is not an energy source, but rather an energy carrier. What this means is that we must make the hydrogen from other compounds that have the hydrogen embedded in it.
 One of those sources is natural gas. Another obvious choice is water. In both cases, it takes energy to make the hydrogen from these compounds. And in turn using energy to make the hydrogen will inevitably produce unwanted global warming gases. (Unless, of course, the power source is nuclear power.) 
 As a consequence, Federated Conservationists of Westchester County (of which I am a board member) is looking to a variety of other schemes to recommend either low-polluting measures, such as low production of global warming gases, or renewable sources for hydrogen production. While the latter seems promising, both the scale and major requirements for either wind or solar production seem very difficult at this time.
 Adding to that is the infrastructure required for nationwide distribution of hydrogen as the fuel of choice. We now have oil and gas pipelines; the costs associated with an efficient hydrogen pipeline are exceedingly high at current pricing.

Herbert Fox
Old Westbury

The writer is director, Center for Energy, Environment and Economics, New York Institute of Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); WRITERS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (65%) Energy and Power; Hydrogen

PERSON: Herbert Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



555 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Betting on the Future

BYLINE: By Jeff Hooke and Thomas Firey. 
Jeff Hooke is the founder of a corporate finance consulting firm. Thomas Firey is the managing editor of the Cato Institute magazine Regulation.

 BODY:
THE future of thoroughbred racing in New York State will take shape in the coming weeks as a committee assembled by Gov. George Pataki and state lawmakers drafts recommendations for reorganizing the industry. The committee's ultimate decisions could have major effects on consumers and taxpayers in the state. 
 Committee members will hash over a number of issues, the most important of which involves something that has little to do with thoroughbred racing itself: the 4,500 video slot machines that will open at Aqueduct Race Track in January 2007, and that could one day be at Belmont Park and maybe even Saratoga Race Course. 
Horse racing has long been an important contributor to New York's history, economy and culture, but for years crowds at the race tracks have been dwindling as more and more New Yorkers wishing to gamble have turned to the state lottery, Off-Track Betting salons and casinos in Connecticut and Atlantic City. As a result, the New York Racing Association, a nonprofit corporation that operates Aqueduct, Belmont and Saratoga, has fallen on rough financial times. 
 The association, which will operate Aqueduct's expansion into slots along with a casino company, MGM Mirage, is hoping that revenue from the machines will allow it to get out of the red and make some money. But the problem is that the association's lease on the three tracks expires by the end of 2007. Hence, the committee's recommendations on how the thoroughbred industry will be reorganized -- and who will receive the future slots bonanza -- is of utmost importance to the financial success of thoroughbred racing. 
 Of course, a number of different groups would love a cut of that action. 
 Last summer, a coalition of racing and gambling interests known as the Friends of New York Racing proposed that New York merge the three race tracks and the state's six off-track betting operations into a for-profit entity that would be granted the Aqueduct slots license and a second slots license for Belmont. In return, the state would sell off this new entity for $465 million but continue to receive gambling tax receipts. The state would also receive a commitment from this new entity that it would use $130 million per year of slots revenue to subsidize track purses.
 A half-billion dollars sounds like a good deal for taxpayers in the state, but New York will give up too much if it accepts such a deal. We calculate that if New York reduced the annual purse subsidy to $44 million, which we believe is a more reasonable figure, and sold off those assets in an auction before multiple qualified bidders, the state could receive a whopping $2.1 billion -- with the majority of that value attributable to the revenue from slot machines. Even if New York required the $130 million annual purse subsidy, we estimate the slots licenses and other gambling assets could sell for more than $1.5 billion.
 In the best of worlds, if New York is going to expand slots, the state should allow a free, competitive market that would benefit consumers. But if the state is bent on having a constricted market tied to thoroughbred racing, then the state should extract most of the value of the slots and the racing assets and give the resulting money to state residents as tax rebates. 
 Are our estimates accurate? They might not be, but that is all the more reason for New York to auction off the slots, thoroughbred racing and off-track betting assets instead of agreeing to some stipulated price. An auction would be the best way to identify what those assets are truly worth. Taxpayers cannot afford for the state to leave hundreds of millions of dollars on the table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (91%); GAMING (90%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DIVESTITURES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CASINOS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); LOTTERIES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); AUCTIONS (66%) Horse Racing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Belmont Park Race Track; Aqueduct Race Track; Saratoga Race Course (NY); Gambling; Video Display Terminals; Slot Machines; Horse Racing

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (68%); NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Friends of New York Racing

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (56%)

PERSON: jeff hooke; Thomas Firey

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



556 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: From the Silk Road to the Superhighway, All Coin Leads to China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
CHINA has such a huge stash of other countries' money that it could, in theory, hand out bonuses equaling half a year's wages to all 770 million of its famously low-paid workers. 
 The country will soon release statistics showing it has passed Japan as the biggest holder of foreign currency the world has ever seen. Its reserves already exceed $800 billion and are on track to reach $1 trillion by the end of the year, up from just under $4 billion in 1989.
But China, it turns out, has held a similar position before. 
 The current pile, much of it invested in Treasuries and mortgages on American homes, is a result of China's selling more goods than it buys, and of foreign money pouring in for the building of factories, apartment towers, office buildings and shopping malls. China is not alone; oil exporters are also piling up cash and trying to figure out what to do with it, leading to disputes like the one over a Dubai company's effort to run cargo terminals at American ports.
 History offers parallels to the yawning United States trade deficit and the resulting accumulation of dollars in China. China sells to American companies almost six times as much as it buys, but this is not the first time China has been an export powerhouse. Ancient Rome, for example, found that it had little except glass that China wanted to buy. Pliny complained about the eastward flow of Roman gold along the Silk Road in exchange for Chinese silk.
 Long-distance trade collapsed during the early years of the Dark Ages. But through the next several periods of rapid growth in international commerce -- from A.D. 600 to 750, from 1000 to 1300 and from 1500 to 1800 -- China again tended to run very large trade surpluses. By 1700, Europe was paying with silver for as much as four-fifths of Europe's imports from China because China was interested in little that Europe manufactured.
 A longstanding mystery for economic historians lies in how so much silver and gold flowed to China for centuries for the purchase of Chinese goods, yet caused little inflation in China. Many of China's manufactured goods remained much cheaper than other countries' manufactured goods until the early 1800's, despite the rapidly growing supply of silver sloshing around the Chinese economy.
 One theory is that Chinese output was expanding as fast as the precious metals supply; another is that the Chinese were saving the silver and gold instead of spending it.
 The same phenomenon has appeared today, as dollars inundating China have resulted in practically no increase in prices for most goods and services (although real estate prices have jumped in most cities). 
 China has an even easier time preventing domestic prices from rising these days because modern banking techniques allow China's central bank to buy up the dollars and take them out of everyday circulation. The central bank has accumulated the country's immense foreign currency reserves in the process.
 The British Empire figured out in the 19th century how to maintain a large long-term trade surplus with China. So far, however, nobody has suggested that the United States try to fix its trade woes using the British approach: getting millions of Chinese addicted to imported opium.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cashing In -- On the Silk Road traveled by Marco Polo, gold and silver flowed one way and goods another. Right, a gold Byzantine coin excavated from a Chinese tomb. (Photo by Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING IN CHINA (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); CLASSICS (71%); RETAILERS (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); HISTORY (66%); PRICE CHANGES (64%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) Currency; Foreign Investment; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; History

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); HONG KONG (79%) China; Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



557 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Proof of Learning at College

 BODY:
Americans generally accept on faith that this country has the best higher education system in the world, and presume that everything is going just fine when it comes to student achievement. The business community has long disputed this view, citing the large numbers of college graduates who lack what should be basic skills in writing, problem solving and analytical thinking -- the minimum price of admission to the new global economy. 
 The most recent findings from the National Assessment of Adult Literacy revealed distressing declines in literacy, especially among those with the most education. For example, fewer than a third of college graduates -- down from 40 percent a decade ago -- were deemed ''proficient'' in terms of literacy as defined by the ability to read and understand lengthy passages placed before them. A small but still alarming percentage of college graduates scored ''below basic,'' meaning that they were incapable of all but the simplest tasks.
 In response, the chairman of the Bush administration's Commission on the Future of Higher Education recently suggested that standardized tests be used to determine how much college students are actually learning. The higher education community is up in arms about the suggestion, arguing that what colleges teach cannot be fully tested and that standardized tests would only dumb down an excellent education system. Those are important arguments, but they will not end the controversy, as long as business leaders keep complaining about the suspect quality of many college graduates from both public and elite colleges. Indeed, more than 40 states have now created accountability systems aimed at having colleges prove that their students are actually learning. 
 Colleges and universities should join in the hunt for acceptable ways to measure student progress, rather than simply fighting the whole idea from the sidelines. Unless the higher education community wakes up to this problem -- and resolves to do a better job -- the movement aimed at regulating colleges and forcing them to demonstrate that students are actually learning will only keep growing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%) Colleges and Universities; Editorials; National Assessment of Adult Literacy; Reading and Writing Skills; Tests and Testing; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



558 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1751 words

HEADLINE: Counties Feel the Pinch As Sales-Tax Growth Slows

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
CONSUMERS across Long Island -- from home builders shopping for lumber to schoolchildren shopping for pencils and tourists shopping for mementos -- did not spend as much last year as officials in Nassau and Suffolk Counties had hoped.
 Sales tax collections were lower than expected as a result -- $10 million less than anticipated in Nassau County and $17 million less in Suffolk County -- and that could create multimillion-dollar budget gaps in the counties. County officials have responded by calling for strict cost-cutting measures to avoid deficits and the potential need to raise property taxes.
 Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, and Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, stressed that sales-tax revenues had continued to grow in their counties, just not quite at the rate they had projected.
 ''This slowing in the growth of sales tax is not a crisis for us,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''But it could be the canary in the coal mine that says you have to start rethinking the way you do things.'' 
 Mr. Levy said that economic forecasts for this year indicated that the economic slowdown would continue. ''That's of great concern because the slightest hiccup in sales-tax revenues can create a large hole in our budget,'' he said. ''It's good that we're getting this news early in the year. Now we need the Legislature to recognize that with potentially tough times ahead, we have to clamp down on spending now.''
 Mr. Suozzi has announced a hiring freeze, a limit on purchases to only emergency and essential materials, and the cutting of the police department's overtime budget. Mr. Levy is also considering a hold on hiring and purchasing.
 Economists and budget watchers applaud the county executives for taking steps to prevent potentially disastrous budget deficits, but the need to adjust spending has raised the question of whether the counties are too reliant on sales taxes, a revenue source that can be unpredictable.
 Sales-tax revenues account for roughly 40 percent of the budget in each county, bringing in just under $1 billion in Nassau and a little more than $1.1 billion in Suffolk. Nassau's budget is $2.4 billion, Suffolk's $2.6 billion.
 The sales tax is 8.625 percent in Nassau and Suffolk; the state receives 4 percent, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority 0.375 percent and the county the remaining 4.25 percent.
 ''The sales tax is a great tax when the economy is expanding rapidly and people are spending, and it's a poor choice when the economy is contracting and consumer spending is weak,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business organization. ''Right now we're at a point in the cycle when consumers are tapped out, and to the extent that both counties depend on sales tax for revenues, this puts them at considerable risk.''
 But there are no easy alternatives.
 Kim Rueben, an economist at the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, two research institutions in Washington, said that having budgets so dependent on sales taxes was unusual. ''That the sales tax exists at all on Long Island is somewhat unique, because most local governments are much more reliant on property taxes,'' she said. 
 But homeowners on the Island are already upset about property taxes. An income tax -- which neither county has -- would be an even more unpredictable source of income, Dr. Rueben said. ''Property taxes are the most stable, income taxes are the most volatile and sales taxes fall somewhere in between,'' she said.
 Frank J. Mauro, the executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group based in Albany, said there were advantages to having all three kinds of taxes, as New York City does. ''While both income and sales taxes have the vagaries of unpredictability, they're not unpredictable at the same time, so you balance your risk with the more diverse tax base,'' he said.
 Phoebe Goodman, the director of the Nassau Citizens Budget Committee, said that people had complained for years about the reliance on sales taxes. ''But the sales taxes have managed to hold their own and the problem is the other options, like raising property taxes or fines and fees, aren't pleasant, either,'' she said.
 Increased federal and state aid would be an answer, Ms. Goodman added, ''but that's not going to happen, so tightening the county belt is probably all we're left with.''
 In the late 1990's, Mr. Suozzi's predecessor, Thomas S. Gulotta, was often criticized for using overly rosy sales-tax estimates to balance his budgets, only to have to announce sales-tax shortfalls and budget cuts later in the year. 
 ''The major difference then was we had good growth, but Gulotta would overestimate what the good growth would be,'' said Eric C. Naughton, director of the Office of Legislative Budget Review. ''The problem this time was this was a conservative estimate to begin with and it was still off by millions of dollars.''
 The rate of growth for sales-tax revenues last year in Nassau County was 1.5 percent, well below the rate of inflation, which was 2.2 percent, and annual sales-tax growth rates in previous years, which ranged from 6.4 percent in 2000 to 3.1 percent in 2001. Nassau's rate of sales-tax growth was also below Suffolk's, which was 2.8 percent last year.
 There are different theories to explain the general economic slowdown and why Nassau seems to have been hit harder than Suffolk and other nearby counties have.
 Irwin L. Kellner, an economics professor at Hofstra University and the chief economist for North Fork Bank, said the most likely causes for the slowed growth in sales-tax revenues were rising energy costs and a general slowdown in the housing market, after several years of record growth.
 He said that sales-tax growth ''came to a screeching halt last March, right when the rising cost of gasoline became an issue and a lot of people hunkered down and scaled back their purchasing.'' 
 Sales-tax revenues in Nassau County in the months before March 2005 grew consistently at about 5 percent compared with the previous year, but the rate dropped to 2.6 percent in March and stayed below 2 percent for the rest of the year. 
 The real estate bubble on Long Island has also started to leak as interest rates have risen, Dr. Kellner said. In January 2005, the number of homes for sale in Nassau County was 12.6 percent higher than in the previous January. But by January 2006, the percentage had increased to more than 67 percent over January 2005, indicating that houses were staying on the market much longer and that the housing market had slowed considerably.
 ''That's another reason for sales taxes being down, because it means fewer families are looking to buy new furniture for new homes,'' Dr. Kellner said. The housing market in Suffolk has fared better, he added, because there is still room to build there and the market ''subsequently didn't bubble up as much to begin with.''
 Dr. Kamer, of the Long Island Association, attributed the spending slowdown to increased levels of personal debt, including credit card and home mortgage debt. 
 Weak consumer spending is very likely to continue, she added, particularly among ''recent home buyers who opted for innovative but risky financial mechanisms that came into vogue in the last two years.'' People who bought homes with interest-only mortgages, for example, will soon see their mortgages reset at higher rates and possibly find their monthly payments doubling, Dr. Kamer said.
 Howard S. Weitzman, the Nassau County comptroller, said that increased Internet sales, where buyers avoid sales taxes, had also probably hurt the county's sales-tax revenues. ''Doing a back-of-the-envelope estimate, based on national trends, we think that Internet sales are probably costing us about $30 million a year in sales tax, and that's going to continue to grow,'' he said.
 Mr. Suozzi and Mr. Weitzman attributed Nassau County's relatively poorer performance to its being the oldest and most mature of the nation's first suburbs.
 ''The main thing is we're not growing anymore,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''The population's not growing, so we don't have more people spending, and there's very little building so there's no sales tax on construction materials.''
 Mr. Weitzman said that while Suffolk has the Tanger Outlet Mall, which attracts people from outside the county, people generally do not come into Nassau to shop from elsewhere. 
 ''So it's basically how many people are in Nassau and that's static,'' he said. ''We just can't count on exuberant growth in the future, because even though people in Nassau County are famous for shopping and we do a great job keeping the stores busy, even my wife has a limit.''
 The long-term solution, Mr. Weitzman said, is to encourage the type of development that Mr. Suozzi has championed. ''We need to bring in more people from outside the county with more intensive development in downtown areas and the proposed hub development around the Nassau Coliseum,'' Mr. Weitzman said.
 Mr. Suozzi said the sales-tax shortfall ''could be a blip and it might not happen again.''
 ''But the more prudent thing to do is recognize that this new suburbia idea has come and we have to change the way we look at our future,'' he said.
 Zoning codes designed in the 1940's and 1950's have to be reviewed and higher-density, more-affordable housing is needed to keep young people and others from leaving the Island, Mr. Suozzi said. ''Recognizing that Nimby is a reality, we have to focus on new growth in targeted locations to preserve the suburban quality of life,'' he said.
 David L. Mejias, the chairman of the Nassau County Legislature's economic development committee, agreed and said that the county must work with local governments to bring new housing and businesses into the county. 
 He also took the Long Island Visitors and Convention Bureau to task for ''not doing a good enough job selling Nassau County to people outside Nassau County,'' noting that tourism is centered on the East End. 
 ''We have world-class restaurants and shopping here, but no real marketing of it at all,'' Mr. Mejias said.
 Mr. Weitzman said that ''many municipalities would envy our position with this kind of sales tax,'' but that the county must do more to expand its sales-tax base. 
 ''And we have to manage expectations regarding the growth of the sales tax and do what we can to keep expenses in line,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers at Roosevelt Field in Nassau County, top, and the Tanger Outlet Center in Riverhead, which attracts people from outside Suffolk County. Less consumer spending has squeezed county budgets. (Photographs by Phil Marino, top, and Deirdre Brennan for The New York Times)(pg. 3)Drawing (Drawing by Peter Hoey)Chart: ''Less In the Till''Both Nassau and Suffolk depend heavily on sales taxes to finance their budgets, and both counties have said in recent weeks that receipts are running below forecasts.Slowing DownChange in sales tax revenue in Nassau from the same month a year earlier.Graph tracks sales tax revenue since November 2004.Sources of SupportShare of total county budget revenue, 2005-6NASSAUSales taxes -- 41.6%Property taxes -- 30.7 %All other revenue -- 27.7 %SUFFOLKSales taxes -- 38.4%Property taxes -- 17.7%All other revenue -- 44.9%(Sources by County budgets
 New York State Department of Finance)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); COUNTIES (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); SALES TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); OVERTIME (68%) Taxation; Sales Tax; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Employees; Hiring and Promotion; Police; Taxation; Overtime; Economic Conditions and Trends; Property Taxes

PERSON: Steve (County Exec) Levy; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; Vivian S Toy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Nassau County (NY); Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



559 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Betting on the Future

BYLINE: By Jeff Hooke and Thomas Firey. 
Jeff Hooke is the founder of a corporate finance consulting firm. Thomas Firey is the managing editor of the Cato Institute magazine Regulation.

 BODY:
THE future of thoroughbred racing in New York State will take shape in the coming weeks as a committee assembled by Gov. George Pataki and state lawmakers drafts recommendations for reorganizing the industry. The committee's ultimate decisions could have major effects on consumers and taxpayers in the state. 
 Committee members will hash over a number of issues, the most important of which involves something that has little to do with thoroughbred racing itself: the 4,500 video slot machines that will open at Aqueduct Race Track in January 2007, and that could one day be at Belmont Park and maybe even Saratoga Race Course. 
Horse racing has long been an important contributor to New York's history, economy and culture, but for years crowds at the race tracks have been dwindling as more and more New Yorkers wishing to gamble have turned to the state lottery, Off-Track Betting salons and casinos in Connecticut and Atlantic City. As a result, the New York Racing Association, a nonprofit corporation that operates Aqueduct, Belmont and Saratoga, has fallen on rough financial times. 
 The association, which will operate the Aqueduct's expansion into slots along with a casino company, MGM Mirage, is hoping that revenue from the machines will allow it to get out of the red and make some money. But the problem is that the association's lease on the three tracks expires by the end of 2007. Hence, the committee's recommendations on how the thoroughbred industry will be reorganized -- and who will receive the future slots bonanza -- is of utmost importance to the financial success of thoroughbred racing. 
 Of course, a number of different groups would love a cut of that action. 
 Last summer, a coalition of racing and gambling interests known as the Friends of New York Racing proposed that New York merge the three race tracks and the state's six off-track betting operations into a for-profit entity that would be granted the Aqueduct slots license and a second slots license for Belmont. In return, the state would sell off this new entity for $465 million but continue to receive gambling tax receipts. The state would also receive a commitment from this new entity that it would use $130 million per year of slots revenue to subsidize track purses.
 A half-billion dollars sounds like a good deal for taxpayers in the state, but New York will give up too much if it accepts such a deal. We calculate that if New York reduced the annual purse subsidy to $44 million, which is a more reasonable figure based on what other states require, and sold off those assets in an auction before multiple qualified bidders, the state could receive a whopping $2.1 billion -- with the majority of that value attributable to the revenue from slot machines. Even if New York required the $130 million annual purse subsidy, we estimate the slots licenses and other gambling assets could sell for more than $1.5 billion.
 In the best of worlds, if New York is going to expand slots, the state should allow a free, competitive market that would benefit consumers. But if the state is bent on having a constricted market tied to thoroughbred racing, then the state should extract most of the value of the slots and the racing assets and give the resulting money to state residents as tax rebates. 
 Are our estimates accurate? They might not be, but that is all the more reason for New York to auction off the slots, thoroughbred racing and off-track betting assets instead of agreeing to some stipulated price. An auction would be the best way to identify what those assets are truly worth. Taxpayers cannot afford for the state to leave hundreds of millions of dollars on the table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (91%); GAMING (91%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DIVESTITURES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CASINOS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); LOTTERIES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); AUCTIONS (66%) Horse Racing; Gambling; Video Display Terminals; Slot Machines; Belmont Park Race Track; Aqueduct Race Track; Saratoga Race Course (NY); Horse Racing; Off-Track Betting; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (68%); NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Friends of New York Racing

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (56%)

PERSON: jeff hooke; Thomas Firey

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



560 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: FACTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: Younger Clerics Showing Power In Iraq's Unrest

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH and EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
American officials have been repeatedly stunned and frequently thwarted in the past three years by the extraordinary power of Muslim clerics over Iraqi society. But in the sectarian violence of the past few days, that power has taken an ominous turn, as rival hard-line Shiite clerical factions have pushed each other toward more militant and anti-American stances, Iraqi and Western officials say.
 Even Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the paramount Shiite cleric to whom the Americans have often looked for moderation, appears to have been outflanked by younger and more aggressive figures.
After a bomb exploded in Samarra at one of Iraq's most sacred Shiite shrines on Wednesday, many young Shiites ignored his pleas for calm, instead heeding more extreme calls and attacking Sunni mosques and killing Sunni civilians, even imams, in a crisis that has threatened to provoke open civil war. 
 On Saturday, Iraqi political leaders from across the spectrum joined with Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari in a televised show of unity to try to quell the violence. President Bush telephoned several leaders to urge them to return to talks. [Page 10.] 
 Earlier, as the critical moment of Friday Prayer approached, American officials and their allies were left almost helpless, hoping that Iraq's imams would step up to calm the crisis. But that hope gave way to the realization that the clerics could do as much harm as good, and for the first time since the toppling of Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi authorities imposed a daytime curfew to keep people from attending the sermons. 
 ''Sectarian divisions are not new, and sectarian violence is not new,'' said a Western diplomat in Baghdad who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to be seen as interfering. ''What is different this time is that the Shiites, in a sign that their patience is limited, reacted violently in a number of places.''
 The violence and new militancy has come in part from a competition among Shiite factions to be seen as the protectors of the Shiite masses. The main struggle has been between the leading factions, both backed by Iran, and their spiritual leaders. 
 Many of the retaliatory attacks after the bombing were led by Mahdi Army militiamen loyal to Moktada al-Sadr, the Shiite cleric whose anti-American crusades have turned him into a rising political power. 
 His main rival, Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, a cleric and the leader of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, or Sciri, defended the right of Shiites to respond to the bombing. He has shown a new willingness to publicly attack the American role in Iraq, once the preserve of Mr. Sadr, and he also commands a powerful militia, the Badr Organization.
 ''There are clerics who are very moderate and who understand what the current situation demands, and there are clerics who have political agendas and who marshal forces for their own gain,'' said Joost Hiltermann, the Middle East director of the International Crisis Group. ''Those are the dangerous ones.''
 The more political clerics, Mr. Hiltermann added, ''are quite willing to push their agendas no matter what it might lead to, including civil war and the breakup of the country.''
 The violence and escalating rhetoric among Sunnis and Shiites has left the mostly secular Iraqi leaders favored by the United States farther than ever from power.
 ''I think people are rapidly losing confidence in the political class, and I don't blame them,'' said Adnan Pachachi, a former foreign minister and a member of the shrinking secular alliance led by the former interim prime minister, Ayad Allawi.
 Shiite clerics were not the only ones whose power was on display this week. As the violence escalated after the shrine attack, some Sunni Arab religious leaders tried to rally Sunnis in Iraq and other Arab countries to ever more aggressive stands. Members of the Association of Muslim Scholars, a hard-line Sunni group, have cast the violence as part of a broader struggle between Sunnis and Shiites across the region.
 Most religious leaders condemned the violence. But some, including many who also play roles as leading politicians, continued to fuel their followers' sense of grievance about the shrine bombing and the reprisals.
 The fact that many hard-line political leaders are also clerics complicates the situation. The Iraqi leaders, for instance, can say one thing to American officials while spreading a different message to a vast network of followers through mosques and militias. After Mr. Hakim on Wednesday accused the American ambassador to Iraq of being partly responsible for the Samarra bombing, he distanced himself from the statement and met with the ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad.
 But on Friday, clerics loyal to Mr. Hakim's political party, Sciri, repeated the accusation against Mr. Khalilzad, and it quickly spread to the street, with some Shiites rallying in the southern city of Basra to demand Mr. Khalilzad's removal.
 To some, the crisis of the past few days has underscored a longstanding American failure to reach out effectively to moderate Islamists who might give them better access to the Iraqi masses. 
 From the earliest days of the occupation in 2003, American officials seemed to place most of their faith in secular figures like Mr. Allawi and Ahmad Chalabi, believing they had popular support. They also gave posts of authority to Mr. Hakim and other conservative religious figures, thinking they would play a lesser role in the new Iraq. But Mr. Hakim and others used their positions to help build their political base.
 ''The Americans knew what was coming, but they underestimated the power -- they thought they could control the power of the clerics,'' said Hatem Mukhlis, a secular Sunni Arab politician who met with President Bush before the war.
 Despite Iraq's relatively secular government over the past century, the country remains a part of the broader Islamic world, where bonds between religion and state are deep. 
 Iraqi Shiites in particular have rallied around their religious leadership before, most recently in the uprising against Saddam Husseinin 1991, but also earlier, as in the revolt against the British in 1920.
 ''What's happened over the last three years is that there has been an ongoing crisis,'' said Laith Kubba, a former adviser to Prime Minister Jaafari who is now out of politics. ''Even many Iraqis didn't accurately foresee the situation, that in an Iraq so highly polarized, religious leaders would become the rallying points.''
 Clerics have never been as influential among Sunnis in Iraq, who lack the religious hierarchy of the Shiites. Partly for that reason, the Sunnis were unable to organize as effectively as the Shiites, who dominated the January 2005 elections.
 But the example of the Shiites, who formed a powerful political alliance under Ayatollah Sistani's guidance, pushed Sunnis toward their own religious leaders in the December vote.
 ''In the last election, they saw themselves in danger, so they decided to elect a Sunni list,'' said Saleh Mutlak, a Sunni Arab leader whose secular party received far fewer votes than the Iraqi Consensus Front, a Sunni group with a strong religious bent.
 To some extent, the American government did recognize a need to court moderate religious figures who could play roles in Iraq's future. Even before the 2003 invasion, American officials allied themselves with exiled clerics like Ayad Jamal Addin and Sheik Abdel Majid al-Khoei, a member of one of Iraq's most prominent Shiite families.
 But the Americans seemed unaware of the complex and deadly rivalries among Iraq's religious factions. After being brought back to Iraq by the Americans in 2003, Mr. Khoei was stabbed to death in the Shiite holy city of Najaf by followers of Mr. Sadr. That killing led the American occupation authority to issue an arrest warrant for Mr. Sadr, which was dropped after he led two bloody uprisings in 2004 and became one of Iraq's most powerful figures.
 Mr. Sadr's family has long been engaged in a rivalry with the Shiite religious establishment in Iraq, known as the Hawza. Under the rule of Saddam Hussein, Mr. Sadr's revered father, Ayatollah Muhammad Sadiq al-Sadr, was one of the few clerics to openly defy the dictator. He also expressed contempt for Ayatollah Sistani and other senior clerics, calling them the ''Silent Hawza'' for their complacent attitude in the face of tyranny. The young Sadr claimed his father's mantle after Mr. Hussein had the elder Sadr and his two eldest sons killed in 1999.
 The militancy and growing power of Mr. Sadr and Mr. Hakim are upending the Shiite hierarchy, in which four grand clerics in Najaf are supposed to wield the most influence. When Mr. Sadr led his two anti-American uprisings in 2004, taking the city of Najaf hostage, Ayatollah Sistani initially watched helplessly from his home there.
 The stridency of Mr. Sadr and Mr. Hakim has also contributed in pushing the older clerics to adopt a more aggressive tone toward Sunni militants, especially as the patience of the Shiite people wears thin in the face of relentless slaughter. After the shrine bombing on Wednesday, Ayatollah Sistani called on ''believers'' to defend religious sites if the government was unable to do so -- exactly the same language that Mr. Sadr used in telling the Mahdi Army to defend places of worship.
 The tensions between Mr. Sadr and Mr. Hakim have affected virtually every aspect of Iraqi society. Each man has staked out territory in the police and commando forces by swelling the ranks of those units with their militiamen. This month, Mr. Sadr played the role of kingmaker by throwing his support to Mr. Jaafari during a Shiite vote for the prime ministerial nominee, effectively blocking Mr. Hakim's candidate. Occasionally the rivalry explodes into violence, as it did last summer when Sadr militiamen stormed Supreme Council offices across the south.
 Given all this, and amid the growing sectarian bloodshed, the voices of religious moderates like Ayatollah Sistani are increasingly falling on deaf ears. Shiite tribes ''have put a lot of pressure on Sistani in the last year to go for revenge,'' said Mr. Hiltermann of the Crisis Group. ''People are just not listening anymore in the face of these sick outrages.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraqi women displayed a portrait of the radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr after Friday Prayer in Najaf. (Photo by Ali Abu Shish/Reuters)
Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, right, head of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, or Sciri, shown Feb. 12 with Adel Abdul Mahdi, an economist and Sciri member who lost his bid to become prime minister. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 NEW VIOLENCE -- A relative grieved near the body of one of 12 members of a Shiite family killed by gunmen yesterday in Baquba, Iraq. Page 10. (Photo by Hellmiy al-Azawi/Reuters)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (95%); RELIGION (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); POLITICS (88%); CIVIL WAR (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); TERRORISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); RIOTS (72%); CURFEW (72%); CHURCH & STATE (72%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Demonstrations and Riots; Terrorism; Islam; Politics and Government; Church-State Relations

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Robert F Worth; Edward Wong; Moktada Al- Sadr; Abdul Aziz Al- Hakim; Ali Al- (Ayatollah) Sistani

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) Iraq; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



561 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Running Out of Options as It Scrambles for New Loans

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
Somehow, some way, at some point in the future, city officials here will need to pay back all the money they are borrowing. In the meantime, though, the Mardi Gras parades must still be protected, the police must still patrol the streets and the garbage must be picked up. 
 And so, even though the city has already racked up $120 million in debt, officials here are scrambling for loans of as much as $200 million more so that New Orleans can continue to pay its bills through the end of the year.
''We can't keep borrowing money,'' said Oliver M. Thomas Jr., the president of the New Orleans City Council. ''But the need for fire protection doesn't just go away. At some point, we need to rebuild our parks and restart recreation programs as children and families start coming back.'' 
 Youth programs, however, are the least of the city's problems right now. With its credit rating downgraded to junk-bond status, it is not clear how the city will even find the money to maintain its most critical services, like police and fire protection. Though the city has already laid off nearly half its work force, New Orleans still needs $150 million to $200 million in 2006 to fill the huge hole that Hurricane Katrina blew in its budget, said Reginald Zeno, the city's finance director. 
 The lost revenues include tens of millions of dollars in property taxes that will go uncollected in a city in which more than 80,000 homes, according to state estimates, were severely damaged or destroyed. With more than half of New Orleans's populace still living elsewhere, sales tax collections are less than half of last year's levels. 
 ''We put together a bare-bones budget last fall, but we still don't have the resources to fund it,'' Mr. Zeno said. 
 Mardi Gras should provide some relief. Crowds were sparse through the first weekend of the eight-day festival, which resumed Thursday and continues through Tuesday, but officials here remain optimistic that it will prove a boon to the economy and, by extension, the city coffers.
 Yet even a healthy Mardi Gras would provide only temporary relief to a city that has been falling deeper into debt with each passing week.
 The federal government is one potential source of money, Mr. Zeno said, but the city has already borrowed $120 million from the Treasury, and any more will require Washington to lift its ceiling on such loans. 
 Commercial banks are another option. But even before Hurricane Katrina, New Orleans had a subpar BBB+ debt rating. Since the storm, the rating has been ''severely downgraded'' to a B, which is junk-bond status, said Alexander M. Fraser, an analyst at Standard & Poor's, the bond rating agency. The low rating makes it much harder to receive commercial loans. 
 J. P. Morgan Chase, which has a large presence in New Orleans, is working to raise a $150 million line of credit on the city's behalf. The company has agreed to commit $50 million of its own money, said Donald E. Wilbon, who leads the firm's public financing group in the southeastern region, but whether other banks will take the same risk remains unclear. 
 ''It's a challenge putting together a syndicate given the situation here,'' Mr. Wilbon said. Typically a city would secure such a bond using future property tax collections as collateral, but the reliability of those revenues is just one more unknown in this city where so many big questions remain unanswered. 
 ''It's a dire situation,'' said Janet R. Howard, chief executive of the Bureau of Governmental Research, a nonprofit policy organization based in New Orleans. 
 One thin ray of sunshine in an otherwise dreary picture are sales tax collections, which Mr. Zeno described as ''a little more robust than we were initially projecting.'' But good news is relative in a city suffering through what some have dubbed the worst municipal financial crisis in the nation's history. 
 The city collected $5 million to $6 million a month in sales taxes in the last quarter of 2005, Mr. Zeno said. That compares with the $12 million to $13 million it averaged each month before the hurricane, which covered about one-third of the city's pre-storm $470 million operating budget. 
 The sales tax, which includes a tax on hotel rooms, is now the city's primary source of revenue, Mr. Zeno said. 
 Mardi Gras should produce at least a modest increase in the February sales tax figures, Mr. Zeno and others said, with hotels fully booked.
 Several large hotels, including the Ritz-Carlton and the Fairmont, are still closed, but there are still about 20,000 hotel rooms housing guests. (Roughly half of those are occupied by insurance teams, contractors, news organizations and others taking up temporary residence here.) The city receives $1.50 for every $100 spent on a local hotel room.
 According to one recent study, Mardi Gras usually contributes roughly $16 million to the city coffers, even after subtracting police overtime, garbage pickup and other additional costs associated with the festivities. But of course this is anything but a typical year.
 Echoing a sentiment expressed by others, J. Stephen Perry, president of the Metropolitan Convention and Visitors Bureau, predicted that Mardi Gras would generate 50 percent to 60 percent of the economic activity of past years. But he is not worried so much about today as the time between Fat Tuesday and the city's Jazz and Heritage Festival, which starts in late April.
 ''We're really going to struggle this spring,'' Mr. Perry said. The city was scheduled to play host to 70 major conventions this year but instead will hold only 15. 
 Unlike the federal government, which habitually spends more than it collects, state and local governments must balance their annual budgets. The city has laid off most of its planners, building inspectors and demolition employees, said Deputy Mayor Greg Meffert, at a time when their services are needed more than ever. 
 ''I don't know what else we can cut when we've already laid off all these people whose skills we could use right now,'' Mr. Meffert said. The city has 20 percent fewer police officers today than before Hurricane Katrina, and 9 percent fewer firefighters.
 Shortly after the storm, the city received a $90 million public assistance grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. In October it borrowed $120 million under a $1 billion emergency federal loan program Congress set up in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
 That represented the maximum New Orleans could receive under FEMA's rules -- a limit set at 25 percent of a city's pre-disaster revenues. So while President Bush has proposed setting aside an additional $400 million to help local governments devastated by the storm, the city would not be permitted to borrow any more money unless granted an exemption.
 The city is lobbying the federal government to bump that limit to 50 percent so it can borrow another $120 million. One advantage in borrowing from the federal government, Mr. Zeno said, is that ''those terms are much more favorable to us than a private bank loan.'' 
 Another advantage is there is always a chance the city will not have to pay the money back.
 ''We're going to ask Congress at some point to forgive these loans and make them grants,'' said John Neely Kennedy, the state treasurer. 
 The state could also prove a lifeline for a city in need of cash. This month state lawmakers approved participation in a federal loan program that would let the state borrow $200 million on behalf of local governments -- as long as the state provides a dollar-for-dollar match. Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco has endorsed the proposal, but it is still not clear where the state, which is struggling through budget woes of its own, would find the matching funds, Mr. Kennedy said.
 ''We're better than we were, but we're not well yet,'' he said. ''Parishes, particularly New Orleans, still need help.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Deputy Mayor Greg Meffert said city planners and building inspectors had been laid off, ''people whose skills we could use right now.''
 Reginald Zeno, New Orleans's finance director, said the city needed $150 million to $200 million in 2006 to fill the huge hole in its budget. (Photographs by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); CITIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MARDI GRAS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (87%); SALES TAX (86%); PROPERTY TAX (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); EASTER SEASON (77%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (77%); CHILDREN (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); FAMILY (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Carnival (Pre-Lenten); Floods; Levees; Credit; Ratings and Rating Systems; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Taxation; Property Taxes; Sales Tax

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



562 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Polar Bears Dry Before Plunge

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: POINT PLEASANT BEACH, N.J., Feb. 23 

 BODY:
Every winter since 1994, valiant, half-naked men and women have plunged into the needle-cold Atlantic here to raise money for the Special Olympics. And not surprisingly, many of them have come out of the water hankering for a celebratory warm-up.
 But after the latest swim at noon on Sunday, the thirstiest so-called polar bears may be disappointed. At the request of the Borough Council, bars on the boardwalk will be closed all day, while several of the liquor stores and restaurants downtown will also hold off on alcohol sales until after lunch. And next year, participants in the Polar Bear Plunge will dive in from somewhere else. 
Mayor Thomas Vogel said the charity swim, which attracts about 7,000 swimmers and spectators, has simply outgrown its roots in a summer Shore community with only 5,300 winter residents and 26 full-time police officers. 
 Marc Edenzon, president of Special Olympics New Jersey, agreed. ''It's a big event,'' he said. ''We get a wonderful following. It just may not be the venue anymore.''
 Yet despite the veneer of politesse, the economic boost the event provides and the courting of the plunge by other communities, officials and merchants suggest that the borough's rejection of it has less to do with size than with the day's excessive drinking. 
 According to Police Chief Daniel J. DePolo, the event has become like a tailgate party at a football game, an all-day affair that has led in recent years to several drunken-driving accidents, fights, public urination and drug arrests.
 Since roughly half the swimmers work in law enforcement, he added, many of the offenders are off-duty officers, who sometimes resist enforcement efforts by the local authorities.
 ''We try to use some discretion and get them to cooperate, but it all just puts us in a very tough spot,'' Chief DePolo said in an interview at his office, half a mile from the beach. ''To some degree, it does overwhelm us.'' 
 The crowd control problems, all sides agree, are partly a function of growth. When James Smit, a detective with the Berkeley Township police, organized the first Special Olympics plunge in New Jersey here 12 years ago, fewer than 100 people participated.
 The following year, three times as many swimmers showed up, raising nearly $40,000 for the Special Olympics, and every year, the numbers have grown. 
 Last year, about 2,600 people splashed into 39-degree water for the cause, raising $540,000 and making the plunge one of the most lucrative Special Olympics fund-raising swims in the country. 
 In interviews, Mayor Vogel and Chief DePolo stressed that they support the cause. They also acknowledged that most of the crowd leaves by sundown, sober if chilled, and that the plunges in 2003 and 2004 went off without a hitch. 
 But in other years, troublemakers have created a hurricane of havoc, they said. In 2002, a car driven by an off-duty police officer from Brick Township crashed into a parked vehicle, and landed on the local school superintendent, critically injuring him. The superintendent recovered. The disposition of the case could not be learned.
 Last year, Chief DePolo said, the plunge led to eight ''incidents,'' including a fender-bender involving an off-duty officer from another town who, after several drinks, backed his car into a Point Pleasant Beach police car assigned to DARE, the antidrug program.
 Even when the atmosphere is calmer, he said, policing the apres-swim party poses a challenge.
 The 20 or so seasonal officers, who usually work only during the summer, have it especially tough, because members of full-time departments sometimes refuse to take them seriously, Chief DePolo said. So this year, at the borough's request, 10 state troopers will offer additional help. 
 ''Officers brings their friends, their brothers, their families, so you have a large crowd of people who are connected to law enforcement,'' Chief DePolo said. ''These are people who have to be persuaded to cooperate a little more than others.''
 Longtime participants are skeptical of the officials' assessment.
 Harry Takourian, 51, a construction manager in Bergen County, said that in a dozen years of taking the plunge, he had never seen the kind of rowdy revelry described by borough officials.
 ''This isn't the infield of the Kentucky Derby,'' he said. ''A lot of kids are down there, and they raise a lot of money.'' 
 Cpl. George Duffy of the Bay Head Police Department, owner of a custom-made bathrobe emblazoned ''first in, first out,'' said that most officers who visit know their limits. He usually has two or three beers with old police academy classmates and heads home before dinner, he said. 
 ''It's a social day for me,'' said Corporal Duffy, a friend of Officer Smit and a high school classmate of Chief DePolo. ''It's not about the drinking. It's a good day for a good cause.''
 Some retirees and workers who were near the beach on Thursday were also not as hostile to the event as local officials suggested. Tim Adams, a contractor, said the borough ''was creating a double standard,'' stoking tourism during the summer only to demand temperance during the winter. 
 Some business owners seemed distraught at the decision to drop the plunge. Marilou C. Halvorsen, director of marketing for Jenkinson's Boardwalk, a seaside recreation area, said that the restrictions on alcohol would eliminate much of the income that offset the businesses' donation of food, tents and labor for the event. Like many here, she said that the heaviest drinkers and the crankiest residents should be blamed for forcing the exile of a rewarding tradition.''It's a shame, it really is,'' she said. ''A select few are going to ruin this event that benefits so many people.''
 But one community's loss may be another's gain. Seaside Heights, a borough about 10 miles away, has been courting the Polar Bear Plunge for months, and its officials hope to make next year's swim the most lucrative, well-attended winter event on the Jersey Shore. 
 ''If people come here, we make money,'' said Peter Smith, a spokesman for Seaside Heights. ''And that's a good thing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Police Chief Daniel DePolo says rowdy revelers pose problems.
 Eileen Keefe, left, and JoAnn Loughran walked on Thursday along the boardwalk at Point Pleasant Beach, N.J. Tents were set up in preparation for the Polar Bear Plunge, a swim to benefit the Special Olympics. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); BEACHES (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (75%); RETAILERS (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (70%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%) Swimming; Special Olympics; Philanthropy; Bars; Weather

ORGANIZATION: SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (94%)

PERSON: Damien Cave

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Point Pleasant (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



563 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Man in the News; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 925 words

PERSON: Thomas R. Suozzi 

HEADLINE: A Dazzling Upstart -- Thomas Richard Suozzi

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Feb. 24 

 BODY:
Just five years ago, Thomas R. Suozzi was barely known outside his little hometown of Glen Cove, population 27,000, where he was the mayor. Now he reigns as the alpha male of Nassau County, population 1.3 million, which resoundingly re-elected him last fall for a second term as county executive.
 At 43, Mr. Suozzi (pronounced SWAH-zee) remains a relative unknown beyond Long Island. But that is changing as he begins his campaign for the Democratic nomination for governor of New York, population 19 million. 
 Even for a young man in a hurry, his planned trajectory seems daunting. Skeptics scoff at his chances of beating the nationally known front-runner, State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, who is far ahead in the polls, fund-raising and endorsements.
 Mr. Suozzi readily concedes it is a long shot. ''Oh, absolutely,'' he said in an interview. But he relishes the role of the underdog and outsider, and his past has shown how he can continually defy expectations.
 Admirers call Mr. Suozzi a blend of studious policy maker, polished debater and charming glad-hander. Poring over the minutiae of budgetary line items or a PowerPoint presentation on revamping agencies into ''vertical'' groups, he is in wonk heaven.
 But Mr. Suozzi can also dazzle a crowd. Telegenic and ethnically attuned --he is of Italian and Irish descent and his wife is Polish-American -- he says ''thank you'' in Turkish, Korean, Swahili and a couple of dozen other languages. At a Boy Scout display at a street fair, Mr. Suozzi reels off the Boy Scout oath rapid-fire.
 Throughout Mr. Suozzi's career, advisers have sought to talk him out of his ambitions. ''My own father tried to keep me out of politics altogether,'' urging a business career instead, he said.
 But politics is a dominant gene in the family. The elder Suozzi, Joseph, himself a former Glen Cove mayor who once ran for county executive, became a State Supreme Court and Appellate Division judge and is now is in private practice. Thomas Suozzi's uncle, Vincent, previously served as mayor. A cousin, Ralph, recently took over as Glen Cove's fourth Mayor Suozzi.
 Mr. Suozzi's early career suggested that he would follow his father's advice to stay away from politics.
 Mr. Suozzi, a product of a Catholic high school, Boston College and Fordham, began working at the Arthur Andersen firm and was certified as a public accountant. Then he switched professions to become a business lawyer.
 But before long, his family's political traditions proved irresistible. When the Democratic nominee for Glen Cove mayor dropped out at the last minute, Mr. Suozzi filled in as the substitute candidate. He lost that race, but never lost again. He rebounded to win the next election, in 1993, and has held public office ever since.
 Finding Glen Cove's treasury bare, he raised taxes once but froze them the rest of his tenure and focused on renovating the downtown and the waterfront.
 In 2001, Mr. Suozzi moved to a bigger stage by seeking the county executive post. Friends told him he was crazy to challenge the party's popular chairman, Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, who had decided to run for the office. Beyond the primary, the Democratic nominee would face the Nassau Republicans, renowned as that party's strongest machine in the nation.
 Nassau was adrift, mired in debt, mismanagement and corruption. Despite an economic boom and an affluent population, the county begged for bailout aid from the state, which provided it, but imposed an oversight board. A study of 20 populous counties around the nation ranked Nassau as the worst-run.
 Against the odds, Mr. Suozzi won the primary and general election, becoming Nassau's first Democratic executive in three decades.
 He promptly applied the Glen Cove formula, raising the county property tax 19 percent, then freezing it. He changed deficits into surpluses, cut borrowing and debt, wrung concessions from the unions, shrank the work force to its smallest in 30 years, and claimed that the county won more credit upgrades than any other government entity in the nation. He became president of New York's County Executives Association, leading a campaign that capped state Medicaid charges.
 Governing magazine named Mr. Suozzi one of the top public officials of 2005, lauding him as a ''high-voltage transformer.'' 
 Mr. Suozzi's ascent has been turbulent at times. He has a brash temperament, with an angry voice that sometimes echoed through the corridors of Glen Cove's City Hall. Though he is now more controlled in public, he still rankles some people, like fellow Democrats in the County Legislature. Two of them allied with the Republicans for several weeks this year, paralyzing that body. A top Suozzi aide's primary challenge for county executive in adjacent Suffolk infuriated party leaders there.
 Republicans still rail about Mr. Suozzi's one-time tax increase and his endorsement of a developer who proposed a 60-story tower. Although Mr. Suozzi takes credit for cleaning up favoritism and corruption, scandals forced out two deputy executives, nonbid contracts went to a Glen Cove law firm allied with him, and critics call his fund-raising tactics heavy-handed.
 Mr. Suozzi tries to deflect such attacks. When a critic badgered him with questions at a meeting in Farmingdale last fall, Mr. Suozzi answered each one. Unsatisfied, the man said, ''I'm trying to think of a reason to vote for you, I really am.'' 
 Mr. Suozzi replied, ''What are you doing for dinner tomorrow night?'' The remark won over the audience, if not the critic.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas R. Suozzi yesterday with his wife, Helene. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) Biographical Information

ELIOT SPITZER (57%) Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; Bruce Lambert

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



564 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: What Is an Oil Company, Anyway?

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SOMETIMES I wish that the whole world celebrated a Teachers' Day. It would demonstrate our gratitude to the magnificent teachers we have had during our lives. 
 I think of Ms. Bratt, my third-year Latin teacher in high school, who had us all dress in togas and read Cicero's Catilinarian orations. I think of my great first-year Humanities and Contemporary Civilization teachers at Columbia, Mr. Fiering and Mr. Rothschild, and my disturbingly on-target teacher of Eastern European history, Mr. Rothstein.
And I especially think about my great economics teacher, C. Lowell Harriss. On the very first day of class, he changed my world view when he said, ''Now, when I say 'corporate shareholders,' think 'widows and orphans.' '' 
 This admonition comes to mind when I read the recent criticism of oil company profits. (I guess that the criticism is mostly of Exxon Mobil's profits; many other oil companies are not showing profit gains.) But when I hear representatives and senators speaking about the supposed wrongs of oil company behavior, I go back to my great Professor Harriss and think: ''Wait a minute. These guys are asking us to punish oil companies. But what do they mean when they say 'oil company'?'' 
 What is an oil company anyway? Consider Exxon Mobil, the largest domestic oil company and the largest stockholder-owned oil company in the world (though far smaller than many state-owned oil companies like Aramco or Pemex). 
 Exxon Mobil has about 85,000 employees. An overwhelming majority are working in oil fields producing oil, working in refineries making gasoline and heating oil from crude oil, shipping oil on large ships, taking orders for energy products, filling out forms, making sure machinery does not break down. 
 They are making sure that the computers are running, serving lunch in the cafeteria, writing speeches for the top executives, filling out medical care forms, driving vans. When Hurricane Katrina devastated southern Louisiana, many of them took to their boats to help people and animals stranded in the high waters, then worked full time to get their refineries running again. 
 Are we angry at them? I can tell you, since I am close friends with a man who wrote speeches for a top executive, that they are not wildly well paid, particularly by Wall Street or Hollywood standards. Out of the 85,000, only a few earn more than a million dollars in salary a year, which is training-wheels pay for investment banks or big Hollywood talent agencies. 
 Are we angry at them for high oil profits? If so, why? All they are doing is providing us with our energy and our heat and our locomotion as well as they can at reasonable pay. 
 I have spent some time in this space talking about executives who reap millions from their companies while their employees suffer. That is not the case at oil companies, or at least not at Exxon Mobil. Its executives pay employees decently, take care of their medical bills even in retirement and do not drain hundreds of millions of dollars out of employee pay to make themselves rich. If the executives of Exxon Mobil become rich (and some do), they do it through long years of making the company profitable, not through vampirizing their employees. 
 Are we angry, then, at the owners of the oil companies? Maybe, but then it's self-hatred. Roughly 41 percent of Exxon Mobil stock is owned by retirement funds, private, public (federal, state and local) and individual retirement accounts. In other words, by us. 
 It is demonstrable that many retirement funds hold a great deal of oil stocks, including Exxon Mobil. Of the other owners, the largest holdings by far are at mutual funds and exchange-traded funds -- generally vehicles for middle-class investors and retirees. 
 No individuals own more than 1 percent of the stock, and the largest single personal holding, representing far less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the company, is owned by Lee R. Raymond, the retired chief executive, who took the company through some very rough sailing to arrive at its present, fairly secure position.
 ONE of the largest holders is the College Retirement Equities Fund, for higher-education teachers and others. Are we angry at them? If teachers get a bigger retirement because oil company profits are up, are we sad? 
 So, when gasoline and heating oil prices go up -- prices that are set by the markets, not in the Exxon Mobil boardroom in Irving, Tex. -- why are we angry at the schoolteachers and retired police officers who own Exxon Mobil and who can now buy new golf clubs? 
 We can be angry at ''them'' all we want, but it does not make a lot of sense because, at the end of the day, ''them'' is us. Or as Pogo Possum, a cartoon figure of the past, used to say, ''We have met the enemy and he is us.'' And thank you again, Professor Harriss.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HEATING OIL (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CLASSICS (73%); BULK SHIPPING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HISTORY (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (61%); HURRICANES (61%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); TALENT AGENTS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%)

PERSON: Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



565 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Blame the Fund Manager, or the Face in the Mirror? 

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy

 BODY:
 @nytimes.com.
MOST mutual fund investors have only themselves to blame if their portfolios seriously lag behind the market. That is the conclusion of a new study that says the typical investor has an atrocious sense of timing.
 People tend to dump mutual funds just before the funds enter several-year periods of above-average performance, and to buy funds that are about to sag. In fact, the study found that the performance of most fund portfolios would improve markedly if the owners just left well enough alone.
The study, ''Dumb Money: Mutual Fund Flows and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns,'' was conducted by two finance professors, Andrea Frazzini of the University of Chicago and Owen A. Lamont of Yale. A copy is at http://mba.yale.edu/faculty/pdf/lamontdumb--money.pdf. 
 Investors tend to blame fund managers for poor returns, but the professors argue that this is not entirely fair. By focusing on the decisions that investors make in shifting money into and out of various funds, the professors found that managers were more victims than perpetrators. ''It is hard for a fund manager to be smarter than his clients,'' the researchers wrote. And, on average, according to the study, those clients are really ''dumb'' about which funds should be bought and sold.
 To illustrate, the researchers point out that investors in 1999 sent $37 billion to the equity mutual funds in the Janus fund family but only $16 billion to those at Fidelity Investments, even though Fidelity's domestic stock funds had three times more assets under management. Undoubtedly, this was motivated in large part by the Janus funds' heavier technology allocation.
 Over the next two years, of course, the Internet bubble would burst and technology stocks in general, and Janus's funds in particular, would perform horribly. If investors had not so heavily favored Janus over Fidelity in 1999, they would have lost a lot less money during the bear market of 2000 to 2002.
 The professors concede that this example is extreme. But based on their analysis of domestic equity mutual funds from 1980 to 2003, they emphasize that it is by no means unique.
 They reached this conclusion after comparing the stocks that were most popular among mutual funds with those most out of favor. To identify these stocks, the professors looked at the percentage of each stock's outstanding shares owned by mutual funds. They calculated the change in that percentage attributable to investors favoring some funds over others, an indicator they called flow. The 20 percent of stocks with the most negative flow over the trailing three years -- those with the biggest decline in fund ownership -- performed 10.7 percent better per year, on average, than the 20 percent with the most positive flow.
 That means investors who bought the stocks with the most negative flow and sold short an equal dollar amount of the positive-flow stocks would have had a 10.7 percent return each year, on average. And such a strategy would have been very low-risk, because it involved no bets on the direction of the overall market. To be sure, the professors did not take transaction costs into account, so an investor's actual returns in following this strategy would have been lower. But the professors emphasize that because turnover was low, those returns would have still been substantial.
 The professors had another reason to be confident that they were onto something important. They found that the performance of stocks whose flow percentages were between the two extremes fell right into line -- improving, on average, as the flow became more negative. 
 Each transaction in the hypothetical portfolios was made by using information that was publicly available on the transaction date. In principle, any investor could use this strategy by finding data on mutual funds' holdings and their assets under management -- data that is available from the Securities and Exchange Commission and from investment Web sites. In practice, however, the required calculations would be daunting. 
 BUT don't worry about that. Even if you don't perform any of those calculations, you may be able to profit from the professors' insights. Just by sticking with the funds you own or by investing in an index fund that mirrors the market, you can resist the temptation to buy the flavor of the month and dump a short-term loser. That alone would improve returns for the average fund investor, according to the professors.
 Bold investors may want to go a step further, by using an active reallocation strategy that is contrary to what most people are doing. That means shifting money away from funds that are receiving the most inflows and into funds that are suffering the most outflows.
 This idea, however, is not for the weak of heart. The professors found that the funds receiving the most inflows typically enjoyed a momentum period of several months, outperforming the market before they reversed course and become laggards. It takes rare courage to stick with a contrarian strategy at such a time. Consider all the investors in the late 1990's who couldn't stick with value funds in the face of growth funds' stunning gains.
 But, as was so amply illustrated after the Internet bubble burst, the rewards of avoiding the most popular funds can be enormous.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Don't Follow the Money''A new study has found that investors regularly shift money out of mutual funds whose stocks are about to start outperforming the market, and into funds whose stocks proceed to lag.Graph tracks annualized return of stock portfolios based on changes in mutual fund ownership, 1983-2003.Graph highlights stocks most sold by funds that investors are leaving as well as stocks most bought by funds that investors are shifting into.(Sources by Andrea Frazzini, Owen A. Lamont)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); BONDS (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%) University of Chicago; Yale University

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%)

PERSON: Mark Hulbert; Andrea (Prof) Frazzini; Owen A (Prof) Lamont

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



566 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: For Ken Lay, Enron's Riches Turning to Ruin

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and KURT EICHENWALD; Alexei Barrionuevo reported from Houston for this article, and Kurt Eichenwald from Dallas.

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
For Kenneth L. Lay, it has been a true reversal of fortune -- and not just in the courtroom.
 Once at the pinnacle of Houston's financial and political elite with a fortune worth as much as $400 million, Mr. Lay, the former chairman of the Enron Corporation, is now facing financial ruin.
While he has talked about his shrinking wealth since Enron's collapse, he has managed to keep up appearances, continuing to live in a full-floor apartment in the city's affluent River Oaks section. But already, according to personal financial records obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Lay has fallen out of the ranks of the city's millionaires, with a stated net worth of less than $650,000. 
 And that financial assessment is probably on the optimistic side. His assets, for example, include $1.9 million held in a trust that is almost sure to be eaten up by legal fees. 
 In addition, Mr. Lay, 63, faces potential liability from lawsuits that were filed against him by shareholders and others after Enron's collapse that would almost certainly force him into personal bankruptcy. Mr. Lay may also be forced to forfeit his remaining home, along with some other assets, if he is convicted in the criminal fraud trial that is now taking place in Houston.
 Not everyone involved in the Enron debacle, of course, has fared as poorly as Mr. Lay. 
 Jeffrey K. Skilling, his co-defendant and onetime successor as chief executive, emerged from the Enron collapse in far stronger financial shape, mostly because his stock was not encumbered by loans as Mr. Lay's was, and he cashed out a big chunk of his holdings before Enron's troubles were exposed.
 Other high-level executives who were never charged with wrongdoing -- including Lou L. Pai, who once ran Enron's retail operations, and Rebecca Mark-Jusbasche, the former head of its international effort -- left the company with tens and hundreds of millions of dollars, which they have retained. 
 Mr. Lay's failing fortune underscores a recurrent -- but often overlooked -- theme in recent corporate collapses. Despite the public image of corporate chieftains at scandal-plagued companies escaping the debacles with their pockets stuffed with cash, several have been pushed far down the road toward insolvency long before a civil or criminal judgment is entered against them. 
 In a number of cases, that is because the chief executives were as reckless with their personal finances as they were with the management of their companies. Bernard J. Ebbers at WorldCom and John J. Rigas at Adelphia Communications, both convicted of fraud, borrowed hundreds of millions of dollars from their businesses to purchase their own companies' stock.
 When the companies collapsed into bankruptcy, those shares were worthless, but the executives still owed the money.
 Mr. Lay, for somewhat different reasons, finds himself in a similar situation. As a result, analysts said, Mr. Lay's finances appear tattered beyond repair -- regardless of the outcome of his criminal trial. And that is just the way it should be, lawyers for shareholders contend.
 ''If the message that emerges after WorldCom and Enron is that the executives who preside over corporate fraud are ruined, that is a message I support 100 percent,'' said Sean Coffey, a shareholder lawyer. 
 Michael W. Ramsey, Mr. Lay's lead criminal lawyer, said his client's financial collapse underscores that his sales of Enron stock in the company's waning days were not motivated by knowledge that it was failing. He said the defense would make clear during the trial that Mr. Lay never profited from the sale of Enron stock.
 ''Ken Lay put his money where his mouth was,'' Mr. Ramsey said. ''He held as many shares of Enron stock as he possibly could. He never sold, other than by forced sale, which led to his financial ruin. Ken was a company man to the end. And he suffered all the financial consequences of that decision, along with all the other employees, who he has deep sympathy for because he shared their fate.''
 To be sure, Mr. Lay has sufficient cash to cling to a few scattered vestiges of his old lifestyle. He and his wife Linda still occupy the same apartment in an expensive condominium building in the wealthy River Oaks section of Houston. The apartment, however, cannot be sold because it is subject to forfeiture in the criminal case.
 On days when he is not on trial, where he is accused of conspiring to defraud investors in the company he helped build, Mr. Lay spends time at the exclusive River Oaks Country Club, takes walks past the finely manicured lawns of his neighborhood and dines at some of his favorite restaurants, including La Griglia, a bustling Italian eatery known for its power lunch clientele.
 But today, Mr. Lay has expenses that were never part of his previous life. He has spent $20 million of Enron insurance proceeds for his defense, including money supplied to Carrington, Coleman, Sloman & Blumenthal in Dallas, which is defending his civil case and providing legal support in the criminal case, according to one lawyer involved with the case. 
 In addition, Mr. Lay has spent $5 million of his own money and has $4 million in unpaid legal fees. He has paid $2.7 million of the $3 million fee his Houston defense lawyers, Michael W. Ramsey and George M. Secrest, are charging. Mr. Lay also agreed to pay Carrington, Coleman hourly for court time.
 In all, Mr. Lay has already spent $25 million on his defense and expects to spend close to $30 million in total, the lawyer said.
 Those additional legal costs only worsen an already grim financial picture. The $650,000 net worth figure includes a $1.9 million note receivable, money that is payable to Mr. Lay from a trust established to hold his legal fees. Most, if not all, of that money is likely to be used up in the criminal and civil litigation. 
 The asset picture is not pretty. In early 2001, the year his company collapsed, Mr. Lay owned marketable securities of $339 million. Today he possesses less than $1,500, according to the records. His current assets -- excluding the note receivable for $1.9 million -- are just under $220,000. His retirement benefits, once worth $68 million, have fallen to $3.5 million. 
 Almost half of his total assets, or $4.2 million, is in real estate -- mostly his apartment. 
 All told, Mr. Lay has $10.6 million in assets, the documents show, weighed against current liabilities of $9 million, plus an additional $930,000 in longer-term liabilities. 
 Of course, there will always be those who suspect that executives like Mr. Lay managed to squirrel away millions offshore, in secret bank accounts, but that seems more the stuff of a Grisham novel than a reality here. Such transfers would have left a trail, and after four years of investigation -- in which government prosecutors have subpoenaed every bank and financial record and interviewed all of his financial advisers and accountants -- no evidence of such hidden cash reserves has been found. Indeed, Mr. Lay's financial picture matches what lawyers who are suing him said they expected to find. 
 In the end, legal analysts said that the collapse of Mr. Lay's personal finances seemed a natural result of the way his wealth was formed: through the growth of a company that proved to be a management debacle.
 ''We shouldn't feel guilty for enjoying the fact that these people are no longer wealthy,'' said Stephen Meagher, a former federal prosecutor who is now a lawyer in private practice in San Francisco. ''I find it hard to feel bad for Ken Lay. Many, many other people lost their wealth and were put into poverty by the Enroncollapse. But whether he is guilty is a question for a jury.''
 If his personal finances are on his mind, Mr. Lay has not let on. In the courtroom, he is a picture of stoicism. He barely speaks to reporters or even to his own lawyers while in the federal courthouse here. More often than not, he takes notes, glancing up only occasionally to study the jurors. 
 In better times, Mr. Lay, the son of a Baptist preacher who grew up dirt-poor in rural Missouri, was a quintessential self-made man who learned to carry the trappings of corporate wealth and power with ease. He was prominent in Houston's high-level business and social circles, setting up a charitable foundation that made him one of Houston's biggest philanthropists. .
 But now Mr. Lay faces the consequences of a process he helped usher into being. In the wake of Enron's spectacular collapse, the federal government and civil plaintiffs' lawyers have sought to essentially impoverish executives involved in corporate malfeasance. And if they are convicted of a crime, the powerful forfeiture and money-laundering laws can be used to squeeze them dry.
 Mr. Ebbers of WorldCom, for example, agreed last September to pay $45 million in cash and assets as part of $6.15 billion in legal settlements for victims of the WorldCom fraud. Civil lawyers, working with prosecutors, scooped up nearly all of Mr. Ebbers' personal fortune of about $40 million.
 His family was left with $50,000 in cash and his home in Jackson, Miss., worth a few hundred thousand dollars, Mr. Coffey said. Mr. Ebbers was once worth $1 billion on paper. 
 Mr. Coffey is now the lead lawyer pursuing money from Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of HealthSouth, who was acquitted last June of a $2.7 billion fraud. Mr. Coffey said he is undaunted that the acquittal will make it tougher to win a civil case against Mr. Scrushy. The standard of proof in civil cases -- as was demonstrated in the successful wrongful death lawsuit against former pro football player O. J. Simpson after he was acquitted of murdering his ex-wife -- is much lower than in a criminal case. 
 ''We plan on doing an O. J. with Mr. Scrushy,'' Mr. Coffey said.
 William S. Lerach, the plaintiff's lawyer who is leading the charge in the civil case against Enron and its executives, said he does not expect to get any money out of Mr. Lay, mostly because the Justice Department and federal regulators are bent on engineering Mr. Lay's financial ruin. 
 ''When you get caught up in a fraud of the size and extent of Enron,'' Mr. Lerach said, ''I don't think as a C.E.O. you can ever get rid of it. It haunts you until the day you die. For him, there is no way out.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth Lay and his wife, Linda, leave court. Mr. Lay's net worth is below $650,000, a far cry from the roughly $400 million it once was. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LITIGATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); ETHICS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); SCANDALS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (57%) Suits and Litigation; Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants; Securities and Commodities Violations; Bankruptcies; Millionaires and Billionaires; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ethics; Legal Profession

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); TIME WARNER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp; Enron Corp

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%); TWX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo; Kurt Eichenwald; Kenneth L Lay

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



567 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: The Conservative Imagination

BYLINE: By GEORGE F. WILL. 
George F. Will is a syndicated columnist.

 BODY:
THE MAKING OF THE 
 AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE MIND
 National Review and Its Times.
 By Jeffrey Hart.
 Illustrated. 394 pp. ISI Books. $28.

IMPOSTOR
 How George W. Bush Bankrupted America and Betrayed the Reagan Legacy.
 By Bruce Bartlett.
 310 pp. Doubleday. $26.
IN 1950, in ''The Liberal Imagination,'' Lionel Trilling noted ''the plain fact'' that there were then no conservative ideas ''in general circulation.'' And, indeed, in 1955, when William F. Buckley started National Review, conservatism was a small church militant in an unconverted world. Conservatives were marginal and embattled, but happy. Since then, they have made their long march through the institutions -- executive, legislative, judicial, even journalistic. (Only academic institutions have largely repelled conservatism.) Yet today conservatives are far from serene, for two reasons. 
 One is success: the conservative persuasion now has numerous adherents -- arguably a majority of Americans. Hence there are many conservative sects and factions -- and fractiousness. Second, during conservatism's years as merely an opposition movement, it lacked the power to please interest groups by delivering government benefits. Hence it was interested in ideas to a degree unusual among American political movements. Having honed strong, clear convictions about government before experiencing the inevitable compromises involved in actually governing, many conservatives have found governance discomfiting. 
 Jeffrey Hart's ''Making of the American Conservative Mind'' is a relaxed amble along conservatism's path to the present. Bruce Bartlett's ''Impostor'' is symptomatic of the way many conservatives developed a thirst for fights over ideological purity during the wilderness years, and today slake that thirst by fighting one another. They do so partly because liberalism, in its current flaccidness, offers less satisfying intellectual combat than conservatives can have intramurally. Bartlett is angry as a hornet but, like a hornet, he stings indiscriminately.
 For more than three decades, Hart, an emeritus professor of English at Dartmouth, has been a senior editor of National Review. There he has seen, and helped to referee, conservatism's struggles of self-definition. His book is a gossipy memoir leavened by a quick skimming of 50 years of political history. ''I confess,'' he says, ''to a fondness for gossip, which, indeed, is a conservative genre. Gossips do not want to change the world; they want to enjoy it.'' National Review, however, wanted to change the world. This project got off to a rocky start because the magazine went slumming with Senator Joseph McCarthy in the mid-50's, reflecting in part its populist antipathy for the national elites.
 A benign example of what Hart calls Buckley's ''intermittent'' populism was his famous, and sincere, avowal that he would rather be governed by the first 2,000 names in the Boston telephone directory than by the Harvard faculty. But Buckley's upbringing and temperament made him a singularly unsuitable vessel for populism. His aim has been to nurture a conservative intelligentsia.
 To that end, the magazine's Manhattan office became a nest of intellectuals. Buckley, a cosmopolitan from Yale, and his sister Priscilla, his managing editor from Smith College, built the early National Review around James Burnham (Princeton and Balliol College, Oxford), Frank Meyer (Princeton, Balliol) and Russell Kirk, the author of ''The Conservative Mind'' (1953).
 Conservatism in the 1950's and 60's was energized by the intellectual tension between Kirk, with his stained-glass mind, and Meyer, an ex-Communist who recoiled from the Kremlin to Monticello. ''Kirk's Man,'' Hart writes, ''is the Man of the Church, the university, the library, the community, Aristotle's Man of the Polis. Meyer's Man is Man against the Sky, creating himself in perpetual acts of choosing.''
 Meyer, Hart says, ''attacked Kirk as setting forth no discernible political principle.'' Kirk, with his Wordsworthian worry that getting and spending we lay waste our powers, represented an impulse that sometimes threatens to turn conservatism into an aesthetic pose. This impulse made National Review vulnerable to what can be called the Southern temptation, the idealization of an imagined cavalier culture immune to secularism and materialism. Hart, to his great credit, does not flinch from recalling a repellent sample of what the magazine said in 1960, before, in Hart's words, it ''let the magnolias go'':
 ''In the Deep South the Negroes are, by comparison with the whites, retarded. . . . Leadership in the South, then, quite properly, rests in white hands. Upon the white population this fact imposes moral obligations of paternalism, patience, protection, devotion, sacrifice.''
 The tension between Kirk and Meyer prefigured today's tensions between ''social conservatives,'' who take their bearings from European and religious thinkers, and minimal government conservatives, whose formative influences were Friedrich Hayek's and Milton Friedman's writings on political economy and Barry Goldwater's sunny Southwestern libertarianism.
 The social conservatives might wonder whether someone can be conservative without being religious. That question, although a hardy perennial on the right, is silly: George Santayana and David Hume were the former but not the latter. By contrast, Hart the provocateur declares that ''populism is never conservative, except by accident.'' He thinks the evangelicalism that propelled the ascent of George W. Bush is populism sublimated in religion, and he says Bush's election was ''the political high-water mark of America's third Great Awakening.'' A Roman Catholic convert, Hart tartly wonders, ''What exactly was conservative about this form of religious expression, with its roots in the camp revivals?'' 
 What, Bruce Bartlett asks, with his answer indicated by his indignation, is conservative about George W. Bush? Noting that Bush has said, ''We have a responsibility that when somebody hurts, government has got to move,'' Bartlett exclaims: ''A more succinct description of liberalism would be hard to find.''
 Well. Defining liberalism -- or conservatism, for that matter -- is not Bartlett's strength. His preoccupation is economic policy. He does, however, understand the problematic nature of ''compassionate'' conservatism. If compassion is always government's business, government's business is unlimited. He is also robust in voicing familiar conservative complaints about the Bush administration -- its incontinent spending, its traducing the principles of federalism with the No Child Left Behind Act's intervention in education from grades K through 12, and so forth. 
 Sometimes Bartlett is a tad too robust. His chapter ''Why the Bush Tax Cuts Didn't Deliver'' might be more convincing were the economy not in the fifth year of a humming expansion. And when he says the law establishing the Medicare prescription drug entitlement ''may well be the worst piece of legislation ever enacted,'' one wonders what consideration he has given to, say, the Fugitive Slave Act.
 And after excoriating Bush for the tariffs he put on steel, he properly acknowledges that they probably won Bush the last few Congressional votes he needed for the authority crucial to promoting free trade. Furthermore, Bartlett has a keen understanding of how muscular interests use government, as when ''California cement producers lobbied to protect the endangered brown pelicanin order to prevent construction of a new terminal in Redwood City for the importation of foreign cement.''
 Bush -- granted, his party controls Congress -- is more of a tax cutter than was Reagan, who signed tax increases in 1982 (twice), 1983 (twice), 1984, 1985 (twice), 1986, 1987 (twice) and 1988. So Bartlett faults Bush for the wrong kind of cuts. Citing, among other things, the 2002 farm bill, Bartlett says Bush the spender is utterly unlike Reagan. He may not remember this: ''Through target prices, support loans and other programs, our administration has provided more support to our nation's farmers this year than did the administrations of the last five presidents all put together. Because this year alone, we'll spend more on farm support programs . . . than the total amount the last administration provided in all its four years.'' The farmers hearing that 11-minute Reagan speech at the 1986 Illinois State Fair interrupted it with applause 15 times.
 Bartlett's book, arriving as the Abramoff scandal gathers steam, will fan the flames of anger about ''the tendency of right-wing politicians to declare Washington a cesspool and then go there and treat it like a hot tub.'' But one wishes he had engaged the most interesting ideological development of the Bush years, the argument for ''big government conservatism.''
 The argument is that the way ultimately to reduce the supply of government is to reduce the demand for it. And the way to do that is to use government boldly to build individuals' capacities -- moral and material -- for self-sufficiency. The response to this is that energetic, interventionist government is inevitably corrupting -- that the more government shapes the allocation of wealth and opportunity, the more energy will be diverted to bending public power for private advantages. To the extent that this view is correct, the distinction between social conservatives concerned with virtue and libertarians concerned with limited government blurs: small government is good for the soul.
 Conservatives at daggers drawn with one another (and those who take pleasure in conservatism's discontents) will enjoy both of these books, especially Hart's. His history is occasionally shaky (for example, the Berlin Wall went up in 1961, not 1962; it was in 1980, not 1976, that Ted Kennedy challenged President Carter). But his analysis is sprightly and stimulating. And there is a surprising tinge of melancholy in his account of the ''tectonic shift'' in the rise of Sunbelt power: 
 ''Being displaced was the old Republican elite, based for generations on the wealth generated by hard men dealing in hard substances: coal, iron, steel, railroads, shipping, oil-drilling machinery. . . . This old elite, as is characteristic of elites, was beautiful in many ways, as were its social and educational institutions and its manners. . . . But now that elite was facing a lethal challenge, or challenges, from the direction of actuality.''
 In the, say, 15 minutes it has taken you to read this review, the center of the nation's population, which is now about 125 miles southwest of St. Louis, has moved another 6.3 inches south and west. Things may still be moving conservatives' way, but as these books show, it is not clear what that way is.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Russell Kirk
William F. Buckley Jr.
James Burnham
 Frank Meyer (Photos courtesy of Intercollegiate Studies Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (96%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: INTERCOLLEGIATE STUDIES INSTITUTE (59%) National Review (Magazine)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (90%) George F Will; Jeffrey Hart; Bruce Bartlett; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



568 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-26-06: ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: No Left Behind

BYLINE: By William Safire. 
Send comments and suggestions to: safireonlanguage@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
''Let us make sure no Democrat is left behind,'' said a Florida campaign organizer in the last midterm election.
''No Vote Left Behind'' is the name of a hard-money political action committee in Seattle that takes pride in faithfully reporting to the Federal Election Commission. 
 In Nebraska, three young men dressed in long-tailed tuxedo coats and bow ties protested President Bush's tax cuts with signs reading, ''No millionaire left behind.'' 
 On rare occasion, a political phrase becomes a template for a variety of causes. In this case, the originating phrase is ''No child left behind,'' popularized by Marian Wright Edelman of the Children's Defense Fund in 1993. President Reagan had told the National Council of Negro Women in 1983 that he had ''begun to outline an agenda for excellence in education that will leave no child behind.'' 
 Another great template phrase is ''We are all. . . now.'' 
 After the 9/11 attacks, the French newspaper Le Monde, usually disdainful of the U.S., declared in sympathy, ''We are all Americans now.'' The Boston Globe columnist Ellen Goodman wrote, ''Midwesterners who long regarded the city as if it were a foreign capital know that 'we are all New Yorkers now,''' a phrase used at the same time by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 ''We are all Danes now,'' The Brussels Journal declared this year, asserting freedom-of-expression solidarity with the Danish newspaper that published a group of cartoons causing Muslim groups to launch a furious taking-offense offensive. The same sentence appeared in a headline in The Boston Globe (which evidently admires this construction) over a stirring column by Jeff Jacoby.
 The phrase is bottomed on ''We are all Keynesians now,'' startling the economic world when spoken in 1965 by the free-market conservative Milton Friedman; Lord Keynes was the exemplar of the school of government activism in driving the economy. Friedman's temporary concession was repeated in 1972 by President Richard Nixon.
 John Fund of The Wall Street Journal headed a 1994 column about the emergence of grass-roots alternatives to the national media with ''We are all pundits now.'' Eleven years later, the headline over an Op-Ed column in The New York Times by the blogger Andrew Rotherham of the Progressive Policy Institute used the word borrowed from the Hindi with the other template: ''No pundit left behind.''

EARMARK
 Attach reform to a word and it gains a sinister connotation. That's what has happened to earmark, which in political parlance used to mean only ''reserved for a particular purpose.''
 But after Senator John McCain and others denounced the explosion of spending on ''pork-barrel projects,'' President Bush joined in with a State of the Union reformation: ''I am pleased that members of Congress are working on earmark reform -- because the federal budget has too many special-interest projects.''
 The word began as a mark -- a cut or a brand -- on the ear of livestock to show ownership. It picked up metaphoric meaning in 1612, in a religious tract about the ''eare-markt slaues of Sathan.'' More recently, the fallen lobbyist Jack Abramoff described the House Appropriations Committee as ''an earmark favor factory.''
 Today, the Congressional earmark attached to a spending bill, like a tag on the ear of a cow, still has defenders. Representative Roy Blunt said it stopped funds from being spent by Washington bureaucrats ''who often have little knowledge of the need or legitimacy of projects they fund.'' But the phrase earmark reform has a clean-government ring to it, and the definition ''particular purpose'' has a hard time up against ''special interest.''

THE COVETED GAMALIELS
 In time for the run-up to the 2008 presidential campaign, announcement is hereby made (in the passive voice) of a new awards competition to vie with the Oscars, Grammys, Super Bowl rings and other symbols of performance excellence.
 The former Virginia governor Mark Warner is currently the subject of Beltway buzz about being an alternative to Senator Clinton as the Democratic nominee. On a trip to New Hampshire this month, this dark horse -- his ratings at 3 percent, a good place to start -- electrified his audience with this flourish: ''We can't afford leaders who are about posturing and polarization rather than foresight and follow-through.''
 That is entry No. 1 for the Warren Gamaliel Harding All-American Apt Alliteration Award. Lexicographic Irregulars are invited to observe the candidates on the stump -- of whatever party or political persuasion -- and send in examples of their use of ringing phrases made up of words that begin with the same letter and thereby thrill the electorate.
 The winning candidate -- not necessarily the party's nominee, but the most egregious alliterator -- will receive a small plastic bust of President Harding, who in addition to being the 1918 coiner of founding fathers (a term once revered, now considered sexist), set this high standard in 1920 that has never been successfully challenged:
 The American people, he intoned, in words possibly ghosted by Judson Welliver, his White House ''literary clerk,'' looked to national leaders for ''not heroics but healing, not nostrums but normalcy, not revolution but restoration, not agitation but adjustment, not surgery but serenity, not the dramatic but the dispassionate, not experiment but equipoise.. . .''
 Who will win the first Gamaliel? Your entry will count, if it's a great and gripping grabber.


GRAPHIC: Drawing: Lettering by Yunmee Kyong

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (74%); CHILDREN (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); WRITERS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); CHILD WELFARE (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%) English Language; Presidential Election of 2008

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (58%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF NEGRO WOMEN (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



569 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; READING NEW YORK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: A Pair of Mayors and a Legendary Smart-Mouth

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
IT wasn't easy being the wittiest woman in America. ''Why, it got so bad,'' Dorothy Parker once complained to the Paris Review, ''that they began to laugh before I opened my mouth.''
 High expectations. High anxiety. High, period.
''Dorothy Parker herself was a Manhattan confection: equal parts bootleg scotch, Broadway lights, speakeasy smoke, skyscraper steel, streetcar noise, and jazz horns,'' Kevin C. Fitzpatrick writes in ''A Journey into Dorothy Parker's New York'' (Roaring Forties Press, $19.95). He continues, ''Dorothy was the precocious offspring of a Jewish father and a Protestant mother, a product of a city struggling economically but on the verge of enormous power and influence.''
 In this Baedeker of Parker's city, his first book, Mr. Fitzpatrick, the founder and president of the Dorothy Parker Society of New York, engages in some repetitious leapfrogging, but his subject is so delicious that it's difficult to resist his invitation to listen in on the literary Round Table at the Algonquin Hotel and to visit the other haunts that Parker and her 30-something pals frequented in their prime. 
 Why was she in a bar during the day instead of at the office working on a promised article, demanded Harold Ross, the legendarily stingy editor of The New Yorker. ''Someone else was using the pencil,'' she memorably replied. 
 In her introduction, Marion Meade, a biographer of Parker's, recalled her bittersweet memories of early evening in the city. ''There is no such hour on the present clock as 6:30, New York time,'' Parker wrote. ''Yet, as only New Yorkers know, if you can get through the twilight, you'll live through the night.'' 
 Historians are still revising their views about Boss Tweed, that 19th-century politician with a ring to his name. So how are we to take the measure of two other larger than life but contemporary New York political figures: Mayors Edward I. Koch and Rudolph W. Giuliani? 
 Time heals, but politicians typically are impatient. Guessing from two new anthologies, Mr. Koch is faring better as time goes by. Mr. Giuliani is not. 
 The title of the Koch book, edited by Michael Goodwin in conjunction with an exhibit at the Museum of the City of New York, reveals its premise: ''New York Comes Back'' (PowerHouse Books, $29.95). The collection of essays (including one by this reviewer) is not as hagiographic as the title might suggest. Still, the very involvement of some essayists who were unforgiving Koch critics during his mayoralty evokes the godsends of relativism and nostalgia. 
 Even before the 1990's ''he would not fit neatly as our 1980's poster mayor of inflexibility,'' the Rev. Al Sharpton wrote, adding that he was shocked that when he invited Mr. Koch to his 46th birthday celebration in 2000, the former mayor was wildly cheered. ''I must admit,'' he writes, ''I still don't know what I hold more against Ed Koch, having me handcuffed and jailed in 1978 or upstaging me at my own birthday party.'' 
 The book offers fascinating if occasionally arcane insights into how the Koch administration worked (the budget was balanced two years earlier than required under new accounting rules at the offhand suggestion of a Wall Street Journal reporter) and what made the mayor himself tick. ''He too often seemed mean and bullying,'' Pete Hamill writes. ''After one such outburst, I asked Bess Myerson why he behaved that way. She said, 'You have to remember something. Ed Koch has never lived with a woman. Ed Koch has never lived with a man. Ed Koch has never lived with a dog. That's why he's like that.' ''
 The book's photographs vividly remind New Yorkers from how far their city has come back -- the derelict Central Park boathouse in 1986 is particularly striking -- and also remind them that a good deal of the city's physical revival began under Mr. Koch.
 That brings us to one of his successors, Rudy Giuliani. His fans might buy this book by mistake (which, considering his popularity outside the city, at least, may be what the publisher is counting on). Edited by Robert Polner, a Newsday reporter, it's titled ''America's Mayor'' (Soft Skull Press, $15.95), the tribute bestowed on Mr. Giuliani after 9/11, and the cover portrait seems positively reverential. That is, until you catch the subtitle, ''The Hidden History of Rudy Giuliani's New York,'' and study the portrait carefully enough to notice that the mayor is flanked by two clumps of elephant dung -- a send-up of a Brooklyn Museum exhibit he attacked as sacrilegious and pornographic. 
 Those clumps are as subtle as the book gets. Still, it is a welcome antidote to the encomiums heaped upon America's mayor after Sept. 11, 2001, by so many people who forgot or never bothered to find out where Mr. Giuliani stood on Sept. 10. 
 Like Fred Siegel's generally laudatory evaluation of Giuliani, ''The Prince of the City,'' this collective assessment isn't totally one-sided. ''Virtually everyone recognized that he had, on some level, pulled New York back from the brink,'' Michael Tomasky writes.
 But most of the praise seems begrudging. As a prosecutor, Mr. Giuliani may have conceived the strategy of prosecuting mob bosses under an antiracketeering statute, as he claimed, ''but so did several other people,'' write Jerry Capeci and Tom Robbins. Kevin Baker is more generous than most when he concludes: ''He left behind a city that was cumulatively better off than when he took power, but it is hard to say if he deserves credit for that.'' 
 The book doesn't pretend to be balanced. But its value as a corrective is undermined, at times, by statements like one writer's observation that he finds ''few redeeming qualities'' to the entire Police Department, or the gratuitous mention that his welfare commissioner was born in Connecticut, as if geography deprived him of empathy. Or the failure to reflect that some of the very same criticism could have been directed at Fiorello H. La Guardia, arguably the city's greatest mayor, who by the end of his tenure was largely regarded as a lout.
 Paradoxically, Mr. Baker writes, Mr. Giuliani won by promising to restore the city's golden era, which was both ''a figment of people's imagination'' and ''a liberal creation.'' That reminded me of something Mr. Koch once said. Just after he was inaugurated, 28 years ago, he was accosted by an elderly woman on the Coney Island Boardwalk.
 '''Mayor,''' she pleaded, ''make it like it was.'' 
 ''It never was the way you think it was,'' Mr. Koch thought to himself. 

Recently Published

THE LAST OF HER KIND
By Sigrid Nunez
(Farrar, Straus and Giroux, $25)

REBELS, TURN OUT YOUR DEAD
By Michael Drinkard
(Harcourt, $24)

A MEAL TO DIE FOR
A Culinary Novel of Crime
By Joseph R. Gannascoli with Allen C. Kupfer
(Forge, $22.95)

IT'S SUPERMAN!
By Tom De Haven
(Chronicle Books, $24.95)

MONKEY LOVE
By Brenda Scott Royce
(New American Library, $12.95)


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dorothy Parker in a garden on the East Side. (Photo by Roy Schatt Archive
permission of Elaine Schatt)
Mayor Ed Koch en route to City Hall in 1978. (Photo $
 James McGrath)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); POLITICS (73%); HISTORY (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%) Reviews; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (76%) Sam Roberts; Dorothy (1893-1967) Parker; kevin c fitzpatrick; Ed Koch; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



570 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: The (American) Selling of the (Bolivian) President, 2002 

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia 

 BODY:
THE candidate running for president in Bolivia has a problem. He is seen as arrogant and aloof, a multimillionaire who has little in common with his countrymen. To top it off, he speaks with a strong American accent, a big strike against him in a country where people are suspicious of foreigners.
 But Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, better known as Goni, also has American political consultants, including James Carville, to guide his political fortunes. Using focus groups and polls, employing a simple message and beginning what one adviser unabashedly calls ''a dirty war'' against opponents, the strategists-for-hire slowly awaken a moribund campaign.
The tale is not make-believe but rather a new documentary -- ''Our Brand Is Crisis'' -- that opens on Wednesday at the Film Forum and shortly after in 15 cities nationwide. Like ''The War Room,'' a 1993 film about Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign, ''Our Brand Is Crisis'' takes viewers behind the scenes where strategists, ad men, pollsters and press advisers breath life into a faltering campaign. 
 While ''The War Room'' celebrated the Clinton campaign staff, however, ''Our Brand Is Crisis'' asks a more probing question: Whether Mr. Carville and company, in selling a pro-globalization, pro-American candidate, can export American-style campaigning and values to a country so fundamentally different from the United States.
 ''I wanted to make clear that this is a story that does not happen just in Bolivia but all over the world,'' said Rachel Boynton, 32, who directed and wrote the film after becoming intrigued by the American role in foreign campaigns. ''I'm much more interested about the consultants as a symbol for us, as a symbol for America and American assumptions. I chose the subjects because I wanted to explore America's relationship with the rest of the world.''
 The Greenberg-Carville-Shrum group offered her access and, by February 2002, Ms. Boynton was shooting in La Paz. Cycling through four cinematographers with a combined 100 years of experience (one of them, Tom Hurwitz, helped shoot ''Harlan County, USA''), Ms. Boynton set out to break from some documentary filmmaking conventions, like sit-down interviews.
 ''I approached it with classic verite style, in that I spent a lot of time in rooms with people, watching, listening and filming scenes,'' Ms. Boynton said from New York. ''I wanted the movie to be based on those scenes, so I could show instead of tell the story.'' 
 Completed last year, the 87-minute film has been screened at film festivals across the United States and Europe. It is most likely, though, to have a lasting resonance in Bolivia, where many people are inherently distrustful of American machinations. The film is scheduled to be shown across Latin America on HBO on Feb. 28, but many in Bolivia have already seen bootleg copies, some shown in cafes and even in the central plaza in the city of Cochabamba.
 ''It's a very explosive film in Bolivia because it shows close up a very deliberate strategy,'' said Jim Shultz, an American political analyst in Bolivia who recently saw the film with a group of friends. ''The film is especially explosive because it's about a candidate -- so identified with the United States and so hated by so many Bolivians -- being put into office by the political manipulations of U.S. consultants.''
 Mauro Quispe, 33, a cabdriver in La Paz, said he saw slices of the film on the television news, and it raised his ire. ''I was stunned,'' he said. ''He was being advised by the Americans, and everything they said was in English.''
 While many who know Mr. Sanchez de Lozada describe him as a man of integrity and vision, his background made him an easy target, particularly in a country caught in the growing torment of a fierce anti-globalization movement.
 A mine owner raised in the United States, Mr. Sanchez de Lozada was president of Bolivia from 1993 to 1997, carrying out Washington-prescribed economic reforms that proved immensely unpopular at home. Running again in 2002, he faced an uphill battle against the frontrunner, Manfred Reyes Villa, a handsome caudillo, or strongman, and former military man. Surging from behind was Evo Morales, the leader of Bolivia's coca growers, who in December was elected president in a landslide.
 It is easy to paint the consultants, who are the stars of the film, as little more than mercenaries, cynical spinmeisters paid handsomely to manipulate public opinion. But they come across as much more dynamic and complicated: idealistic because they believe Mr. Sanchez de Lozada was the best choice, but Machiavellian because of the lengths they went to get him elected. That Mr. Sanchez de Lozada is rocked by protests just months into his presidency, and eventually overthrown, only adds to the drama.
 ''We are in this because we not only believe in democracy, but in a particular brand of democracy, which is progressive, social democratic, market-based and modern,'' Jeremy Rosner, pollster, chief strategist and the lead protagonist in the film, tells Ms. Boynton.
 But the consultants are also shrewd operators who, 100 days before the election, devise a sleek campaign that mixes attacks against Mr. Reyes Villa with an image of Mr. Sanchez de Lozada as the least flawed of all the candidates.
 Ms. Boynton shot 165 hours of film, and from that she presents strategy sessions and un-self-conscious phone chats between consultants in Washington and the candidate in La Paz. Mr. Carville, flamboyant as ever and playing the Ragin' Cajun to the max, describes how the message must be simple and repetitive. Tad Devine, the advertising guru, tells Sanchez de Lozada that ''we must own crisis and we must brand crisis,'' meaning that their man must be sold as the one to deliver Bolivians from economic tumult.
 The key, though, is to tar Mr. Reyes Villa. ''We have to start negative campaigns against him,'' Tal Silberstein, another consultant, tells Mr. Sanchez de Lozada. ''We have to make him from clean to a dirty candidate, that's our task.''
 The message worked because the consultants, even if idealistic, had the instinct to go for the jugular. ''What started out as idealistic becomes about the win,'' said Ms. Boynton. She does not judge her subjects, and others who closely track Latin American politics see the film less as muckraking than an accurate, impartial reflection of how modern campaigns are run, whether in Bolivia or the United States.
 ''This is an old art, and the nature of democracy in Latin America -- the way it's structured, presidential democracy and the vying for votes by so many parties -- lends itself well to this kind of industry,'' said Eduardo Gamarra, director of Latin American studies at Florida International University in Miami. ''Is it Machiavellian? Well, governing is Machiavellian. It's about calculating risks and opportunities.''
 Still, the hunt for the victory is, in the end, overshadowed by the tumult of Sanchez de Lozada's 14 months in office, which ended in bloodshed that left dozens of anti-government protesters dead and the president in exile. It drives home the point that democracy has to be about much more than slogans.
 ''Only in the United States could you think that advertising will fix it all,'' Mr. Sanchez de Lozada says to Ms. Boynton after his ouster. ''It won't. Only in the United States could you believe that people could be changed by information.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Carville in a scene from the film ''Our Brand Is Crisis,'' directed by Rachel Boynton. (Photo by Film Society of Lincoln Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FILM (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (88%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); FOCUS GROUPS (76%); MOVIE FILMING (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (68%); GLOBALIZATION (65%) Motion Pictures; Politics and Government; Elections

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%) Juan Forero; Rachel Boynton; Gonzalo Sanchez De Lozada; James Carville

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); BOLIVIA (96%); EUROPE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%) Bolivia 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



571 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2431 words

HEADLINE: Two Tiers, Slipping Into One

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill. 

 BODY:
RICK DOTY is a 30-year veteran of Caterpillar, the big tractor and earth-moving equipment manufacturer. He is paid $23.51 an hour as a machinist, and he receives additional benefits worth almost as much. That sets him far above newly hired workers consigned to a much lower wage scale.
 To these fellow workers, Mr. Doty, who is also a local union leader, struggles to justify an inequality that he helped to negotiate.
''I remind them they are making more now than they were before they came to Cat,'' said Mr. Doty, who spends part of his day at the one-story union hall of United Automobile Workers Local 974 arguing that $12 to $13 an hour is good pay here. ''And I assure them that five years down the road, when the present contract expires, we in the union are going to improve their lot in life.'' 
 That does not seem likely. After more than a decade of failed strikes and job actions -- mainly in Illinois, where Caterpillar has its biggest factories -- the U.A.W. reluctantly accepted a two-tier contract that provides for significantly lower wages and benefits for newly hired employees. The new second tier is as much as $20 an hour below the cost of employing Mr. Doty, 50, and a dwindling band of other veterans. 
 As older workers depart, at Caterpillar and at other companies, the longstanding wage advantage that manufacturing workers enjoy over their counterparts in services or construction is shrinking fast. The trade-off is the promise of a manufacturing revival at long last in the old Rust Belt, as new hires come aboard at much lower labor costs.
 ''What we've done is reposition ourselves to actually grow employment in our Midwestern plants,'' said Jim Owens, Caterpillar's chief executive. ''We finally have a labor cost that is viable.''
 Caterpillar is adding a significant chapter to the labor cost-cutting that is widespread in America, particularly at old-line manufacturing companies. Until recently, cutbacks in the wages and benefits of hourly workers were limited mostly to money-losing companies: failing steel mills, for example, and struggling airlines. They have said that their survival was at stake. 
 Now, however, even healthy and highly profitable companies like Caterpillar are engaging in the practice, and as they do so, the longstanding presumption that factory workers at successful companies can achieve a secure, relatively prosperous middle-class life for themselves and their families is evaporating.
 ''Caterpillar is a powerful symbol of this process,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It dominates its field. It is one of America's largest exporters, and it is very profitable. If there ever was a company that could bring back the social contract of the mid-20th century, it is Caterpillar. But it chooses not to.''
 AS Caterpillar's managers see it, they have no choice. ''There is a balance that must be struck between being competitive and being middle class,'' said Douglas R. Oberhelman, a group president. Although Caterpillar's factories are among the most productive in the world, the managers argue that the company cannot afford to be more generous simply because it is doing well right now.
 ''You could say that in good times you could afford a different kind of package and in bad times you couldn't,'' said Christopher E. Glynn, the director of corporate labor relations. ''The real question is: What's competitive? And our target is competitiveness.''
 The new contract reflects the company's success in imposing a ''market competitive'' pay scale; that is, wages and benefits that attract enough qualified workers by being slightly better than the packages offered by others in each community or region where Caterpillar has operations. 
 In the Midwest market, the competitive wage-and-benefit package is about $23 an hour, on average, Mr. Glynn says. Caterpillar's package for new hires in the U.A.W. contract ratified 13 months ago is pegged above that, at $28 an hour, which includes about $9 an hour in benefits. 
 Only the most skilled workers in the new lower tier -- electricians and machinists, for example -- make more than $20 an hour, or $41,000 a year, while in the gradually expiring upper tier, everyone does, even unskilled laborers and shop helpers. 
 In the new lower tier, such easily replaceable workers will no longer earn more than $12.50 an hour, or $26,000 a year. They must work their way up toward middle-class jobs, Mr. Owens argues, shedding the ''union mind-set'' of annual raises for doing the same minimally skilled task year after year.
 ''I want people to have a higher income,'' Mr. Owens said. ''But you do that by starting out maybe driving a forklift or working in a warehouse and then you get new skills. You can learn how to paint. You can learn how to assemble. You can become a welder.'' Beyond that, he says, talented workers are encouraged to take courses to qualify for promotion to salaried jobs, like supervisor, outside the union.
 Going back decades, the hourly wage in manufacturing has been higher, on average, than in nonmanufacturing jobs. Through most of the 1990's, that premium was 10 percent or more, but by last year, it had fallen to just 7.45 percent above the average in other industries, according to an analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data by the Economic Policy Institute, a research group based in Washington. 
 ''We are converging in the Midwest on a $13- to $18-an-hour wage package and $9 more for benefits,'' said Daniel Luria, an economist at the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center in Ann Arbor. ''That is roughly $25 an hour, and it is down from about $40.''
 The trade-off for lower wages, Caterpillar's top executives counter, is more jobs for the region. Three-quarters of the 4,200 hourly workers that Caterpillar added in the United States last year, after the new labor contract was ratified in January, joined factories in Illinois instead of the network of small, low-wage plants that the company has opened in recent years in the South. 
 This southern network, as well as plants in Mexico, feeds parts and components to the big Illinois factories, where most of Caterpillar's tractors and earth movers, backhoes and excavators, giant off-highway trucks and other heavy equipment are assembled for sale in the United States and, to some degree, for export.
 The domestic plants form the hub of what Mr. Owens calls a ''globally cost-competitive'' system that includes factories elsewhere in the world to serve different markets. A plant in Japan, for example, is producing earth movers for China's expanding mining industry; the next step, Mr. Owens says, is to put a factory in China.
 But the company itself, he says, cannot succeed without the concessionary U.A.W. contract, combined with the network of lower-wage ''focus plants'' in the Sun Belt and in Mexico.
 ''It's a beautiful North American equation,'' Mr. Owens said.
 Shane Hillard says he does not think it is so beautiful. He is one of the new Illinois hires, having taken a second-tier job at the big tractor factory here, closing down a small landscaping company to join Caterpillar. In doing so, he lowered his health care costs -- he is a diabetic, and Caterpillar's health insurance was less expensive than his own -- and he is no longer idle in winter. 
 ''When you get down to it, I earned a little more in landscaping than I am earning now, even after expenses,'' he said. ''But I enjoy structure, and I enjoy my job. I need something to do every day.''
 By the end of last year, Mr. Hillard, 28, had moved up from welder to machinist -- and to a wage of $18 an hour, $2 above what the original contract called for. Caterpillar increased the pay scale for those jobs last October, to make sure that it could continue to attract the workers it wanted in the face of higher-wage offers for people with skills in those categories. 
 Those offers were coming to welders and machinists at a Caterpillar plant in Aurora, Ill., a suburb of Chicago where earth graders for highway construction are made. ''We were having difficulty hiring some of the people we wanted,'' Mr. Owens said. ''And our attrition rate was higher than we wanted, so we adjusted the wage to get the people we wanted and retain them.'' 
 Mr. Hillard, 160 miles away in Peoria, benefited. But even the $18 an hour is not enough, he says, to support the four people in his household. He lives with his fiancee, who is going to college and not working, and two children -- one each from their previous marriages.
 ''We don't ever have any extra money to do things,'' Mr. Hillard said. ''I'd like to do normal things that I remember doing as a kid. The family going on vacation, that kind of thing.''
 WHAT he would like, he said, is the $23 an hour or so that Mr. Doty and others earn as machinists, doing essentially the same work that Mr. Hillard does.
 ''I am not upset that they are making more,'' he said. ''I believe they are being paid what they are worth. They are being paid what they need to live the way people ought to live.''
 His anger -- directed at Caterpillar for not sharing more of its soaring profits -- has made him an active member of U.A.W. Local 974. If the bottom tier does not rise substantially in the next contract, he says, he will vote against ratification. His superiors in the union are more circumspect, including Mr. Doty, who counts on a rising membership to strengthen the U.A.W.'s bargaining position.
 The Illinois hiring over the past year has swollen the U.A.W.'s ranks to 11,500 of Caterpillar's 41,000 employees in the United States. Local 974 now has 6,000 members, up from 4,500 in 2004, and Mr. Doty, an executive vice president of the local who also works nearby at Caterpillar's diesel engine factory in Mossville, Ill., argues that the greater ''union density'' will give the U.A.W. more negotiating leverage when its contract expires in 2011.
 ''We have to get down the road to where we can bargain a better agreement,'' he said, ''and six years will pass before you know it.'' 
 CATERPILLAR, meanwhile, is prospering. It reported revenue of $36.34 billion last year, up 20 percent from 2004. That was on top of a 33 percent increase in 2004 from 2003. Net income was up 40 percent last year, to $2.85 billion; it has nearly tripled since 2003. Tens of millions of dollars have gone into research to develop a great variety of Caterpillar products that sell against those of Komatsu and Volvo, the two biggest foreign competitors.
 In the past, such gains would have also translated into higher wages and more generous benefits as contracts were renegotiated every two or three years. But the current, long-term U.A.W. contract at Caterpillar calls for just one general raise: 2 percent in December 2008. 
 Otherwise, there are some fixed bonuses and modest specified increases every six months as new hires work their way up the wage scale, which starts at $12 to $13 an hour for most factory workers and rarely gets to $20.
 Fixed monthly pensions go now only to veteran workers, like Mr. Doty, and job security is effectively canceled for new hires, who must work 12 years without interruption to become immune to layoffs. Mr. Glynn notes that the arrangement gives Caterpillar leeway to shed the new workers when demand turns down for the company's products. 
 Employee co-payments for health insurance also rose in the current contract, for retirees as well as for active workers, although not by as much as the company had initially wanted, particularly for the retirees. The union membership voted twice against ratification and then approved the contract, with 59 percent voting in favor, after the company sweetened its health care package for retirees. 
 Having essentially won against the U.A.W., Caterpillar's managers are trying to persuade hourly workers to think of the current contract as having only one tier, the lower one, while those in the upper tier should be thought of as older workers whose wages were ''grandfathered'' until they depart. Ultimately, they hope to shift their new workers' basic loyalty from the union to the company. 
 ''It's a good term, 'grandfathered,' because those folks were preserved at a wage-and-benefits level that was essentially twice the market,'' Mr. Glynn said. Already, 50 percent of the upper-tier workers who were around in 2004 have left, through retirement and attrition.
 New hires are encouraged to view assembly-line work as short term. The way up from the admittedly meager wage scale is not a better union contract, the message goes, but a promotion -- if not within Caterpillar, then at another employer. Driving a forklift or working on an assembly line for 20 years should not be a career goal. 
 ''We talk these things out in round-table discussions with workers on every shift,'' said Paul Strang, operations manager for the tractor division in Peoria, where Caterpillar started in 1925, making tractors with tracks instead of wheels.
 ''People say: 'My dad hired in at $25 an hour, and I'm at $12 an hour. Help me understand that.' And we just talk through that,'' Mr. Strang said, adding that ''we are competitive; this is a place where people want to work, and there are opportunities for promotion.'' 
 That goal is very much on display at the diesel engine plant in Mossville, which employs 2,400 people, about 25 percent of whom have been on the job less than a year. To make employees feel better, D. Dean Messinger, a plant manager, said, the bathrooms have been modernized and the cafeteria redecorated in a cedar shingle design. More to the point, a learning center recently opened on the factory floor, equipped with 30 computers and staffed with teachers from a nearby community college. 
 TRAINING in resume-writing and job interviewing are staples of the eight-week curriculum. For those who want to go on to college, Caterpillar offers to pay up to 90 percent of their tuition costs, as it has done in the past, and career counselors help steer hourly workers toward salaried office jobs.
 ''Whether people get a promotion or not, they have the opportunity, and that is what matters,'' Mr. Messinger said. ''The ones who are most aggressive, they go back to school and they can rise.''

Rewriting The Social Contract
 Articles in this series will periodically examine the challenges for business, government and society as corporate support for health care, pensions and other social benefits has eroded under economic pressures. The articles will remain online at nytimes.com/business/businessspecial2.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Employees at Caterpillar, like these at a factory in East Peoria, Ill., are encouraged to take courses in order to qualify for promotion to salaried jobs.
Jim Owens, the chief executive of Caterpillar, says that lowering wages has allowed the company to add jobs. (Photographs by Kristen Schmid for The New York Times)(pg. 7)
Caterpillar is prospering. It reported that its net income last year rose 40 percent from 2004, to $2.85 billion. (Photo by Kristen Schmid for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
(Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Vanishing Advantage''The gap between the pay of manufacturing workers and other workers has been narrowing.Graph tracks hourly wage premium for manufacturing workers since 1989.(Sources by Economic Policy Institute
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (64%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Organized Labor; Fringe Benefits; Surveys and Series; Hiring and Promotion; Labor; Labor

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%) Caterpillar Inc; United Automobile Workers

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: JAMES W OWENS (78%) Jim Owens; Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



572 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Nouveaux Rajas; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: In India, Going Global Means Flaunting It 

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
THIRTY years ago, luxury in India meant having a phone connection at home, an Indian-made Ambassador car parked out front, a bar of Toblerone chocolate carted home by an uncle visiting from abroad. 
 In the India that President Bush will visit this week, an extravagant ethos of bling has arrived. Gone is a half-century legacy of independent India -- stubbornly socialist, avowedly nonaligned, deeply anti-American -- in which the consumer culture was largely home-produced. A new euphoria can be tasted, on the lips of the small but growing upper crust, as India's new rich begin to welcome the priciest products from abroad, as well as designer brands made at home, and flaunt them, too.
Tikka Shatrujit Singh, scion of the Maharajah of Kapurthala, in western Punjab State, and today an adviser to the Louis Vuitton brand in India, described the new attitude this way: ''There is no need to feel offended. Why hide it? Show your success.'' The Vuitton stores here and in Mumbai, the commercial capital that is also known as Bombay, scored what he said were record sales on Valentine's Day. He declined to be more specific. His products are often priced higher here than in Europe. 
 Given India's surging population of young people and the sense of optimism among its newly minted rich, it is hardly surprising that the country, which no longer discourages foreign imports, has emerged as a delectable economic partner for the United States. Even though the Indian equivalent of millionaires today number only in the tens of thousands, from a population of more than a billion, they sit atop a larger tier that is striving to climb up the economic ladder. 
 For the upwardly mobile, nothing signals arrival like luxury brands. ''A lot of people who have embraced luxury today are first-timers,'' said Tarun Tahiliani, an Indian designer. ''We are a nouveau country.'' 
 Witness now the India of the nouveaux nawabs.
 What the jet-setting rich once had to procure on shopping trips to Dubai and Singapore can now be bought here, from Chanel slings to Rolex watches. India is also poised to permit direct foreign investment for single-brand retailers, and when that happens, many more global luxury brands are expected to arrive. The first Lamborghini rolled onto Indian shores a few weeks ago. 
 The embrace of luxury should not be confused with an exclusive embrace of Western logos: Indian haute couture is also ascendant, palaces are making a comeback (many as hotels), and there's a bull market in Indian contemporary art. 
 Recently, a Delhi gallery hosted a commercial Picasso exhibition, with works priced at up to $500,000. A loyal customer of the gallery scurried excitedly from drawing to drawing, demanding of the owner: ''Six and a half. Six and a half. What can I get for six and a half?'' (She meant 6.5 lakh rupees, or a little more than $15,000.) Half of the collection sold in a week. Indian art fetches similar prices today. 
 Luxury is not a new concept in India. Think of the Mughal emperors and the Hindu maharajahs of yore. They were masters of opulence -- some would say decadence -- famously ordering up saris that took years to weave or Rolls-Royces to be shipped across the sea. 
 But the maharajahs went out decades ago. And now there is this important change: With the freeing up of the Indian economy and a bullish embrace of ritz, it is possible -- for the first time since independence in 1947 -- to buy ultra-expensive goods in this country and be unafraid to display them. ''Splurge. Because you can now,'' ran a headline in The Hindustan Times, an English-language daily that sponsored a show of Indian and global luxury brands earlier this year. 
 That headline hinted at another conspicuous change in attitude from the days of socialism: an impatience among the Indian haves with being reminded of the have-nots in their midst. ''There's an indifference now,'' was the verdict of Yogendra Yadav, an analyst with the Center for the Study of Developing Societies in Delhi. 
 The share of Indians in poverty has fallen since the opening of the economy in 1991, but with the celebration of luxury, the social divide at least appears ever more conspicuous: in India, it is possible today to buy all that is most coveted in the world, just as it is to be denied basic necessities of life.
 Certainly, the political imperatives of governing the two Indias are not lost on the government of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. His ruling coalition took power a year ago with a promise not to neglect the poor. 
 The meteoric growth of the new rich is hard to ignore. A recent report by the National Council for Applied Economic Research, based in New Delhi, forecast that the number of ''crorepatis,'' Indian society's rough equivalent of a millionaire, rose by two-and-half times in the last three years to an estimated 53,000 households nationwide; by today's exchange rate, an Indian ''crorepati'' household earns about $232,000 a year.
 With wealthy Indians vacationing in their own country for the first time in generations, luxury hotels and resorts have blossomed. P.R.S. Oberoi of the Oberoi hotel chain recalled having to cart his own toilet paper when he toured the country, even as recently as 15 years ago. In the last five years alone, Mr. Oberoi's chain has opened six boutique properties, and two more are on the way -- one in Goa, once a hippie paradise, and the other in an old palace near Khajurao, the central Indian town famous for its ancient erotic temple sculptures. 
 On the rooftop of the Oberoi Hotel here one Sunday afternoon, the Louis Vuitton boutique held a brunch for its most favored customers. A giant Vuitton logo, made of Valentine-red gerber daisies, had been erected in the center of the terrace. The buffet offered tiger prawns on the grill. Moet was poured. 
 It was a little bit Las Vegas, with a view of the 16th-century dome of Humayun's tomb in the distance. One guest displayed Chanel shades, another a giant Vuitton belt buckle. One man, in a white suit, wore what appeared to be snakeskin shoes, also in white. Raptors circled overhead. 
 Asked about the resurgence of luxury in India, one client, a tiny Vuitton bag hanging from her wrist, marveled, ''You can jolly well get it all here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Take It for a Spin -- India's roads are no bargain, but this car costing nearly $300,000 is expected to sell. (Photo by Scott Eells/Redux for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (88%); BRANDING (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); RETAILERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); POPULATION SIZE (70%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); HAUTE COUTURE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (69%); SA BULL NV (60%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (69%); LVMH (BIT) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (69%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (69%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Somini Sengupta; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (73%); DELHI, INDIA (58%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%); PUNJAB, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



573 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Not the End of the World After All 

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Masters of the universe from Wall Street to Washington and beyond breathed a sigh of relief on Friday when a federal judge in Virginia put off a decision on whether to shut down the BlackBerry wireless e-mail service, which has more than three million subscribers in the United States. 
 The BlackBerry handsets, which were created by Research in Motion, a Canadian company, are de rigueur among political and financial powerbrokers and others who can't stand to be away from their e-mail. Many have struggled to envision BlackBerryless lives. Some analysts expected billions of dollars in lost economic activity if the service went dark.
 The legal wrangling between R.I.M. and NTP, the company suing R.I.M. for what it says is infringement on NTP patents, is far from over. The judge, James R. Spencer, declined to rule on an injunction to shut down the service, though he is expected to decide on damages in the case.
 Even so, fears of a meltdown by jet-setting executives have been hyperbolic to a fault. The world, it turns out, would not end if BlackBerry service did. 
 R.I.M. has even developed alternative software to keep service humming in a worst-case scenario.
 BlackBerry fanatics shudder at the thought of having to find a backup. Many say the keys, dials and software on the handsets are easier to use than those on rival machines like the Treo.
 But with a growing number of alternatives, it is safe to assume that people who had to be tethered to their in-boxes would gravitate to them.
 ''If your life depends on it, you'll find an alternative, even if it is more money,'' said Miles Lee, a telecommunications consultant for Adventis who acknowledged checking e-mail on his BlackBerry 7290 while driving.
 After considering the perversity of being ''always on,'' Mr. Lee considered another alternative: ditching the machine altogether. KEN BELSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); JUDGES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); INJUNCTIONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); PATENTS (69%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Wireless Communications; Electronic Mail; Suits and Litigation; Inventions and Patents

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Blackberry (Pager System); Rim Solutions; Ntp Inc

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (91%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%)

PERSON: Ken Belson; James (Judge) Spencer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



574 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Can See Hope Of Taking Governors' Seats

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
At a time when considerable political attention is focused on the Democrats' uphill struggle to recapture Congress, leaders of both parties say Democrats appear to be in a much stronger position on another pivotal battlefield this November, the contests for governors. 
 Democrats have a strong chance to pick up a number of seats held by Republicans while keeping seats even in states that President Bush won in 2004, potentially allowing Democrats to put their view of government on display across a bigger swath of the country and strengthening their position for the 2008 presidential race, party officials said.
Among the states that could flip to the Democratic column are Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Nevada and Ohio, all general election battlegrounds carried by Mr. Bush, as well as New York and perhaps California.
 ''From a math standpoint, we've got a tough row to hoe this year,'' Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, the head of the Republican Governors Association, said as the National Governors Association gathered here this weekend for its annual Washington meeting. 
 Mr. Romney, whose decision not to seek re-election as he explores a run for president has put his own state in play for Democrats, said Republicans could suffer a net loss of as many as four governorships if the political environment for his party did not improve.
 Some Democrats and independent analysts said the shift could end up being even more pronounced if the problems that have plagued Republicans in Washington continue to mount and Mr. Bush remains politically weakened. They said the furor over a Dubai company's taking over some operations at six American ports had provided them another opportunity to put Republicans on the defensive. They noted that Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. of Maryland, a vulnerable incumbent, was among the first Republicans to step forward to question the deal, which includes the Baltimore port. 
 ''I think we can pick up between five and seven,'' said Howard Dean, the Democratic national chairman. ''This is going to be a national election if I have anything to do with it: a national referendum on whether you want Republicans to keep running this country and whether you want them to keep running your state.''
 Jennifer Duffy, an analyst for The Cook Political Report who tracks national races, said of Democrats, ''If they don't get a majority, they are going to come awfully close.'' The Democrats would need a net gain of four governorships for a majority. 
 Beyond the potentially considerable effect on education, health, transportation and other policy issues in the states, the outcome could have substantial implications for the 2008 presidential race. As Mr. Bush showed in Ohio and Florida, having a friendly governor can be critical in close general elections. As a result, this year's contests are of considerable interest to presidential contenders in both parties, many of whom are current or former governors. 
 ''People underestimate the value of a Republican governor during a presidential cycle,'' said Gov. Mike Huckabee, the Republican governor of Arkansas and a potential presidential candidate. ''It helps a lot.''
 The potential shift is a result of a political map of statehouses that is as challenging to Republicans as the Congressional map is difficult for Democrats. There are 22 Republican governor seats in contention, compared with 14 for Democrats. 
 State economies are generally doing well, helping to increase tax revenue, pay for new or expanded programs and provide a positive environment for incumbents. But whatever advantage the economy may hold for Republicans is offset to some degree by term limits, which are forcing many of their incumbents to step aside. Five sitting Republicans, including Jeb Bush in Florida and Mr. Huckabee, are barred from running again, creating open seats. No Democratic governor is facing a term limit this year.
 There are now 28 Republican governors and 22 Democratic. Seven Republicans are not seeking re-election, in Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada, New York and Ohio. Only one Democrat is stepping aside: Tom Vilsack of Iowa, who is looking at a run for president. 
 ''It's not a pretty picture out there,'' said Joe Gaylord, a Republican consultant. 
 Democrats do have some of their own problems for November.
 In Pennsylvania, Gov. Edward G. Rendell, a Democrat seeking a second term, is girding for a prospectively strong challenge from Lynn Swann, the former star football player for the Pittsburgh Steelers. In Michigan, Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, one of the Democrats' most poised candidates, is struggling with a sour economy and facing a well-financed challenge from Richard M. DeVos, a former chairman and co-founder of the Amway Corporation. 
 Republicans said they hoped to mount a strong challenge to Gov. James E. Doyle, a Wisconsin Democrat, with Representative Mark Green. To a lesser extent, Democrats said they were concerned about keeping Maine, Oregon and Illinois. 
 And the decision by Mr. Vilsack not to seek re-election means Democrats could lose Iowa. ''It's a very tough seat,'' Mr. Vilsack said Saturday. ''The state has only elected seven Democrats in our history.''
 Still, Republicans seem to be in a tougher spot. Analysts said Democrats had a chance of picking up Alaska, Arkansas, Colorado, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New York, Ohio and -- possibly, though less likely -- Alabama, California, Florida and Minnesota. 
 ''Massachusetts, Arkansas are really Democratic states, but we have Republican governors,'' Mr. Huckabee said. ''I think we can keep a Republican governor in Arkansas, but it's going to be a challenge.''
 To the frustration of Republican leaders, Democratic governors in states where Mr. Bush won convincingly in 2004 seem to be doing very well, including those in Arizona, Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming.
 Of all the states in play, the most closely watched is probably Ohio, where Gov. Bob Taft is being forced out by term limits, under a cloud of scandal that has left Republicans fearful of a rout this November. Representative Ted Strickland is the most likely Democratic candidate. 
 To the delight of some Democrats, a fierce primary has broken out on the Republican side between J. Kenneth Blackwell, the secretary of state, and Jim Petro, the attorney general. 
 ''I wish we could have the election yesterday,'' Mr. Strickland said. ''Right now, Democrats are in a superb position in Ohio.''
 Presidential contenders are paying particularly close mind to what is happening in states likely to be at the center of the 2008 presidential race.
 ''Governorships are important to the presidential races,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I don't want to overstate that, but I would think it helped in Florida to have the president's brother there.''
 Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, the head of the Democratic Governors Association and a potential presidential candidate, said: ''People caring about '08 should really care about '06 and the governors' races. Governors are where the future of politics are.''
 For Republicans, the other concern is the potential for the outcome of this year's races to influence the legislative redistricting that will follow the 2010 census, especially if 2006 is the beginning of a resurgence in the national strength of the Democrats. Mr. Gaylord said the 2006 election could be parallel to 1994, when Republicans made national gains that put them in a commanding position when it came time to redraw district lines after the 2000 census.
 Mr. Gaylord said one reason Republicans did so well in the 2002 Congressional elections was because of Republican successes in 1994. ''It went so deep at the state and local levels that the Democrats could never turn it back around,'' he said.
 Democratic governors were clearly confident as they confronted the Bush administration on issues including port security, health care and immigration, in what amounted to a map for the campaign ahead.
 Gov. Kathleen Sebelius, a Kansas Democrat who is favored in her re-election bid in a state where Mr. Bush won 62 percent of the vote, said ethics and competence would be among the most crucial issues for Democrats in 2006.
 ''People demand competence at a bare minimum,'' she said. ''They want to believe that elected officials have their best interests at heart, not special interests.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Attorney General Mike Beebe of Arkansas, a Democrat, announcing his candidacy for governor last June 14 at Drake Field in Fayetteville. (Photo by J.T. Wampler/The Morning News, via Associated Press)
 Tom Reilly, a Democrat, greeting supporters in Springfield, Mass., on Jan. 4, during a rally to start his campaign to be governor. (Photo by Chitose Suzuki/Associated Press)Chart/Map: ''The Races for Governor''Democrats are positioned well for governors' contests across the nation, according to party officials. This year, 22 Republican governor seats are in contention, compared with the 14 that Democrats have to defend. Also, Republican incumbents in Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Nevada and Ohio are barred by term limits from running again.Map of the United States highlighting Republican and Democrat governor seats available.(Source by National Governors Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TERM LIMITS (72%); REFERENDUMS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Governors (US); Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidents and Presidency (US); States (US); Term Limits (Political Office); Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Politics and Government; Public Opinion

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MIKE BEEBE (58%) Adam Nagourney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (68%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



575 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Shortfall Politics

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
A SERIES of nonbinding recommendations from a panel. A vaguely worded radio interview. Some nonspecific comments by his new treasurer.
 Those are the tea leaves from which observers in Trenton are left to divine Gov. Jon S. Corzine's plan to fix the state's daunting and intractable multibillion-dollar budget gap this year. Little seems clear, other than the general realization that the solution will be painful.
If there is one bright aspect to this grim tableau, some political observers say, it is that New Jerseyans seem more ready than ever to accept painful but necessary measures that will include cuts to popular programs and increases in taxes and fees. Indeed, in the general desperation to get past the state's fiscal mess once and for all, there may be an opportunity for bold action.
 ''People are already convinced that the budget is a mess, so they're much more ready to hear about ways to fix it than they were even two years ago,'' said Ingrid Reed, a political science professor at the Eagleton Institute at Rutgers University. ''Now they're just waiting for someone to tell them what has to be done.'' 
 That's the theory, anyway. What Mr. Corzine will actually do remains unknown. 
 For now, even the size of the problem -- the budget gap was originally estimated by Mr. Corzine to be as high as $6 billion, although he has since appeared to backtrack -- remains a mystery. Longer-term debt, combined with the state's pension and health care obligations, could be more than 10 times that amount.
 There will be no clear answers until sometime before a deadline of March 21, when Mr. Corzine will have to present his budget to the Legislature and explain how he intends to make up the shortfall.
 Testifying last Thursday before the Judiciary Committee of the state Senate, Mr. Corzine's nominee for state treasurer, Bradley Abelow, a former Goldman Sachs executive, suggested that neither he nor the governor were certain about even the most basic assumptions about the budget. ''There have been a lot of different numbers used in the press,'' he said. ''And as I sit here and talk to you, I am not sure what those numbers will be on March 21.''
 One member of the Legislature, which shares responsibility for shaping the budget, compared the wait for details to being on a television reality show. ''It's like on the 'Iron Chef,' where they have to put together a menu around a secret ingredient,'' said Assemblyman Bill Baroni, a Republican from Hamilton. ''We still have no idea what the ingredient is.''
 But there have been some clues in recent days that present at least a blurry picture of some of the approaches that Mr. Corzine, a former Goldman Sachs executive, may take toward solving what is surely the greatest financial mess he has faced his career. 
 First, there was a transition report commissioned by Mr. Corzine and carried out by a panel of nongovernmental advisers that recommended a politically unappetizing -- but undeniably ambitious -- mix of spending restraint and new revenue from taxes.
 Then, more telling, the public heard from the man himself. In an interview on the New Jersey 101.5 FM talk radio station earlier this month, Mr. Corzine indicated that residents should expect to be paying more in taxes and fees in the next year, comparing his situation to that of another wealthy executive who moved into elective politics.
 ''Michael Bloomberg raised taxes his first year in office, and he was cutting them by the time he got around to election because he had a surplus,'' he said of the recently re-elected New York City mayor. ''I think we've got to get the economy and our budget into shipshape order, and then we have a chance to actually make this thing work on reducing taxes.''
 That sort of language has delighted some policy analysts. Jon Shure, who worked in Gov. Jim Florio's administration and who now heads a liberal research organization, has read Mr. Corzine's early body language as an indication of a willingness to be bold in bringing about an overhaul of the state's much-maligned tax system.
 ''The kinds of things I'd be looking at are getting some more mileage out of the income tax, modernizing the sales tax, not letting some of the business tax provisions sunset that are due to sunset,'' Mr. Shure said. ''From what I'm seeing, he is thinking about doing some of these kinds of things.''
 And the tax system is only part of the problem. Other political minefields to be negotiated include school financing formulas, which suburban legislators have deemed to be excessively generous to city schools, and the rising costs of health care for the state's public employees.
 Not all indications point toward bold action, however. 
 One idea floated by Mr. Corzine's camp in another problem area -- a plan to refinance the debt of the state's nearly insolvent transportation financing system -- has met with decidedly cool reviews from a broad range of politicians.
 State Senator Leonard Lance, the Republican minority leader who has sued the state in the past for borrowing money to cover operating expenses, said that the state will have to balance the budget ''without resorting to borrowing or fiscal gimmicks'' and that he favors a constitutional cap on spending. 
 Of the idea of extending the transportation system's debt to keep it solvent in the short term, Mr. Lance said, ''This trial balloon is not a good sign.'' 
 Some Democrats, too, have seemed uncomfortable with the idea, seeing it as a poor alternative to raising New Jersey's relatively low tax on gasoline. State Senator Joseph F. Vitale of Woodbridge said that a gasoline tax would have been ''honest and direct,'' and that ''the other way is additional borrowing that will make it likely later on that we'll have to raise the gas tax and then pay down the debt.'' 
 In his testimony last Thursday, Mr. Abelow did not comment on the specifics of the transportation financing plan, but indicated that the administration would not be opposed to taking out long-term loans to make long-term investments in the state's infrastructure.
 Speaking of the state's dire situation as a whole, Mr. Vitale said that the time was ripe for daring proposals, and that he hoped Mr. Corzine -- and the Legislature -- would act immediately to right the state's finances even if it meant arousing the anger of voters. ''If we continue to do what's politically expedient,'' he said, ''we'll never solve the problem.''
 Mr. Shure, who lived through the voter backlash in the early 1990's against Mr. Florio's tax increases, acknowledged that there would always be some resistance to tax increases in any form, but agreed that the time might never be more opportune to introduce new ideas for running the state budget.
 ''There's no easy way to fix this,'' he said. ''The reason for that, in part, is that the things that you'd need to do to make the tax system in this state fairer and more adequate will raise some people's taxes. There's no question about this.'' 
 But, he added, ''I think that unlike when I worked for Governor Florio, everyone knows there's a problem. People in this state are sophisticated now. They've seen what's been going on the last decade. No one needs to convince them about how things really are.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Which way to go? Gov. Jon S. Corzine and his driver, Scott Kisch, walking through the corridors of the State House. (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



576 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Not Always Strength In Numbers

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THIS will be a ''data-dependent week,'' predicts John Lynch, chief market analyst at Evergreen Investments. And with Ben S. Bernanke shaping up to be a data-dependent Federal Reserve chairman, investors may find several pitfalls ahead, Mr. Lynch warned. 
 ''The markets are going to focus solely on the economy'' he said of the week, noting that there was little else, such as earnings reports, to arouse interest. Traders have been reacting nervously of late to economic numbers that may herald more inflation than the Fed deems acceptable, and there could be more such numbers in the next few days, he said.
Mr. Lynch will be looking in particular at two reports, both due Wednesday, that could generate further trepidation. One is a measure of how much things cost, and the other shows how much people are spending.
 There has been little letup in the appetite of American consumers, and a warm January, which made for lower home heating bills and a pleasant climate for heading to the mall, means that the trend was likely to have continued. A Bloomberg News poll of economists estimates an increase of 1 percent in personal spending in January, 0.1 percent higher than in December. 
 Wall Street, however, may not take kindly to a number in line with that consensus, Mr. Lynch said. Such a personal spending reading ''is going to be a red flag,'' he said, adding that ''continued strength from consumers may not be good from a perception standpoint.'' A reading with a 1 in front of the decimal point could spook stock and bond markets, Mr. Lynch cautioned.
 A report with potentially more significance to traders is the Institute for Supply Management's snapshot of the nation's manufacturing sector for February. The Bloomberg poll anticipates a reading of 55.5, up from 54.8 in January. But the poll predicts a dip in the prices-paid component, which measures the cost of goods that factories use to produce finished items, to 64.2 from 65.
 Mr. Lynch is concerned that the forecast of prices paid is too conservative.
 ''If the price index is in the high 60's, it will be a negative for stocks, certainly, and for bonds, as well,'' he predicted. ''We don't want to see those high inflation numbers.''
 Neither does Mr. Bernanke, presumably, which is why the risks appear so great.
 ''In January the market was up because everyone thought the Fed was close to being done'' raising rates, Mr. Lynch said. ''If we continue to see blowout numbers on consumer spending and a higher-than-expected inflation number on the I.S.M., it's going to scare the markets.''

DATA WATCH -- Other reports this week include two on Tuesday. One is the Conference Board's reading on February consumer confidence; the Bloomberg poll expects a decline to 104, from 106.3 last month. The other is the report on sales of existing homes; it is forecast to show an annual rate of 6.58 million units for January, unchanged from the previous month.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks personal consumption expenditures (monthly change) since 2005. (2006 estimated)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); INFLATION (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%) Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



577 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2200 words

HEADLINE: In Sony's Stumble, The Ghost Of Betamax

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Martin Fackler contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
AT first glance, Amir Majidimehr does not look like a game-changer in the battle to develop the next generation of DVD players and discs. As the vice president for Windows digital media at Microsoft, he neither steers a Hollywood studio nor controls one of the many consumer electronics giants that are betting billions of dollars on one of the two new formats that promise to play high-definition movies and television shows. 
 Yet when he and his team in Redmond, Wash., decided last September to abandon their neutral stance and to support Toshiba and its HD-DVD standard over the Blu-ray format led by Sony, the unexpected change of heart reverberated through the technology industry.
Suddenly, Toshiba's seemingly quixotic defense of its format had new life. Intel joined Microsoft in backing HD-DVD. Hewlett-Packard withdrew its exclusive support of Blu-ray. This month, another member of the Blu-ray camp, LG Electronics, hedged its bets, too, signing a deal to license Toshiba's technology. 
 And earlier this month, one of the main reasons underpinning Microsoft's move to shuck its neutrality -- the complexity of producing Blu-ray technology -- led to Sony's acknowledgment that it might delay this spring's scheduled release of its PlayStation 3 game console partly because the needed technology was still being worked out.
 The possible delay and the Blu-ray group's loss of its once-commanding lead are not encouraging developments for Sony in its attempt to revive its electronics group after a series of bungles. PlayStation 3 is crucial to Sony's future, and not only because the latest version of its gaming consoles could generate billions in revenue; the new machines will include disc drives that will turn them into Blu-ray DVD players as well.
 ''The PlayStation is more than a game system to them; it's one of their attempts to own the digital living room,'' said Robert Heiblim, a consultant to electronics companies. ''Blu-ray is also critically important to get right. They don't want to be weak in an area they feel they can dominate.'' 
 A DECADE ago, a prospective death match between competing first-generation DVD players was averted when Sony and Philips agreed to back down and join the Toshiba/Warner Brothers side, in exchange for a share of royalties that all DVD player producers pay to the format's creator. Now, no truce seems near, as neither side wants to settle for a small piece of what could be a big electronics success. 
 So consumers and retailers may be in for a reprise of the confusing VHS-Betamax showdown of the early 1980's, with Toshiba replacing Matsushita as Sony's adversary. But Sony hopes to have a happier resolution this time. Sony lost the battle two decades ago when its highly regarded Betamax technology was defeated by VHS, a more widely accepted alternative.
 Once again, the differences between the two technologies are not huge. And a growing chorus of critics, including some studio chiefs eager to sell new products as quickly as possible, call the Blu-ray format unnecessarily elaborate and expensive.
 The first HD-DVD machines from Toshiba and the competing Blu-ray players from Sony, Samsung and the other Blu-ray companies will all play movies with crisper pictures, enhanced sound and a bevy of interactive features like pictures within pictures and links to the Internet. The machines will also play older DVD's.
 Technophiles got a preview of the HD-DVD technology on Wednesday at an electronics store on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. As Jessica Simpson and Johnny Knoxville cavorted in the movie ''The Dukes of Hazzard,'' prospective buyers were able to see the difference between a plain old DVD and the high-definition kind. But the main feature was the price. Toshiba will sell two players starting in March; one will cost just $499, half the price of the cheapest Blu-ray machines, the first of which will hit the stores this spring. Samsung's first machine will cost $1,000, while Pioneer's Blu-ray player will run $1,800.
 Toshiba executives have said that because more high-definition movies will be distributed over the Internet in coming years, they have essentially upgraded existing DVD technology to keep prices down. Blu-ray discs, however, include an architecture that Sir Howard Stringer, Sony's chairman, calls ''revolutionary, not evolutionary.''
 The Blu-ray camp is trying to create a brand-new technology that will accommodate features that are still to be created. In preparation for that future, Blu-ray discs will store 25 gigabytes of data, compared with the 15 gigabytes on comparable Toshiba discs and 4.7 gigabytes on today's DVD's.
 The first batch of high-definition DVD's from the studios' vaults will highlight rich graphics, vivid scenery and fast-moving action. The films include ''Rambo,'' science fiction thrillers like ''The Matrix'' and ''Dune'' and animated features like ''Ice Age.'' The DVD's are generally expected to cost $19 to $25.
 But movies are only one front in the format war. In throwing its weight behind Toshiba, Microsoft has expanded the fight into the computer and game industries. Later this year, Microsoft will start selling an external drive for its Xbox game that will play HD-DVD discs, countering Sony's effort to turn PlayStation into a high-definition DVD player by adding Blu-ray technology. Microsoft and its ally Intel have also convinced Hewlett-Packard to consider making HD-DVD drives for computers. This would give Toshiba an answer to Dell, which remains committed to the Blu-ray format.
 ''The pendulum is swinging back to the HD-DVD camp,'' said John Freeman, who runs a technology research firm, Strategic Marketing Decisions, which last year declared Blu-ray the front-runner. ''It will be interesting to see if the Blu-ray group can recover. It's only a matter of time before people start backing out of the Blu-ray camp.'' 
 Still, even with Microsoft on board, Toshiba may have only closed the gap, not overtaken the Blu-ray group. With Samsung, Panasonic and others siding with Sony, consumers will see more Blu-ray machines in the stores. And Blu-ray has more studios in its camp, which means more choice in movies. Every major studio except Universal plans to release Blu-ray DVD's, while Toshiba has commitments from only Universal, Warner Brothers and Paramount.
 But one thing is clear: given Microsoft's growing power and scope in the entertainment realm -- thanks to its Xbox machines, its media player software and forays into Internet television -- its support of HD-DVD has deepened, and has probably prolonged, the format battle. That means consumers must figure out each format's advantages and risk being stuck with obsolete machines if one camp backs down.
 This is giving retailers fits, not only because they have to carry twice as many machines and discs, but also because they have to train their employees to explain the differences between the standards. 
 ''Both sides are digging in their heels and stupidity has prevailed,'' said Joe McGuire, the chief executive of Tweeter, a high-end electronics chain. Mr. McGuire called the failure of the two camps to agree on a single format ''criminal'' and said he would have a hard time advising consumers. ''The answer to which is better is: 'We don't know,' '' he said. ''I'm tempted not to sell anyone these machines.''
 But sell they will, because retailers -- and studios -- need something new to throw at consumers now that DVD players are in 82 percent of American homes. Sales of DVD players are ''pretty dead,'' said John LaRegina, a senior buyer at P.C. Richards, which has 49 stores in the New York area.
 But Mr. LaRegina said format battles confused consumers and gave them an excuse not to buy. The uncertainty over who may win also forces film studios and electronics companies to hedge their bets.
 Warner Brothers and Paramount, which were originally committed only to HD-DVD, decided last fall to make movies in both formats.
 ''It was very, very clear that Sony was not going to back down from Blu-ray, and they are basically betting their company on it,'' said Kevin Tsujihara, the president of Warner Brothers Home Entertainment Group. But, he added, Toshiba has mounted ''something of a comeback'' by winning endorsements from Microsoft and Intel.
 Some Blu-ray companies are also waiting to see how the market develops before jumping in with machines of their own. If the PlayStation 3 is priced below Toshiba's $500 player, it could double as the poor man's Blu-Ray player and undercut Sony's partners. (It will also cost Sony dearly; Merrill Lynch issued a report on Feb. 17 estimating that the first PlayStation 3 players would cost about $900 to produce. If so, Sony could end up with substantial losses on those machines if they are priced around $299, as analysts expect, to compete with the Xbox 360, which has been out since November.)
 ''It's too early to move into this market,'' said Katsuhiko Machida, the president of Sharp, a Blu-ray company that has not released details for its players in the United States. ''Blu-Ray won't be a big business until probably 2008,'' he said, so ''we can watch and see what happens.''
 Those doubts are a far cry from Blu-ray's bravado last summer and fall, when it won endorsements from Fox, Lions Gate, Warner Brothers and Paramount. Those agreements, coupled with the presumed sway of the PlayStation 3, led industry analysts at Forrester and elsewhere to predict that Blu-ray would ultimately win the format war.
 But two unexpected and little-noticed decisions by the Blu-ray group last spring managed to alienate Microsoft and ultimately revive Toshiba's sagging fortunes. 
 First, Sony and the Blu-ray group adopted a Java program for interactive features. Microsoft favored a rival called iHD because, among other things, it would work better with its new Vista operating system. The Blu-ray group's board also approved an encryption technology called BD+, which Mr. Majidimehr, Microsoft's vice president for Windows digital media, deemed superfluous. 
 THESE decisions led Mr. Majidimehr to take a deeper look at the Blu-ray format and whether it would be more expensive to produce, as Toshiba had long contended. Mr. Majidimehr and his deputy, Jordi Ribas, spent the next few months on the phones and flying to Asia to meet with Sony, Panasonic and the other Blu-ray companies.
 ''We asked them if they are serious, and they told us they were,'' Mr. Majidimehr said, referring to the added software. Microsoft also received more data that showed that the Blu-ray group was not meeting its targets for producing discs and optical drives. ''We were getting a lot of data saying the HD-DVD format was a walk in the park and Blu-ray was having trouble developing theirs,'' Mr. Majidimehr said.
 Microsoft's announcement last September raised alarm bells at Hewlett-Packard, which was coming to similar conclusions. Hewlett-Packard worried that the software included in the Blu-ray format would cost so much in royalties that H-P would be unable to add affordable DVD drives to its computers.
 Blu-ray drives cost up to 75 percent more than HD-DVD drives, according to Maureen Weber, the general manager of the personal storage group at Hewlett-Packard and a former spokeswoman for the Blu-ray coalition. ''There's not a lot of elbow room,'' she said of the thin profit margins on computers. ''The economics of HD-DVD make a lot more sense for us. I'm starting to wonder about the manufacturing ability of Blu-ray.''
 A Blu-ray spokesman, Andy Parsons, says his group's royalties, which have not yet been set, will be far lower than critics expect. He also disputed the idea that Toshiba had any advantage because Microsoft or Hewlett-Packard might promote the use of HD-DVD in computers.
 ''DVD's are about movies and people watch them in their living rooms,'' he said. ''How many people actually use their computer drives to sit and watch movies?''
 He added that the price of Blu-ray machines and discs was bound to fall as volume rose. Besides, he said, Toshiba is missing the point by selling cheaper machines, because the first people who buy new technologies typically care less about cost and more about the technology.
 There are other industry analysts who contend that Microsoft is simply propping up Toshiba to further its own aims, like countering the PlayStation and combating the spread of Sun's Java software. Nonetheless, Toshiba is happy for the backing, given that the format was written off for dead just a few months ago.
 ''There's no doubt that everyone has various agendas,'' said Mark Knox, an adviser to the Toshiba promotion group. ''But whatever their agenda, Microsoft's support has been a huge boon to HD-DVD.''
 For Sony, a fortified rival spells trouble. Not only does it make it harder for Blu-ray to catch on, but it raises questions about Sony's approach of trying to create new formats when consumers turn out to be content with something less ambitious. 
 That is the lesson Sony learned the hard way in the 1980's with Betamax, and more recently when Apple outdid the Walkman with the iPod. Now it is Toshiba's and Microsoft's turn to challenge Sony's strategy.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Toshiba HD-DVD player. Microsoft supports the format over Blu-ray.
Blu-ray players, like one from Sony, will cost more than HD-DVD rivals. (pg. 4)Chart: ''A Battle of Formats''Two formats are competing for the high-definition DVD market--Toshiba's HD-DVD and Blu-ray Disc, championed by Sony. Players for both formats will offer greater image and audio quality, enhanced menu features, and the ability to play standard DVD's. Some of their differences:FEATURESRecording capacityHD DVD: Dual layer: 30GB
Single layer: 15GBBlu-ray Disc: Dual layer: 50GB
Single layer: 25GBPlayback timeHD DVD: Dual layer: 8 hours
Single layer: 4 hours (at 8 Mbps)Blu-ray Disc: Dual layer: 7.5 hours
Single layer: 3.8 hours (at 12 Mbps)Player costHD DVD: $499 (Toshiba HD-A1)
 $799 (Toshiba HD-XA1)Blu-ray Disc: $1,000 - $1,800Video game compatibilityHD DVD: Xbox 360Blu-ray Disc: PlayStation 3INDUSTRY SUPPORTConsumer electronicsHD DVD: Sanyo*, ToshibaBlu-ray Disc: Hitachi, JVC, Mitsubishi, Panasonic, Philips, Pioneer, Samsung, Sanyo, Sharp, Sony, TDKI.T. industryHD DVD: Hewlett-Packard*, Intel, Microsoft, NEC, ToshibaBlu-ray Disc: Dell, Hewlett-Packard, AppleMovie studiosHD DVD: Paramount*, Universal Studios, Warner Brothers*Blu-ray Disc: Disney, Lions Gate, Paramount, Sony Pictures/MGM, 20th Century Fox, Warner Brothers*supporting both formats(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (93%); CD & DVD DRIVES (91%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); FILM (78%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); ROYALTIES (76%); RETAILERS (72%) Recordings and Downloads (Video); Digital and High-Definition Television; Dvd (Digital Versatile Disk); Recordings and Downloads (Video); Computer and Video Games

COMPANY: SONY CORP (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); TOSHIBA CORP (84%); INTEL CORP (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); LG ELECTRONICS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corp; Toshiba Corp; Sony Corp; Intel Corp; Hewlett-Packard Co; Blu-Ray Disc Association; Lg Electronics

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); TOS (LSE) (84%); 6502 (TSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); LGLD (LSE) (56%); 066570 (KSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006



578 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Danger Signs in Nigeria

 BODY:
Mayhem in Nigeria, the fifth-largest oil supplier to the United States and Africa's most populous country, is escalating. Since mid-December, crime and violence have regularly shut down about 10 percent of the country's oil output. In the last week, production has been cut by nearly 20 percent -- a shortfall of 455,000 barrels daily -- amid kidnappings of foreign workers, arson against offshore oil installations, bombings of pipelines and lethal clashes between Muslims and Christians. 
 The economic impact of the loss of Nigerian oil is magnified by other circumstances: the worsening of Iraq's oil industry, the nuclear impasse with Iran, heightening tension with Venezuela and last week's attempted suicide bombings at the main oil processing center in Saudi Arabia. The price of a barrel of crude oil spiked on Friday to nearly $63 and is unlikely to ease soon.
But the world needs a stable Nigeria for reasons that go beyond oil. Nigeria is crucial to all of West Africa, having often provided the military troops and negotiating forums to quell civil war and related violence in neighboring countries. Nigeria is also important to counterterrorism efforts, both as it tries to monitor and defuse an encroaching fundamentalism among its own Muslims and in cooperating with international efforts to secure the strategically vital Gulf of Guinea. Nigeria is also now on the front lines of combating bird flu. 
 Unfortunately, there are no easy answers to Nigeria's troubles. A big part of the problem is that the people of the country's oil-rich Niger Delta remain deeply impoverished, largely because of endemic corruption in distributing oil wealth and the historical indifference of oil companies to those economic inequities and to environmental devastation in the Delta. At the same time, the militants who claim to represent the Delta people have evolved into criminal gangs, adept at stealing huge amounts of oil to sell on black markets, the proceeds of which are used to buy ever more sophisticated weapons. 
 Some of the current violence is a backlash against the Nigerian government's recent anti-corruption successes. But over all, Nigeria is not strong enough to solve its own problems. The Bush administration, with its good relations with Nigeria and with oil companies, is unusually well positioned to broker international arrangements that would enhance transparency in the flow of oil dollars and development in the Niger Delta. 
 Sub-Saharan Africa is on track to double its oil production in the next 10 years, when it will likely supply up to one-fourth of America's imported oil, much of it from Nigeria. Now is the time for the American government to pay more attention to this region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); ARSON (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); SUICIDE (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); INFLUENZA (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) NIGERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (94%); NIGER (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



579 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Danish Companies Endure Snub by Muslim Consumers

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
A week ago, Arla Foods planned to remove its sponsorship logo from the Danish soccer team's training outfits when it plays Israel on Wednesday. By Friday, Arla Foods, a Danish dairy company that has borne the economic brunt of the Muslim outrage over newspaper cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad, had changed its mind. The company said the logo would be in its usual place for the match in Tel Aviv.
 The decision may reflect a slight easing of the financial crisis that has cost Arla Foods an estimated 1.3 million euros, or $1.5 million, a day in lost exports to the Middle East, said Louis Illum Honor, a spokesman for the company. 
''As a Danish company, you want to get some good will from your football team,'' he said. ''As of a few days ago, it didn't look like that would happen. But now things have calmed down a bit.''
 Boycotts of goods from Denmark continue in Saudi Arabia and other Muslim countries, however, and the flip-flop over the Arla Foods' logo reflects Danish companies' uncertainty over how to respond to the furor over the cartoons.
 While some American companies operate in hostile environments, the fallout from the cartoons has presented Danish companies with a public relations nightmare on a much greater scale.
 In response to boycotts that broke out in January after the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten published the cartoons, affected companies have tried a variety of strategies, from taking out full-page advertisements in Saudi newspapers to trying to keep a low profile. 
 For now, Mr. Honor said, the boycott of Arla Foods' goods remains ''nearly total,'' even if violent protests in the region appear to have eased.
 Arla Foods, a well-known brand in Saudi Arabia and other countries in the region, has sought advice from a local public relations firm, Mr. Honor said, though he declined to identify it because of the sensitivity of the situation. The company initially ran ads in Saudi newspapers, reprinting the text of a news release from the Danish Embassy in Riyadh, saying Denmark respected all religions.
 But that failed to stop the boycott, and other Danish companies have mostly avoided such high-profile moves, said Henriette Soltoft, a director of the Confederation of Danish Industries.
 ''What we say to our members when they ask as about this issue is that they should be quiet and cautious,'' she said. ''Using advertising is probably not effective at the moment.''
 A better approach, she said, is to try to work through local business partners, including suppliers and distributors, in the hope that they, in turn, will put Danish goods back on shelves and communicate with consumers.
 In an effort to reconnect with local business partners, Arla Foods attended an industry trade fair last week in Dubai, which is part of the United Arab Emirates. The company attached posters to its stand, Mr. Honor said, stating that it was against the publication of the cartoons and anything else that causes religious offense.
 Assuming Arla Foods' goods eventually return to stores, Mr. Honor said, the company may then consider new advertising campaigns.
 Rikke Jensen, a spokeswoman for the A. P. Moller-Maersk Group, the Danish shipping company, said it was going about ''business as usual'' in the Middle East. The company has not taken any public actions related to the cartoon crisis, she added.
 To be sure, Maersk benefits from not being a business that directly faces consumers. But another Danish brand, Lego, has also been relatively unaffected, said Trina Nissen, a company spokeswoman.
 A few retailers have removed Lego items from stores, she said, but the Middle East is a small market for the company, she said. 
 Perhaps the unluckiest company is Kuwaiti Danish Dairy, whose sales have fallen by as much as 95 percent in some markets, according to reports by The Associated Press. The company has run newspaper ads pointing out that it is Kuwaiti-owned and that it severed its connections with Denmark more than two decades ago. Now the company is reportedly weighing a name change.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters in Dhaka, Bangladesh, denounced a political cartoon and asked Muslims to boycott Danish goods. (Photo by Rafiqur Rahman/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (89%); DAIRY PRODUCT WHOLESALERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); SOCCER (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%); PRESS RELEASES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); PRINT ADVERTISING (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (63%); TRADE SHOWS (50%) Islam; Boycotts; Cartoons and Cartoonists; International Trade and World Market; Dairy Products

COMPANY: ARLA FOODS AMBA (90%); ASK ASA (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Jyllands-Posten (Danish Newspaper); Arla Foods

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (62%)

PERSON: Muhammad (Prophet) (C570-632); Eric Pfanner

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (73%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) DENMARK (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Denmark

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



580 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Did an Expose Help Sink Harvard's President? 

BYLINE: By SARA IVRY

 BODY:
Two years ago, when David McClintick, an author and investigative journalist, agreed to write an expose on Harvard University's effort on behalf of the United States government to help Russia privatize its economy in the 1990's, he had little inkling the article would play a part in forcing the ouster of Harvard's president, Lawrence H. Summers.
 ''I was surprised that he was gone by February of '06,'' said Mr. McClintick, and ''that it happened as rapidly as it did.'' 
''How Harvard Lost Russia'' was published in the January issue of Institutional Investor magazine, a subscription-only publication, about a month and a half before Dr. Summers's resignation, which he announced last Tuesday. The move came just two weeks after a Feb. 7 meeting when the president was challenged on several issues, including his reaction to events described in Mr. McClintick's article.
 In roughly 18,500 words, (22,007 including sidebars), Mr. McClintick chronicled financial improprieties by those in charge of Harvard's Russia project, including Andrei Shleifer, a professor of economics who is a friend and protege of Dr. Summers's, and Jonathan Hay, a Harvard-trained lawyer. The two men were accused of making personal investments in Russia at a time when they were working under contract to establish capitalism in the former Soviet nation. 
 Their behavior led the United States government to file civil charges against Harvard, Mr. Shleifer and Mr. Hay for fraud, breach of contract and making false claims. In a settlement reached last summer, Harvard agreed to pay $26.5 million. Mr. Hay was ordered to pay a fine based on his future earnings and Mr. Shleifer agreed to pay $2 million, though none of the parties admitted wrongdoing. Mr. Shleifer has not been subjected to any disciplinary action from Harvard. 
 Some Harvard watchers attribute that to Dr. Summers's influence, though he formally recused himself from the matter, and they see the entire affair, assiduously detailed by Mr. McClintick, as an indelible stain on Harvard's reputation.
 Mr. McClintick, 65, a 1962 graduate of Harvard, is a former reporter for The Wall Street Journal and the author of several books, including ''Indecent Exposure,'' which investigated financial scandal at Columbia Pictures. That book was a finalist for the National Book Award and helped solidify Mr. McClintick's reputation as a meticulous investigator. 
 ''I'd never really written about academia before, but here again, one reason I was drawn to it was you had this very small group of exceptionally brilliant people, very young people, basically trying to save Russia and then an even smaller group corrupting the enterprise,'' he said. ''The wheeling and dealing and the internal dynamics of the group are fascinating.''
 There is a wide range of opinion in the powerful circle of Harvard watchers on just how significant Mr. McClintick's article was in galvanizing faculty members. Richard Bradley, the author of ''Harvard Rules: Lawrence Summers and the Battle for the World's Most Powerful University,'' has written frequently about the scandal on his blog (richardbradley.net). 
 ''Suddenly, you couldn't just say this was an arcane legal dispute in which one party had somehow fallen afoul of the law,'' Mr. Bradley said in an interview. ''Suddenly, this was exposed as a really unattractive and deliberate pattern of behavior and cover-up that quite dramatically pointed an arrow at Larry Summers.'' 
 The article was sent anonymously in brown envelopes to some senior faculty members at Harvard, according to Harry R. Lewis, professor of computer science and the author of the forthcoming book, ''Excellence Without a Soul: How a Great University Forgot Education.''
 ''I certainly got people calling me up from the faculty, including emeriti faculty and people I hadn't seen in a long time, because I was quoted in it, and saying, 'Wow, I never knew this story,' '' Mr. Lewis said. 
 Frederick H. Abernathy, a professor of mechanical engineering, announced at the Feb. 7 faculty meeting how to find the article online, and he asked Dr. Summers, who had been deposed in the litigation against Harvard, if he had an opinion on the matter. According to John Longbrake, senior director of communications, Dr. Summers replied, ''I am not knowledgeable of the facts and circumstances to be able to express an opinion as a consequence of my recusal.'' 
 Efforts to reach Dr. Summers were unsuccessful; inquiries were referred to Mr. Longbrake.
 The recusal, said Robert D. Putnam, a former dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, was a turning point. 
 ''When the president responded in a manifestly untruthful way to questions that were asked about the Shleifer case,'' Mr. Putnam said, ''it had a devastating effect on the views of people who were to that point uncommitted, people who, like me, were strong supporters of his agenda.'' 
 Others, however, maintain that the events detailed by Mr. McClintick were a negligible factor in Dr. Summers's departure. The report is available at institutionalinvestor.com. 
 ''I would bet you there weren't more than 20 or 30 people who read it,'' said Alan M. Dershowitz, who has taught law at Harvard for 42 years and who wrote an op-ed about the resignation for The Boston Globe. 
 ''It seems to me it was full of leaps of logic,'' Mr. Dershowitz said. ''Once people made up their minds they wanted to get rid of Summers, they were dragging up anything.''
 Mr. Longbrake declined to answer whether Dr. Summers, 51, had read Mr. McClintick's article and whether it had influenced his decision to resign.
 In an e-mail message, Mr. McClintick said that he did not write his article to set any particular chain of events in motion. ''I try to raise questions,'' Mr. McClintick said. ''I don't like to preach, pontificate or tell the reader what to think.''
 Michael J. Carroll, the editor at Institutional Investor who first approached Mr. McClintick with the story, said Mr. McClintick's article, the longest published in the magazine since he began editing it in 1999, warranted close attention. ''Russia was going to go the way of the West, so in come the best and brightest of Harvard, and this story shows how the best and the brightest started to do things the old Russia way,'' Mr. Carroll said. Mr. McClintick concurred. ''If this case shows anything,'' he said, ''it's that intelligence does not equal wisdom.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An article by David McClintick, above, about a program to privatize Russia, and a recusal by Harvard's president, Lawrence H. Summers, right, raised eyebrows among faculty members. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INDECENT EXPOSURE (78%); ETHICS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); DAMAGES (75%); TRENDS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); LITIGATION (70%); SCANDALS (69%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (65%); CONTRACTS LAW (65%); LAWYERS (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (63%) Colleges and Universities; Privatization; Economic Conditions and Trends; Colleges and Universities; Ethics; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University; Institutional Investor (Magazine)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%) Lawrence H Summers; Andrei (Prof) Shleifer; Jonathan Hay; Sara Ivry; David McClintick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



581 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Test Scores Not Lowered By Television

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

 BODY:
Does television rot children's brains? A new study by two economists from the University of Chicago taps into a trove of data from the 1960's to argue that when it comes to academic test scores, parents can let children watch TV without fear of future harm. 
 Matthew Gentzkow, 30, an assistant professor of economics at the university's graduate school of business, and Jesse M. Shapiro, 26, a research fellow, have waded into controversial territory that is usually the domain of psychologists and educators. 
 ''The notion that television has terrible effects on very young children is widely believed and discussed,'' said Mr. Gentzkow. He noted that he was not predisposed to a ''television is good'' argument; he even conducted an earlier study that found that television lowered voter turnout. 
 Most studies that find negative effects from television compare groups of children who watch television to those who do not, even though the economic situations of the two groups are in all likelihood very different, Mr. Gentzkow said. The new study, however, was based on what the authors call a ''natural experiment'' that resulted from the way television was introduced in the United States in the late 1940's and early 1950's, when some cities got TV service five years ahead of others. 
 Data from cities where preschoolers were exposed to the new technology, and data from cities where they were not, was correlated with test scores from about 300,000 students nationwide in 1965, as collected in the Coleman Report, a survey done under the Civil Rights Act. The study also looked at test scores from pre- and post-TV age groups within cities. 
 The result showed ''very little difference and if anything, a slight positive advantage'' in test scores for children who grew up watching TV early on, compared to those who did not, said Mr. Shapiro. In nonwhite households and those where English was a second language or the mother had less than a high school education, TV's positive effect was more marked. 
 There is very little that television has not been blamed for when it comes to children, whether it be shortened attention spans, a predilection to violence, earlier sexual activity or a general decline in values. The American Academy of Pediatrics became so concerned about its effects that it suggested in 2001 that children under 2 watch no TV, and that preschoolers older than 2 be limited to one to two hours a day of ''quality'' programming. 
 But many parents routinely ignore that warning. Average TV viewing among 2- to 5-year-olds -- the youngest viewers tracked by Nielsen Media Research -- crept up to 3 hours and 40 minutes a day in the 2004-5 TV season. A host of cable channels have are dedicated to the tiniest viewers. 
 Elizabeth A. Vandewater, associate professor of human development at the University of Texas and director of the Center for Research on Interactive Technology, Television and Children, praised the new study for adding ''more evidence that television is not uniformly evil or bad,'' but said that it ignored ''a host of evidence that shows that content matters a lot.'' 
 She said that ''there is a huge body of evidence that educational television'' can be good for children, as well as strong evidence that ''violent content is related to antisocial aggressive behavior.'' 
 Mr. Gentzkow said the work had nothing to say about how television affects a child's focus, aggression or other behaviors, and that it merely looked at academic outcomes. 
 The authors also said the study was not meant to evaluate television content in the 1950's versus that of today. But Mr. Shapiro noted: ''If you look at the top five children's programs in the 1950's and the equivalent list from 2003, the content is not as different as you might have thought.''
 The study was released this month by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a nonprofit, nonpartisan group of academic researchers based in Cambridge, Mass. The group is better known for putting out statistical analyses on the state of the economy. But it also serves as a forum for disseminating working papers of new economic research that has yet to be peer-reviewed, including the television study. Mr. Gentzkow said the study had been submitted for peer review to The American Economic Review. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PARENTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (61%) Television; Tests and Testing; Education and Schools; Children and Youth; Television

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%) University of Chicago

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (60%)

PERSON: Matthew Gentzkow; Jesse M Shapiro; Elizabeth Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



582 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 260 words

 BODY:

POSTAGE PROTEST -- Nonprofit groups, including some on either end of the political spectrum, and small businesses will hold a news conference tomorrow to talk about their opposition to a plan by America Online and Yahoo to charge fees to guarantee delivery of bulk e-mail. Critics say the plan could harm free speech if nonprofits find themselves unable to consistently reach mailboxes without paying. AOL and Yahoo say it will help them in their efforts to stop junk e-mail from reaching their customers. 


WHAT'S NEXT FROM APPLE? -- Apple Computer has invited journalists to its headquarters tomorrow to check out ''some fun new products.'' Apple-obsessed blogs have speculated that the company could be revamping more of its computer lineup as it switches all of its machines over to Intel processors.

ECONOMIC PULSE -- Plenty of economic reports are due this week, starting with a checkup on the housing market. New home sales for January are due out today, with existing home sales to come tomorrow. Wednesday will bring a report on auto sales for February, while retailers will release figures on same-store sales Thursday.

GULF COAST BANKING -- Four federal banking agencies will meet with representatives of Katrina-damaged financial institutions on Thursday and Friday at a forum in New Orleans called ''The Future of Banking on the Gulf Coast: Helping Banks and Thrifts Rebuild Communities.''

PROFIT WATCH -- Major corporate earnings reports this week include Cablevision and Lowe's, due out today; Heinz tomorrow; and Revlon and Saks Fifth Avenue on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); SAME STORE SALES (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); EMAIL MARKETING (72%); RETAILERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AOL INC (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



583 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Labor Leaders to Convene, Faced With Uphill Battles 

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Feb. 26 

 BODY:
When the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s leaders gather this week at a luxury seaside resort here, they will once again be on the defensive, a situation made worse by the split the labor federation suffered last year.
 Wages for the nation's workers failed to keep up with inflation last year, and unions in the beleaguered automobile, steel and airline industries are battling management's efforts to cut pay and benefits. 
Unions face an uphill battle in recruiting more workers because many companies fight so hard to remain nonunion. And as a result of the split, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has cut its budget by 25 percent and shut down its magazine and its health and safety department.
 But labor leaders insist that they are moving forward, not backward. They boast that they played an instrumental role in getting several states to raise their minimum wage and in blocking President Bush's plans to revamp Social Security. And they say their lobbying in Maryland and other states to force companies to pay more for health insurance has pressured Wal-Mart to improve its benefits.
 Leaders of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., a federation of 52 unions representing nine million workers, say the damage from last summer's schism has not been as bad as feared. Last year, four major unions -- the service employees; the Teamsters; the food and commercial workers; and Unite Here, representing apparel, hotel and restaurant workers -- quit the federation, insisting that it was doing too little to reverse labor's decline. Those unions, which accounted for nearly one-third the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s membership, have formed a rival federation, called Change to Win.
 In a surprise, while those unions severed ties on the national level, they pushed hard to continue cooperating with the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s affiliates at the state and local level. Indeed, 516 union locals from the breakaway unions have signed agreements enabling them to remain part of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s state and local labor federations. This has meant that the rival factions can cooperate in state and local political campaigns and lobbying.
 ''It's really significant that we're reuniting at the state and local level,'' said Denise Mitchell, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s communications director. ''This shows that people still want to work together and not disrupt this relationship.'' 
 Nonetheless, at the national level, the two sides often exchange harsh words, accusing each other, for instance, of doing far less union organizing than they had promised. If the two sides agree on anything, it is that labor's biggest challenge is reversing its decline in numbers. Only 12.5 percent of the nation's workers belong to unions, and just 7.8 percent in the private sector, down from 35 percent in the 1950's.
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is proud that one of its unions, the communications workers, recently organized 16,500 workers at Cingular, the cellphone giant, while Change to Win boasts that the service employees have unionized nearly 5,000 immigrant janitors in Houston. 
 The breakaway unions promised to be far more aggressive about organizing than the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s unions, saying they would focus on campaigns that would unionize thousands and perhaps tens of thousands of workers. But so far Change to Win has begun few new efforts.
 ''We're still mapping out plans,'' said Greg Tarpinian, Change to Win's executive director. ''You're not going to see results tomorrow.''
 He pointed to one ambitious effort -- Unite Here announced an effort this month to unionize workers at Starwood, Hilton and Marriott hotels. John Edwards, the former senator and Democratic candidate for vice president, helped kick off the campaign, which asserts that hotel workers need a union because so many earn less than $8 an hour and live in poverty.
 ''Change to Win still hasn't shown that they can establish momentum,'' said Richard W. Hurd, a labor relations professor at Cornell University. ''But they have a clear idea of what they want to do.''
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s unions say they are gearing up for major campaigns to organize construction workers in Arizona and Denver and mining workers at Peabody Energy.
 But labor experts say reversing labor's fortunes will not be easy. ''Are unions going to go back to 30 percent of the work force? No,'' said Charles B. Craver, a labor law professor at George Washington University. ''But they might be able to get to a point where they represent 10 percent in the private sector, and that might cause nonunion companies to be afraid of them, but right now they're not.''
 One big fear about the schism was that the two sides would raid each other's members. Last fall there was a huge battle in California when the service employees sought to attract thousands of workers who belonged to the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, but those two unions signed a truce. Still, the two unions have battled each other in trying to sign up child care workers in Iowa and municipal employees in Houston.
 The International Brotherhood of Teamsters has sought to raid several other unions in Chicago. It has also enraged the machinists' union by trying to take away the machinists' members at US Airways after it merged with America West.
 A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials assert that such raids betray union solidarity. Mr. Tarpinian of Change to Win, who is a longtime consultant to the Teamsters, said: ''Where there is raiding, it's localized. It's not directed at the national level. One can argue that it doesn't go beyond what existed when everyone was in the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'' 
 Officials with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. plan to use the winter meeting to show the federation is on the mend. It will announce that several small unions, including the Farm Labor Organizing Committee and the Utility Workers Union, will join the federation. On Monday, the nation's largest union, the National Education Association, will announce that it will allow its local chapters -- there are 13,200 -- to join the A.F.L.-C.I.O., a move that could increase the federation's membership by nearly a million over the next five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); RESORTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); POLITICS (67%); RESTAURANTS (64%) Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%); HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (54%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



584 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Sunnis Return to Talks; Sectarian Violence Ebbs
The main Sunni Arab political bloc has decided to return to suspended talks over the formation of a new government, a step that could help defuse the sectarian violence and tensions that soared last week and pushed Iraq toward all-out civil war. A1

The Army has decided to reimburse a Halliburton subsidiary for nearly all of its costs on a disputed $2.41 billion no-bid contract to deliver fuel and repair oil equipment in Iraq, even though the Pentagon's own auditors identified more than $250 million in charges as potentially excessive or unjustified. 
 A1

Germany Aided U.S. in Iraq War
Two German intelligence agents in Baghdad obtained a copy of Saddam Hussein's plan to defend the Iraqi capital, which a German official passed on to American commanders a month before the invasion. A1

Prisoners Riot in Afghan Jail
Up to 5 prisoners were killed and 31 wounded when the inmates in Afghanistan's main high-security prison, among them people accused of being members of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, rioted and seized control of one cellblock. A5

Genocide Probe in Mexico
A secret report prepared by a special prosecutor's office says the Mexican military carried out a ''genocide plan'' of kidnapping, torturing and killing hundreds of suspected subversives in the southern state of Guerrero during the so-called dirty war, from the late 1960's to the early 1980's. A3

Europe Counsels Montenegro
The European Union's chief foreign policy envoy, Javier Solana, urged Montenegro's independence movement to accept proposals intended to shape a referendum on the future of the small Balkan republic, which is planning to hold a vote in mid-May that could lead to its becoming an independent state. A4

Israel Discounts Abbas
The Israeli foreign minister said Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, was ''no longer relevant'' in a Palestinian government soon to be led by the militant Islamic group Hamas. A7

NATIONAL A10-16

Avoiding Institution Life, Elderly Opt for Commune
A group of elderly Californians are starting a new chapter in their lives in Davis, Calif., as residents of Glacier Circle, the country's first cooperative housing development for the elderly: a community they planned and designed themselves, right down to its purple gutters. A1

New Form of Computer Hacking
In some countries, past forms of computer hacking have been eclipsed by an even more virulent form of electronic con: the use of simple keylogging software that can infect computers, silently copy the keystrokes of their users and send that information to cybercriminals. A1

Labor Leaders Gather
The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s leaders will gather in San Diego and will once again be on the defensive, a situation made worse by the split the labor federation suffered last year. Wages for the nation's workers failed to keep up with inflation, while unions in the automobile, steel and airline industries are battling management's efforts to cut wages and benefits. A10

Concern About National Guard
Governors of both parties complained that Bush administration policies were stripping the National Guard of equipment and personnel needed to respond to hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, forest fires and other emergencies. Tens of thousands of National Guard members have been sent to Iraq. A10

Impending Rail Fee for States
After failing in a three-year effort to hand over Amtrak's Washington-to-Boston tracks to a new federal-state consortium, the Bush administration is seeking tens of millions of dollars in extra payments from the states for use of the tracks by commuter railroads serving the route. But the states are complaining that they already have contracts that specify what they should pay. A12

Investigation of Port Deal
The Dubai company seeking to take over some operations at six American ports formally asked the Bush administration to conduct a deeper investigation into security concerns surrounding the deal. The request will leave President Bush in the politically delicate position of having to approve or disapprove the takeover. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Fund-Raising SlowsFor Ground Zero Memorial
Two years after the designs for a memorial at the World Trade Center were unveiled with great fanfare, the nonprofit group charged with raising $500 million to pay for it is far from its goal and has announced no significant contributions for the last three months. B1

Apartment Clear of Anthrax
Laboratory tests have found no traces of anthrax in an apartment in Brooklyn where a man worked on unprocessed animal hides obtained from Vado Diomande, the man who contracted inhalation anthrax this month while making drums from the hides. B2

FASHION B8

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Sweden Wins Hockey Gold
Thanks to a last-minute save by Henrik Lundqvist, a goalie who plays for the Rangers in the N.H.L., Sweden defeated Finland, 3-2, in the gold medal hockey game that was the final event of the 2006 Winter Olympics. D1

ARTS E1-8

Dungeons & Dragons Online
An online version of the role-playing classic Dungeons & Dragons is set for release after more than three years of development. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, who created the original together over thirty years ago, have both lent their voices to the new project. E1

New Time Slot for Trump
Donald Trump's reality show, ''The Apprentice,'' is scheduled to premiere its fifth edition in a new time slot tonight on NBC. Trump's well-publicized feud with Martha Stewart has helped raise awareness of the show's return. E1

New Look at 'The Nightmare'
Henry Fuseli's painting, ''The Nightmare,'' is drawing crowds as the centerpiece of ''Gothic Nightmares: Fuseli, Blake, and the Romantic Imagination,'' which continues at Tate Britain in London through May 1. The painting first attracted attention in 1782. E3

OBITUARIES B6-7

Kenneth McCabe
A police detective who became a quiet legend among crime fighters by spying on and testifying against mobsters, he was 59. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Cellphone Entertainment
The News Corporation has created a mobile entertainment store called Mobizzo and a production studio to focus exclusively on developing cellphone entertainment in much the same way that 20th Century Fox creates movies and television. C1

The CBS Corporation is expected to announce a subscription service that sends news and entertainment alerts, including video clips, to mobile phones. The service is part of a broad new strategy to sell wireless media products directly to consumers. C1

Wal-Mart and Health Insurance
Wal-Mart's chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., under mounting pressure to increase spending on employee health insurance, urged the nation's governors not to pass legislation that burdens the company. He pledged to work with the governors to move its workers off state Medicaid rolls. C2

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Crossroads in the national parks; danger signs in Nigeria; Dickensian democracy; debt and taxes.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Autos D9
Bridge E4
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E8
Weather D10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRISONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); RIOTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TERRORISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); TALIBAN (78%); ARMIES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); TORTURE (73%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); SPYWARE (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); AL-QAEDA (71%); GENOCIDE (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (67%); HAMAS (67%); CYBERCRIME (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); AGING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); JAVIER SOLANA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MONTENEGRO (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MEXICO (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



585 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

CBS Plans Subscription Service That Sends News and Entertainment to Cellphones
The CBS Corporation is expected to announce the first subscription services that send news and entertainment alerts, including video clips, to mobile phones. The services are part of a broad new strategy to sell wireless media products directly to consumers. [C1.] 


In what is the boldest venture yet by an established media company to insinuate itself into millions of cellphones, the News Corporation has created a mobile entertainment store called Mobizzo and a production studio to focus exclusively on developing cellphone entertainment in much the same way that 20th Century Fox creates movies and television. [Page C1.]

Before Harvard President's Ouster, an Influential Article
Two years ago, when David McClintick, left, agreed to write an expose on Harvard's effort on behalf of the United States government to help Russia privatize its economy in the 1990's, he had little inkling the article would play a part in forcing the ouster of Harvard's president, Lawrence Summers. ''How Harvard Lost Russia'' was published in the January issue of Institutional Investor magazine, a subscription-only publication, about a month and a half before Dr. Summers's resignation, which he announced last Tuesday. The move came just two weeks after a heated Feb. 7 meeting at which Dr. Summers was challenged on several issues, including his reaction to the events described in Mr. McClintick's provocative article. [C3.]

Working to Make Computer Power More Portable
When Samsung decided to mount a serious challenge to Apple Computer's iPod music player early last year, it turned to a Silicon Valley start-up and a small team of programmers led by Paul Mercer, 38, a veteran Apple Macintosh software designer. For Mr. Mercer, the Samsung project is the culmination of more than two decades of focus on extending personal computer technologies into the realm of portable devices. [C1.]

Tense Ties Between White House and Press
By its nature, the relationship between the White House and the press has historically held an inherent tension. And many say the relationship has been eroding since the Vietnam War and Watergate, when reporters had reason to distrust most everything the White House said and made a scandalous ''gate'' out of every murky act. But today, those on both sides say, the relationship has deteriorated further, exacerbated by live White House briefings. [C1.]

Gauging the Marketing Magnetism of the Oscars
Since the nominations for the 78th annual Academy Awards were announced, sponsors have shrugged off skeptics who questioned whether the ceremony, to be broadcast on Sunday by ABC, would draw a sizable audience. None of the five nominees for best picture are box-office blockbusters, the skeptics point out, and few of the nominees for acting awards are household names. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C4.]

If you drill down into this year's best picture nominees, you will find that they are guerrilla insurgencies backed by superpowers. David Carr. [C1.]

Web Companies Turn to 'Pay-Per-Call' Services
Businesses like Ingenio, based in San Francisco, are helping Internet companies move into ''pay-per-call'' services, where consumers on the Web click on an icon to have someone call them or simply dial a number in an ad. Judson Brady, left, the owner of Broad Street Flowers, an Atlanta-based floral service, pays Ingenio around $4.15 for each call from a prospect -- most of whom see his ads on AOL, which introduced its pay-per-call service last year. More than a third of the callers place an order, Mr. Brady said, making it more effective than his ''pay-per-click'' advertising. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C7.]

Test Scores Not Lowered by TV, Study Finds
A new study by two economists from the University of Chicago taps into a trove of data from the 1960's to argue that when it comes to academic test scores, parents can let children watch TV without fear of future harm. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE MEDIA (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (83%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (77%); FILM (77%); STARTUPS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (63%); VIETNAM WAR (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); NEWS CORP (72%); APPLE INC (67%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (67%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (67%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (67%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (67%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



586 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE POLITICS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: How a Business Deal Became a Big Liability for Republicans in Congress 

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Adam Nagourney contributed reporting from Washington for this article, Gretchen Ruethling from Chicago, Katie Kelley from Denver, Christopher Maag from Cleveland, and Terry Aguayo from Miami.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26 

 BODY:
Representative Peter T. King of New York was in a room packed with reporters last week, complaining that the White House had jeopardized national security by contracting with an Arab-owned company to manage terminals in six American ports, when he felt his cellphone vibrate. It was Representative J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House. 
 Mr. King, like Mr. Hastert a Republican, finished talking and hurriedly returned the call, expecting the speaker, who has never broken with President Bush on a major issue, to chastise him. ''And before I said anything,'' Mr. King recalled, ''he said, 'You don't have to tell me what a bad deal it is: you and I are on the same page.' ''
That moment, on Tuesday in New York, was a critical tipping point in the political furor engulfing Mr. Bush over the deal by Dubai Ports World, a company run by the government of the United Arab Emirates, to manage American ports including some in New York and New Jersey. 
 Though the tensions were somewhat defused Sunday when the company agreed to a 45-day national security review, the problem continues to exact a steep political price from Mr. Bush, exposing divisions between the White House and Congressional Republicans in a critical election year and further weakening a president already reeling from a series of setbacks, from Hurricane Katrina to the war in Iraq. 
 ''We've defended them on wiretaps, we've defended them on Iraq, we've defended them on so many things he's tried to accomplish, that to be left out here supporting this thing in a vacuum is kind of offensive,'' Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Florida, said Sunday in an interview after the company's agreement to the review was announced. He added, ''If it's just about saving face and letting us humor ourselves, we won't be satisfied.''
 Sunday's agreement is likely to forestall, at least for the time being, a confrontation between Congress and the president over legislation, which Mr. Bush threatened to veto, blocking the Dubai contract. But with Republicans worried about their own re-election prospects, relations are clearly strained. 
 ''With the Republicans in Congress, there's a certain breach right now that has to be repaired,'' Mr. King said in an interview Sunday, adding, ''I think it was handled very badly.''
 The story of how President Bush, who has staked his political fortunes on his reputation for protecting the nation, was blindsided by the port security issue did not begin in Washington. When the news first broke, two weeks ago, the attention of the national news media was largely consumed with other matters, including Vice President Dick Cheney's accidental shooting of a fellow hunter. 
 But pressures from far beyond the capital forced the spotlight onto the Dubai deal. Fueled by a backlash on conservative talk radio and taunting by liberal blogs and comedy shows, the national outcry seemed almost organic, a bipartisan chorus that grew ever louder over the span of a week, reaching a cacophony that President Bush and members of Congress, besieged by calls from constituents, could not ignore. 
 ''People were crazy about this,'' said the conservative talk show host Michael Savage, who railed against the Dubai contract on his radio program, broadcast on 370 stations with an estimated 8 million to 10 million listeners. ''Even the Bush supporters went nuts.''
 The uprising is, in one sense, a clash over economics and national security that played on Americans' fears of another terrorist attack. Many shared the sentiments of Cira Alvarez, a 74-year-old Republican in Miami, who said of Mr. Bush, ''I have supported him just about everywhere else, but this is just horrible.''
 But the story has a political element, too, featuring administration missteps, including a bungled Sunday morning television appearance by the homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, political calculations by Democrats and a growing restiveness among Republicans, including the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, who were irked at having been kept in the dark. Some of the Republicans apparently decided that standing alongside an embattled president yet again this year would do them more harm than good. 
 In one of the tale's more curious twists, Mr. Frist, who is likely to seek the Republican nomination for the presidency in 2008, was in California on a fact-finding mission on port security last Tuesday, as the story reached its crest. After threatening to support legislation that would block the deal, Mr. Frist was photographed in a helicopter flying over the Port of Long Beach: a picture that made the front pages of the next day's papers, speaking volumes about the brewing political storm. 
 On Sunday, Senator Frist claimed credit for brokering the face-saving arrangement. Now, with lawmakers heading back to Washington after a weeklong recess, the handling of the deal will be picked apart on Capitol Hill. Members of both chambers will receive classified briefings on the port deal. The Senate has three committee hearings scheduled; in the House, the Homeland Security Committee, led by Mr. King, will hold one. 
 He remains mystified by the president's veto threat. ''I don't see why the president wants to fall on his sword for the United Arab Emirates,'' Mr. King said. ''Not in the post-9/11 world.''
 Unlike some news stories, which break with a bang, the story of the $6.8 billion sale of Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation, the British company that had been managing the ports, to Dubai Ports World, emerged in a trickle. It first began to attract notice on Feb. 13, when the news was dominated by the emerging details about the Cheney hunting accident and the storm that had buried New York City under two feet of snow.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a longtime critic of the Bush administration on port security, was clued in early; a source in the shipping business tipped him off, he said. Also on Monday, right after the big snowstorm, Mr. Schumer held the first of a series of news conferences. But hardly any reporters showed up. 
 That same day, Mr. Savage, the talk radio host, spotted a report about the deal on his own Web site. He invited Mr. Foley and another Republican, Representative Vito J. Fossella of New York, as guests. 
 By midweek, Mr. Foley said, his phones were ringing off the hook with constituent complaints. And he was not the only one. Mr. Hastert, who represents a rural district in Illinois, was flooded with calls as well. On Capitol Hill, Mr. Schumer was continuing to hammer away, and had drawn support from an unlikely ally, Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma. 
 ''This brings up the emotion of us being attacked,'' said Mr. Coburn, adding that his constituents were deeply concerned. Mr. Bush, he said, ''did not handle this right,'' adding, ''part of his leadership job is to assure the country that he's going to do everything to put their best interests ahead of any financial dealings or international trade.''
 To be certain, not all Americans are so critical. Over the past week, the public has learned that foreign companies have managed American ports for decades. Tim Filla, a 30-year-old ranch hand in Jackson, Wyo., said: ''I think it's just election-year sensationalism. I don't think it's a big deal at all.''
 Yet lawmakers of both parties say that the White House was late in explainingthe deal, and that Secretary Chertoff made things worse last Sunday in defending it on television. On the ABC News program ''This Week,'' Mr. Chertoff said the deal had been vetted through ''a rigorous process,'' but Mr. King, who by that time had been reviewing the decision with administration officials, publicly contradicted the secretary.
 The pressure continued to build the following day. The Republican governors of New York and Maryland joined the growing chorus of critics, and senior Republican aides on Capitol Hill said they gave the White House pointed warnings that members were unhappy. Former President Jimmy Carter weighed in to support the deal, but the endorsement only inflamed Republicans.
 The next day, Tuesday, Mr. Schumer, joined by Mr. King, held another news conference, the one where Mr. King received the call from Mr. Hastert. By day's end, Mr. King said he had gotten a call from a White House official he would not name. The congressman assumed he would hear that Mr. Bush had backed down, and the Dubai deal was off. Instead, he learned that Mr. Bush had just spoken to reporters on Air Force One and issued a veto threat.
 ''When I heard that,'' Mr. King said, ''I realized this was just the beginning.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Peter T. King, left, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, both of New York, at a news conference last Tuesday about the decision to allow Dubai Ports World to manage terminals in six American ports. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (78%); VETO (78%); WIRETAPPING (72%); IRAQ WAR (64%); TERRORISM (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); SHOOTINGS (50%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Dubai Ports World

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (83%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (83%)

PERSON: PETER T KING (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



587 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Graduates Versus Oligarchs

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman

 BODY:
Ben Bernanke's maiden Congressional testimony as chairman of the Federal Reserve was, everyone agrees, superb. He didn't put a foot wrong on monetary or fiscal policy.
 But Mr. Bernanke did stumble at one point. Responding to a question from Representative Barney Frank about income inequality, he declared that ''the most important factor'' in rising inequality ''is the rising skill premium, the increased return to education.''
That's a fundamental misreading of what's happening to American society. What we're seeing isn't the rise of a fairly broad class of knowledge workers. Instead, we're seeing the rise of a narrow oligarchy: income and wealth are becoming increasingly concentrated in the hands of a small, privileged elite. 
 I think of Mr. Bernanke's position, which one hears all the time, as the 80-20 fallacy. It's the notion that the winners in our increasingly unequal society are a fairly large group -- that the 20 percent or so of American workers who have the skills to take advantage of new technology and globalization are pulling away from the 80 percent who don't have these skills. 
 The truth is quite different. Highly educated workers have done better than those with less education, but a college degree has hardly been a ticket to big income gains. The 2006 Economic Report of the President tells us that the real earnings of college graduates actually fell more than 5 percent between 2000 and 2004. Over the longer stretch from 1975 to 2004 the average earnings of college graduates rose, but by less than 1 percent per year. 
 So who are the winners from rising inequality? It's not the top 20 percent, or even the top 10 percent. The big gains have gone to a much smaller, much richer group than that. 
 A new research paper by Ian Dew-Becker and Robert Gordon of Northwestern University, ''Where Did the Productivity Growth Go?,'' gives the details. Between 1972 and 2001 the wage and salary income of Americans at the 90th percentile of the income distribution rose only 34 percent, or about 1 percent per year. So being in the top 10 percent of the income distribution, like being a college graduate, wasn't a ticket to big income gains.
 But income at the 99th percentile rose 87 percent; income at the 99.9th percentile rose 181 percent; and income at the 99.99th percentile rose 497 percent. No, that's not a misprint.
 Just to give you a sense of who we're talking about: the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimates that this year the 99th percentile will correspond to an income of $402,306, and the 99.9th percentile to an income of $1,672,726. The center doesn't give a number for the 99.99th percentile, but it's probably well over $6 million a year. 
 Why would someone as smart and well informed as Mr. Bernanke get the nature of growing inequality wrong? Because the fallacy he fell into tends to dominate polite discussion about income trends, not because it's true, but because it's comforting. The notion that it's all about returns to education suggests that nobody is to blame for rising inequality, that it's just a case of supply and demand at work. And it also suggests that the way to mitigate inequality is to improve our educational system -- and better education is a value to which just about every politician in America pays at least lip service.
 The idea that we have a rising oligarchy is much more disturbing. It suggests that the growth of inequality may have as much to do with power relations as it does with market forces. Unfortunately, that's the real story.
 Should we be worried about the increasingly oligarchic nature of American society? Yes, and not just because a rising economic tide has failed to lift most boats. Both history and modern experience tell us that highly unequal societies also tend to be highly corrupt. There's an arrow of causation that runs from diverging income trends to Jack Abramoff and the K Street project.
 And I'm with Alan Greenspan, who -- surprisingly, given his libertarian roots -- has repeatedly warned that growing inequality poses a threat to ''democratic society.'' 
 It may take some time before we muster the political will to counter that threat. But the first step toward doing something about inequality is to abandon the 80-20 fallacy. It's time to face up to the fact that rising inequality is driven by the giant income gains of a tiny elite, not the modest gains of college graduates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TAX LAW (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); RANKINGS (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) United States Economy; Income; Colleges and Universities; United States Economy

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



588 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Cautions U.S. It May Curtail Oil Exports 

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Feb. 26 

 BODY:
Venezuela's oil minister, in blunt comments published in a Caracas newspaper on Sunday, warned the United States that it could steer oil exports away from the United States and toward other markets.
 The minister, Rafael Ramirez, said Venezuela, which is the world's fifth-largest oil exporter and supplies more than 10 percent of American oil imports, could act in the face of what he described as aggression by the Bush administration.
Although such warnings have become part of President Hugo Chavez's verbal arsenal against the Bush administration, the comments by Mr. Ramirez, coupled with the increasing sale of oil to China, are seen by oil experts and political analysts as a signal that Venezuela is serious about finding new buyers. 
 ''Physically it's very feasible, and politically it's very feasible,'' said Lawrence Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a New York policy analysis group financed by the industry. ''It comes with an economic penalty, but apparently Chavez is willing to pay that price.''
 That economic penalty comes in the increased costs to transport crude from oil-rich Latin America to as far away as China and India, two fast-growing, energy-hungry giants that are eager to buy Venezuelan oil. China is a 30-day tanker trip from Venezuela, while the United States is just 5 days away and is well-equipped to refine the heavy, highly sulfurous Venezuelan oil .
 Mr. Chavez's government, which has increasingly been sparring with the Bush administration over everything from the Iraq war to the Venezuelan leader's close ties to Cuba, is moving swiftly to forge energy ties with China. Venezuela has said that this year it will double exports to China, to 300,000 barrels a day. Venezuela ships about 1.5 million barrels a day to the United States.
 Mr. Ramirez, in an interview with the daily newspaper Ultimas Noticias, played down the hurdles in replacing the United States as a buyer. ''We're prepared to diversify our markets and will work toward that,'' he was quoted as saying. ''The easiest thing is locating it. That will not be a problem.''
 Echoing Mr. Chavez's fears of an American attack on Venezuela, Mr. Ramirez said that Venezuela would respond by shutting off exports. To consume more Venezuelan crude, China would have to configure more of its refineries to process Venezuela's particular type of crude. Venezuela also would have to increase its fleet of tankers and build a pipeline to Colombia's Pacific coast.
 The threats out of Caracas have not been lost on the White House, high-ranking American military officials and Republicans in Congress, who in public hearings and closed-door sessions have addressed both Mr. Chavez's warnings about diversifying oil markets and China's increasing role in Latin America.
 ''I think they're not as quick to dismiss his bluster as they used to be,'' said Michael Shifter, a senior analyst at the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington policy group that follows American-Venezuelan relations. 
 ''His intention to switch his markets away from the United States is quite clear,'' Mr. Shifter said. ''The question is, does he have the capacity to carry it out and how quick could he carry it out. The concern in the White House is that he's moving more quickly than they thought he was able to move.''
 Oil analysts say that if Venezuela does shift markets, the United States would be able to find other suppliers, but it would take time and cost more. ''It's a global, homogeneous market, so if China gets supplies from Venezuela, then they're not getting supplied from the Middle East and elsewhere,'' said Mr. Goldstein of the petroleum foundation. ''That all then becomes available. There's no change in supply. There's a change in redirection of supply, at a higher cost.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICS (75%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%); BULK SHIPPING (58%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%) Juan Forero; Rafael (Min) Ramirez; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (55%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (92%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Venezuela; China

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



589 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; White House Letter; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: A Presidential Passage Through India, Quickly 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush is planning a two-day wind sprint across India this week, when he will meet with political leaders, chat up high-tech millionaires and give a speech at a 16th-century fort. But to the consternation of the Indians, he will not see the country's most famous monument, the Taj Mahal, a decision that Mr. Bush said was made by an omnipotent scheduler.
 ''Look, if I were the scheduler, perhaps I'd be doing things differently,'' Mr. Bush said last week, when he was asked in an interview with Indian reporters at the White House why he was skipping the Taj. ''I'll be the president, we've got the scheduler being the scheduler. I'm going to miss a lot of the really interesting parts of your great country. I know that.'' 
Mr. Bush has never been a sightseer, and his planned two days in India and one in Pakistan are typical of a president who visited the Great Wall of China in 30 minutes flat. For the most part, the president's India is one of strategic calculations -- a hoped-for nuclear deal, a booming market for American goods, an Asian powerhouse to counterbalance China. 
 But Mr. Bush did sound notes of eagerness last week about his first-ever trip to India, the world's largest democracy and a country that has long cast a powerful spell on the Western imagination. People who know Mr. Bush say he has an interest in the country through little-known personal and political connections in Texas. While he was governor, Mr. Bush befriended a number of prosperous Indian doctors and businessmen, all Republicans, who captivated him as embodiments of the American dream and contributed handsomely to his campaigns.
 One of them was Durga Agrawal, the founder of a Houston-based company, Piping Technology and Products, who was born 60 years ago in a village in central India without electricity or a water supply. Mr. Agrawal went to high school 14 miles away and returned home, by bicycle, only every three or four months. He went from there to the University of Delhi and then to the University of Houston for master's and doctorate degrees in industrial engineering.
 ''I really admire the professors in this country,'' Mr. Agrawal said in a telephone interview on Friday. ''We foreigners come, and they pour their hearts, souls and minds into us, and we do not speak like them, but they educate us.''
 Mr. Agrawal first met Mr. Bush when he was running a second time for governor, and said he had raised as much as $100,000 among Indian friends for Mr. Bush's 2000 and 2004 presidential campaigns. He was a guest at the state dinner for the Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh, last July, and said he was stunned when the president seemed to remember him so easily.
 ''All of us claim to know the president very well, but we wonder if he really knows us,'' Mr. Agrawal said. ''But he introduced me to the prime minister of India as 'my good friend from Texas.' I was totally taken by that. I tell people about it all the time.''
 Another Indian supporter of Mr. Bush from Texas, Dr. Virendra Mathur, said that a president who has made the spread of democracy a central theme of his second term was naturally inclined to support a country where the political opposition so regularly trounces the incumbents. ''The fact that the ruling party gets overthrown in almost every election tells you that democracy really works,'' said Dr. Mathur, a cardiologist in Houston. Mr. Bush, he said, ''realizes that India has a lot of potential, and he's watching the 7 to 8 percent annual growth rate.''
 Mr. Bush is also said to get along well with the prime minister, Mr. Singh, even though Mr. Singh's daughter, Amrit, is a Yale-educated staff lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who regularly detonates explosive news releases against the Bush administration. (''The public has a right to know the full truth about the treatment of detainees not just in Abu Ghraib but elsewhere in Iraq, Afghanistan and Guantanamo Bay,'' she said in a release this month, after new photographs of abuse at the Abu Ghraib prison were made public.)
 Mr. Singh, the son of subsistence farmers who earned a doctorate in economics from Oxford University and then drove India toward economic reform as finance minister in the 1990's, has an engaging manner that Mr. Bush likes. ''The previous Indian prime minister was a man of very few words,'' said Michael Green, the former senior director for Asian affairs on the Bush White House National Security Council, speaking of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. ''When I was a note-taker for meetings with him, I would rarely go beyond one page. The current prime minister is a very modest man, very humble man, very sincere, very charming. And there's a nice chemistry.''
 In interviews last week, Mr. Bush said that he would have to visit the Taj Mahal, a three-hour drive from New Delhi, another time. (President Bill Clinton, an avid sightseer, visited the Taj on a five-day trip to India in 2000.) 
 ''The part of international travel he likes the best, and the part he's best at, is meeting with other leaders,'' said Mr. Green, who is now a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''He'll make a lot of time for that, and he'll spend a lot of time preparing for it. That for him is the high value for travel.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Taj Mahal, in Agra, India, is one of the most visited tourist sites anywhere. But it will not be on President Bush's itinerary. (Photo by Kamal Kishore/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POWER FAILURES (66%); ENGINEERING (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) United States International Relations; Taj Mahal

COMPANY: PIPING TECHNOLOGY & PRODUCTS (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3441 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); DELHI, INDIA (58%) TEXAS, USA (90%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



590 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: The Search for a Cure For Misdiagnosis

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Although I am not a doctor, I've learned a lot about the reasons doctors order tests in my more than 20 years of performing tests in medical laboratories. 
Most physicians have been trained to believe that when they hear hoofbeats, they should think of a horse, not a zebra. Following this advice ordinarily leads to a correct diagnosis. 
 While some unusual or rare diseases may be overlooked, economics and time make it impossible to test for every possible alternative diagnosis. 
 I believe that most doctors would agree that a thorough history and physical by an experienced physician followed by a few carefully selected tests would result in a much higher percentage of correct diagnoses than would routinely ordering every possible test while minimizing the history and physical. 
 Routine shotgun ordering of tests does not seem to help either the diagnostic process or the patient's health or purse.

Norman Solanch
Bridgeport, Conn., Feb. 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Medicine and Health; Doctors; Tests and Testing

PERSON: Norman Solanch

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%) CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



591 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Usual Civic Fights Subside as Yonkers Hopes for $3.1 Billion Project 

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: YONKERS, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
On the west side of this old mill city, a place defined not by what it is but by what it could be, prosperity is measured by the number of new buildings scattered along the Hudson River waterfront: a $53 million library, finished under budget and ahead of schedule; the refurbished Yonkers train station, with its arched windows and domed tiled roof; and two luxury condo towers and the restaurants, bars and banks that have sprouted around them.
 Step across Warburton Avenue, just three blocks to the east, and the pulse of a budding neighborhood suddenly flat-lines. There are boarded-up homes and empty storefronts, rotten wood and peeling paint. The shops in Getty Square, the heart of downtown, sell little beyond cheap furniture and dollar goods to the mostly poor, immigrant families who are their last loyal patrons.
Standing outside her home on nearby North Broadway, where the stoop wobbled under a visitor's feet, Graciela Garcia, 29, said dejectedly, ''I've given up hope that anyone can change the way things are around here.'' 
 ''It's like we've been forgotten,'' Ms. Garcia said, ''like no one really cares.''
 But earlier this month Mayor Philip A. Amicone stood beside the City Council president, Chuck S. Lesnick, to promote a $3.1 billion plan to turn downtown, the waterfront and dozens of acres of abandoned mills into an expansive network of new homes, offices and stores.
 ''You're going to see the kind of development that we couldn't even dream of five years ago, the kind of development that will finally provide the city of Yonkers the much-needed revenues, the thousands and thousands of jobs, the kind of excitement that we can only talk about and that will now become a reality,'' Mayor Amicone said on Feb. 2, when he unveiled the plan at a City Hall news conference.
 It was an instance of political cohesion in a city that hardly ever achieves it.
 Attempts at improving the once-alluring west side go back as far as 1964, when city officials devised a plan to turn the Getty Square business district into a pedestrian mall that would compete with the Cross County Shopping Center, which opened a decade earlier near Yonkers Raceway and shifted the axis of retail to the east side of town.
 The pedestrian mall never materialized, nor did many of the other plans devised to resuscitate this dying commercial hub. They were doomed, in most cases, because the city had no money or because its politicians could not get along -- or both.
 It is remarkable that the redevelopment plan exists at all. But in a city known for racial and ethnic volatility, lawsuits, upheaval and feisty political brawls, even more surprising is that opposition to it remains muted so far. 
 ''This development is our last best hope,'' said Joan Jennings, 60, assistant director of the city's Downtown/Waterfront Business Improvement District and a native of Yonkers, who moved out in 1958 but returned five years ago and has since lived downtown. 
 ''The business owners, the residents, they're tired of being disappointed,'' Ms. Jennings said. ''This city has endured 30 years of broken promises. We can't wait another 30 years for an opportunity like this to knock on our door.'' 
 Many downtown merchants, who are likely to see their weary shops replaced by shining office towers, new storefronts and apartment buildings, seem resigned -- and, in some cases, eager -- to accept the plan. 
 ''I'm in favor of change because if there's no change, there is no progress,'' said Elbert Shamsid-Deen, 63, who has owned Thruway Insurance Brokerage in Getty Square since 1987 and is one of many minority business owners downtown. 
 ''However, the city should make some provisions for the people who are here, the people who stayed here during the difficult times, so that they can have a place in the community,'' Mr. Shamsid-Deen said. ''These people -- and I'd like to include myself in this group -- deserve a piece of the pie.''
 The $3.1 billion project would cost almost as much as the $3.5 billion Atlantic Yards development in Brooklyn, a planned complex of 9.1 million square feet of residential towers, a basketball arena, offices and retail space, which has been described as the third-largest ever in New York City. The Yonkers project would be financed by a combination of state and federal money, which still has to be secured, and investment by the developers.
 The first phase consists of developing two large blocks downtown, including Getty Square and a nine-acre parcel known as Chicken Island, which has functioned for at least 20 years as a municipal parking lot. 
 If all goes as planned, a minor league baseball park will rise above two floors of stores. Around it, there will be a hotel, a multiscreen movie theater and at least seven other buildings with 500,000 square feet of retail and office space, as well as 800 apartments. 
 To make room for the new construction, the developers have, over the past four months, bought two-thirds of the mainly commercial properties that line Palisade and Nepperhan Avenues and New Main and Elm Streets at a cost of nearly $30 million, said Louis R. Cappelli, president of Cappelli Enterprises of Valhalla, N.Y., one of the three companies that will execute the project. (The two other companies are Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse of Baltimore and Fidelco Realty Group of Millburn, N.J.)
 The developers and city officials said they are hoping to proceed without having to invoke eminent domain. So at times, the developers said, they have offered some merchants twice the market value for their property, and then offered to help the merchants move their businesses along the edges of the development -- close enough for the businesses to benefit from the foot traffic the new stores might generate, Mr. Cappelli and several downtown merchants said. 
 ''Remember, all of this is just about money,'' Mr. Cappelli said. ''These are businesses -- there are a lot of 99-cent stores, there are a lot of small restaurants -- that can move and use the money they got from selling their old shops to create a better business a block away or two blocks away.''
 To the merchants whose businesses lie within the limits of the new development, the question is whether to sell and retire or sell and move up the street. To those whose businesses are just outside the boundaries, it is a matter of how long it will take until someone offers them big money for their piece of land.
 One recent morning, from behind the busy counter at the Galaxy Restaurant, which is cater-corner to the northwestern edge of the development, Louis Vlahopoulos said he did not plan to move, but wondered, ''just out of curiosity,'' how much the business he has owned for 24 years would be worth.
 Five years ago, Mr. Vlahopoulos, 56, bought three buildings on Main Street, in the long block that separates Warburton Avenue and Getty Square. Recently, he said, someone offered him $2.5 million for the buildings, but he decided to wait it out, hoping he could sell for a lot more once the new development gets off the ground.
 ''One way or another, everybody is trying to get their hands on something,'' he said. ''The big guys want to buy land, the little guys want to get as much as possible for the land they own.''
 The optimism is palpable among merchants and residents, many of whom say that this time downtown Yonkers is finally going to get its groove back. But there is also a sense of discomfort in the air, a feeling that the locals might become the outsiders once the crowds come back to shop and live downtown.
 Mayor Amicone himself said in an interview that he hoped the new apartments would lure couples whose children have left home and young professionals who work in New York City but cannot afford to live there. He is banking on these people, and on the added sales and property tax revenue, to lift Yonkers from its financial black hole. The city faces a $100 million deficit in its 2006-7 budget and the mayor has been making the rounds in Washington and Albany to raise money to close the gap one last time, he hopes.
 Meanwhile, the agreement signed this month between the mayor and the developers is under review by the City Council, which needs to approve it before the project can move forward. In spite of a few squabbles over the value assigned to municipal property to be sold to the developers, a deal may not be too far on the horizon. 
 ''The mayor and the City Council know that this project is good for Yonkers,'' said Mr. Lesnick, the Council president. ''And we've realized that it's much better for us to work together and fight for the credit each one deserves after the project is done than stop the project because we can't agree and then say that the other is to blame.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Louis Vlahopoulos, owner of the Galaxy Restaurant in Getty Square, one of the sections of downtown Yonkers that would be affected by a huge proposed development. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Waterfront renovations do not extend to Getty Square, just three blocks east of the train station. A proposed new project would change that.
 A $53 million library, across the street from the train station, is part of a rehabilitated Yonkers waterfront. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B6)Map of Westchester and the Bronx shows the location of Yonkers. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); POLITICS (70%) Area Planning and Renewal; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: Cappelli Enterprises; Struever Bros, Eccles & Rouse; Fidelco Realty Group

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Yonkers (NY); Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



592 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; A Haunted House, Clinging to Secrets; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: The Irresistible Pull of a Decaying Home on a Queens Cul-de-Sac

BYLINE: By MICHELLE O'DONNELL

 BODY:
Every winter, when the trees drop their leaves, a certain house in Laurelton, Queens, comes into full view. It is a decrepit Victorian on a cul-de-sac at 141-36 222nd Street, a structure whose condition has made it known as ''the haunted house.'' 
 To say the condition of 141-36 is woeful seems, well, woefully inadequate. Its siding is weathered to the marrow, and most of its windows are boarded over. An ''X'' painted on the cupola warns of weak floorboards. A locked chain-link fence seals it off from society. A small armada of boats lies beached in the yard under a sea of blue tarp.
Three yellow traffic signs posted at the corner announce, with a Cassandra-like quality, ''Dead end,'' ''End,'' ''Dead end.'' 
 For all its decay, 141-36's most haunting detail might be that it is listed in city records as ''owner occupied.'' The prospect of finding life behind its boarded windows seems slim indeed, though that hasn't kept passers-by from lingering when they see it, and daydreaming about what might be inside. 
 ''That's my favorite house,'' said Aaron Fox, a drug counselor who rents a place nearby. ''It looks like it's got so much to say. But it can't.''
 Everyone who comes across 141-36 sees something different: a junk heap, a mansion, a victim, a survivor, a house. The once elegant house's rotting condition inspires some to concoct stories of how it came to be, or to dream of the time capsule of collectibles that surely lie inside.
 ''He's an outdoor type or something,'' Mr. Fox surmised about the owner, indicating the boats in the yard. 
 Just how long -- and why -- 141-36 has been neglected is anyone's guess. These are the months when commuters on the Long Island Rail Road, whose tracks run along the southern edge of the property, can see it from the train, and some drive by on weekends to inquire about it, neighbors say.
 ''The haunted house,'' said Roger Allick, who lives nearby and fields frequent queries about 141-36, though he knows nothing about it. ''Everybody's curious about that house.''
 There are other dying Victorians in Laurelton, a frayed patch in the southeastern hem of Queens. Yet none have the faded majesty of the two-and-three-quarter-story house that is 141-36.
 Long before the borough's arcane street, road, drive and avenue numbering began, 222nd Street was known as College Avenue, 141st Road was Lincoln Avenue, and 141-36 sat amid a scattering of large three-story homes for well-off families.
 Small clues survive: Census data from 1930, which is the most recent detailed information publicly available, shows it was then the home of a family named Gross. The father, Albin, who was unemployed (it was during the Great Depression), had paid $11,000 for 141-36, and lived there with his wife, Katherine, their teenage daughter, also Katherine, and his brother, Walter, a mail carrier.
 A Municipal Archives tax photograph from around 1940 shows a hardly recognizable 141-36: wholesome, well maintained, a perfect example of suburban tranquillity.
 Now 141-36, in all its fading glory, towers over tidy houses thrown up in brick and vinyl, some sprouting satellite dishes that hint at how many apartments a home has been carved into. 
 Neighbors offer a few more tantalizing clues, though any reality becomes hard to disengage from the myths that 141-36 can't help but inspire.
 Martha Barfield, who moved into her home nearby on 141st Road in 1971 with her husband, Oscar, and two children and is one of the last old-timers, recalls the couple who used to live in 141-36.
 The husband was German and the wife stayed in most of the time, she said. She could not recall the family name. One of the sons, who appeared to be mentally handicapped, was friendly and waved when he walked to the corner store for cigarettes, she said. 
 ''The wife got sick, then the husband got sick -- they weren't friendly people,'' she said. The parents died, and that son eventually went away to live, she said.
 The house was left in the care of the other son, she said. Already weathered, with a porch and yard teeming with castoff items, 141-36 fell into even greater disrepair.
 The block association wrote to the city's planning board, which once sent a tree-trimming crew. 
 Otherwise, the property has been left alone, and is still owned by the surviving son.
 ''He's in there,'' Mrs. Barfield said. ''We all know this.''
 In -- there? That seems very unlikely. The gate was padlocked, the windows boarded up, and there was no apparent heat or electricity. The next express to shudder by seemed to send it toppling. 
 Mrs. Barfield offered one hypothesis circulating among neighbors: the bunker. Years ago, she said, when the roundabout at 225th Street and 141st Avenue was being dug, the father and sons were seen at night hauling stones back to their house to build what the neighbors thought -- though they had no evidence to support it -- was an underground chamber.
 That piggybacked on other baseless rumors that were fueled by the fact that the father was German and that in 1964 an otherwise ordinary German housewife in Maspeth, Queens, was unmasked as a former guard at a Nazi death camp.
 Nevertheless, rumors, a reality in every neighborhood, persisted. 
 Milly Fountain, who has lived across the street from 141-36 since 1964, said she could not recall a single day when the house was in good condition. Speaking through a locked screen door, she said she was exasperated at finally being asked about the house after her years of complaints had fallen on the city's deaf ears. 
 Whether or not there was a bunker, she could not say, but she did say that whoever lived at 141-36 burned wood for heat. 
 Some years ago, after complaints from neighbors and with the house in increasing disrepair, Sally Martino-Fisher, the district manager of Community Board 13, called Adult Protective Services to check on the elderly father. 
 Caseworkers who went to the house were unable to get beyond the fence, she said. A spokesman for the agency confirmed this account, and said that the father had apparently died. (This reporter's query prompted the agency to send caseworkers to the house again; they, too, were unable to gain access.)
 An operator said a telephone in the house was working, but no one answered the many rings. And no one ever appeared during this reporter's visits to the home over two weeks.
 It was time to check records. The deed to 141-36 revealed the owner to be Oswald E. Bauer. The Web site of the Department of Buildings showed three violations relating to the house's condition, but all were listed as closed. 
 The Department of Finance Web site showed that in 1998, Oswald Bauer appeared at the department's office in Jamaica, Queens, and a woman named Emma Bauer gave him power of attorney and, for $10, the deed to the house. She signed the documents with a slightly shaky ''X.'' 
 Since 2004, the property taxes for the home have been paid in cash, a city spokesman said.
 And what of Mr. Bauer's parents? According to city and Social Security records, Alfred Bauer, a previous owner, died in 1996. Mrs. Fountain, the neighbor across the street, said she remembered the elderly mother being taken away one day to live elsewhere. 
 There was one more thing. Mrs. Barfield, the neighbor, said that the remaining son worked for the New York City Transit Authority. Could he be Oswald E. Bauer?
 Finally: a chance to solve the mystery of 141-36. 
 A call to Mr. Bauer was placed at the transit authority, where a spokesman located him and said he worked a day shift in the field on capital projects. A message was left for Mr. Bauer about the interest in his house. 
 Mr. Bauer returned the spokesman's call, but he declined to be interviewed, leaving intact much of the mystery surrounding a house that keeps attracting attention as much as its owner seems to shun it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Even longtime neighbors are in the dark when it comes to the decrepit house at 141-36 222nd Street, in Laurelton, Queens. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
The home at 141-36 222nd Street in Laurelton, Queens, which has come to be known as ''the haunted house,'' in a 1940 tax photograph from the Municipal Archives, left, and as it now looks. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
 (Photo by New York City Municipal Archive)(pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (67%); TRAINS (65%) Haunted Houses

PERSON: Michelle O'Donnell; Oswald E Bauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



593 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Tenants Say They're Lost In Dust of Conversions

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

 BODY:
Bruce E. Bernstein made his way past the wires hanging from the ceiling and the pile of trash in the hallway to the freight elevator on the 10th floor of his apartment building on the Upper West Side.
 The passenger elevator was not working, nor was the garbage chute. Mr. Bernstein and many of his neighbors at 230 Riverside Drive say that construction noise and thick layers of dust replaced the quiet sense of community in the middle-class rental building at 95th Street after the new landlord announced plans in December 2004 to convert the building into a luxury condominium. And one by one, Mr. Bernstein said, more than 100 residents left after the owner refused to renew their leases.
 ''Since the conversion process started, we have been treated as if we don't live here,'' said Mr. Bernstein, an executive for a software trade association. ''Existing residents have little power over the process. People should be aware: if they can do it here, there are an awful lot of other buildings in the city they could do it in.'' 
 Neither the owner making the conversion, Brack Capital, nor its lawyer returned calls requesting comment. 
 Whatever the situation at 230 Riverside Drive, which offers views of Riverside Park and the Hudson River, there is no doubt that the conversion craze of the new millennium is on in New York City, with the number of rental apartments being turned into condominiums each year more than quadrupling since 2003. Unlike the boom in the 1980's, tenants are often out of luck and out on the street when the owner comes calling, especially at rental buildings in prosperous neighborhoods like the Upper West Side.
 While many more rental units were converted in the 1980's than are now, tenants today have little leverage over issues like the hours and extent of renovation work and whether a steep discount in purchase price is offered.
 In the past, many tenants in rent-stabilized units could use their occupancy rights to pressure landlords into offering all residents an insider's price, which could be about half of what people from outside the building would pay. Many residents who had never dreamed of owning their own homes were able to buy their apartments and enjoy substantial appreciation over time.
 But today, with conversions making a comeback after a 15-year lull, the advantage has gone to the owner making the conversion because of a combination of rising real estate prices and a successful lobbying effort by landlords seeking to end rent regulations for thousands of apartments. Tenants in rent-regulated apartments are protected from eviction -- even when a building is being converted to condominiums.
 Unlike the 80's, today the number of rent-stabilized tenants are often in the minority and unable to block a conversion. Not only do residents fail to get an insider's price, but even tenants paying market rents often do not get the chance to buy their apartments because their leases expire before the units legally go on sale. That allows converters to combine apartments and sell vacant units at a much higher price.
 ''The laws haven't kept up with the market,'' said Jacqueline Ancess, 62, who has lived at 230 Riverside since 1968. ''The laws don't give a darn if middle-class people live in Manhattan or not.''
 There has been a surge in the conversion of rental buildings since 2004, said Kenneth Demario, an assistant state attorney general in the office's real estate finance department, which oversees conversion plans. But there are far different consequences for tenants today than in the 80's.
 From 1980 through 1989, more than 35,000 apartments a year were converted to co-ops or condominiums, a total of 353,955 units over 10 years, according to the attorney general's office. 
 Mr. Demario said a majority of tenants in most buildings then were rent-regulated. They had a lot of leverage, he said, because they could refuse to go along with the conversion.
 A recession brought the pace of conversions to a mere 142 units in 1994. But now, with a seemingly insatiable demand for housing at almost any price, conversions are making a comeback, jumping to 6,101 last year, compared with 1,405 in 2003.
 In the intervening years, however, landlords lobbied successfully for vacancy and luxury decontrol, which removed from rent regulation thousands of apartments that rent for more than $2,000 a month. 
 As a result, rent-stabilized tenants no longer represent as sizable a block in many buildings and are less able to pressure landlords by refusing to go along with the conversion plan, which must be approved by 15 percent of tenants. Market-rate tenants, in turn, have little or no leverage.
 ''Right now, you're pretty much out of luck when the lease runs out,'' Mr. Demario said.
 That is proving to be a crushing reality for Carol Stock, an elementary school principal who lives in the Sheffield, an apartment house at 322 West 57th Street, near Eighth Avenue. Her building is also being converted into condominiums. She said that finding her apartment, which has views of Central Park and the Hudson River, was a dream come true.
 Only 15 percent of the 845 apartments in the building are rent regulated. So there are no negotiations between the tenants and the owner making the conversion. Ms. Stock, a market-rate tenant, said that she would like to buy her apartment, but that she feared that she would never get the chance because her lease had expired. Hundreds of her neighbors have left the building.
 The uncertainty prompted the majority of people whose leases have expired to move out, said Kevin R. McConnell, a lawyer for the Sheffield tenants' association. ''Their business plan is to throw everyone out of the building, enlarge the apartments, renovate them and get their money,'' he added. 
 The tenants' association said it was prepared to defend itself if the owner goes to court to evict any of the remaining tenants. 
 It is easy to see what is at stake for the owner making the conversion. An investment group led by Kent Swig paid a record price for an apartment house when they bought the Sheffield in April for $418 million. Still, if their conversion is approved and everything goes according to plan, Mr. Swig's group will double its investment. The average asking price is $1,358 a square foot, with a two-bedroom apartment on the top floor going for $2.37 million.
 Mr. Swig said he wanted residents to buy apartments and had offered some tenants month-to-month leases. But in the same interview, he also said: ''We're not going to renew leases. If they don't have a lease, they have to leave.''
 Mr. Swig blamed the state law governing conversions for the problem. The law, he said, prohibits him from negotiating with tenants before his conversion plan is officially approved.
 ''Yet, I've got to renovate,'' he said. When they cannot talk, it causes problems for tenants and owners making conversions alike. ''It's unfair for them, and it's unfair for us.''
 But veteran tenant lawyers like David Rozenholc dismiss Mr. Swig's comment as an excuse. ''I'm sure there is a mechanism that could be worked out to resolve the issue,'' Mr. Rozenholc said. ''He believes he will make more money if he gets them out of there.''
 Gale A. Brewer, a city councilwoman whose district includes the Upper West Side, has called for greater tenant protections and a moratorium on decontrolling rent regulations.
 ''The free-market tenants have a new challenge, which is particularly unfair,'' Ms. Brewer said. ''They have no choices and are being forced out. This is something we are trying to change in Albany.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce E. Bernstein, left, Naomi Spatz and Steven Somkin say their quality of life has been disrupted.
 An apartment building at 230 Riverside Drive on the Upper West Side is undergoing renovations. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); EVICTION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); LOBBYING (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); LAWYERS (64%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Condominiums; Law and Legislation; Housing

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Michael S Schmidt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006



594 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Ending Tariffs Is Only the Start; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: In Poorest Lands Like Laos, Limited Markets, Skilled Labor and Banks 

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: VIENTIANE, Laos 

 BODY:
The Venture International factory here, where rows of Laotian women sew flame-retardant cloth into coveralls for oil rig workers, should, in theory, benefit from a global agreement in December to eliminate almost all barriers imposed by rich nations on exports from the world's 50 poorest countries.
 The coveralls fashioned at Venture's garment plant, several blocks from a secret military base where American officers once planned bombing raids against North Vietnam, are already worn by Halliburton and Schlumberger workers all over Southeast Asia. But because of tariffs up to 28 percent, the coveralls are not sold in the United States.
Such tariffs will probably disappear under a plan approved at the World Trade Organization's conference in Hong Kong. The plan, the biggest trade concession by the advanced industrial economies to the poorest countries in many years, is intended to help the poor lands compete with China's ever-growing export machine and, in the process, transform the lives of many in Africa and here in Southeast Asia whom the world has passed by. 
 But the coveralls factory, like many businesses in the least developed countries, will continue to struggle, even if the tariffs are gone. Practically all the poor countries face a host of other problems, from weak transport links to shortages of skilled labor to virtually nonexistent credit markets.
 It costs Venture as much as 45 percent more than a Chinese company to ship each 40-foot container to Los Angeles, because the containers must go by road across Thailand before they can be loaded onto a ship, said John F. Somers, the company's Dutch managing director. Venture cannot use its factory and equipment as collateral for loans in Laos's modest banking market, making it costly and difficult to borrow.
 The hourly productivity of labor here is a third lower than in China or in neighboring Vietnam, even after training, because workers coming straight from small villages have little experience with machines. And English-speaking office workers who can communicate with vendors and customers are in short supply, and United Nations agencies with large budgets have bid up the salaries of those who are available to as much as eight times what a Laotian teacher earns.
 With all these expenses, it costs Mr. Somers around $4 to cut and sew a winter jacket with a synthetic sheepskin lining, for example -- more than American retailers are willing to pay. ''They are offering $2.65, and why?'' he asked. ''That is what they are paying in China.''
 At the same time, the W.T.O. agreement to dismantle trade barriers is drawing criticism, particularly from groups in the United States fearing low-wage competition. American textile companies and farmers of long-protected crops like tobacco and sugar, which are especially unhappy, are situated in Republican states in the South where they could yet turn the agreement into a political issue.
 They are particularly upset that the plan allows each country to preserve tariffs and quotas on just 3 percent of all categories of imports from the poorest countries. The categories are so limited that traditional allies in protectionism will compete over who continues to receive protection and who will lose it and be exposed to global competition.
 ''You end up with a rather nasty debate,'' said Augustine D. Tantillo, head of the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition in Washington, which represents industries struggling to cope with imports, especially textiles and apparel. 
 The agreement to eliminate trade barriers on the poorest countries' exports is dependent on the completion of global trade talks in which tough issues remain, notably whether the European Union will agree to reduce its farm subsidies. But the Hong Kong plan goes a long way toward meeting the poor countries' objections, which have been the biggest stumbling block for the last six years, repeatedly bringing talks to a standstill.
 Countries like India, China and Brazil are not poor enough to qualify for the special treatment. But textile producers like Bangladesh and Cambodia do, along with tobacco and sugar growers like Zimbabwe and Malawi and cotton producers like Chad and Burkina Faso. 
 The W.T.O.'s record in helping the poor has been spotty until now. At the start of last year, it erased almost all quotas on textiles and apparel around the globe, a move originally intended in 1993, when it was negotiated, to help very poor countries. But the quota removal has mainly benefited China, a W.T.O. member since 2001. Other developing countries have been forced to try to promote other exports, often commodities, in which they are competitive. The European Union and the United States have reimposed quotas on some shipments from China, but at much higher levels than before. 
 Only a quarter of the $47 billion in the poor countries' exports to the industrial economies were subject to tariffs in 2003, the most recent year available, because commodities like oil from Angola and copper from Zaire were exempt. The United States alone accounts for half the purchases subject to tariffs from the least developed countries. Those purchases are expected to rise quickly if the trade barriers are lifted.
 For poor seamstresses and farmers in large areas of Asia and Africa, the provision to eliminate most tariffs and quotas from the world's least developed countries holds the possibility of higher incomes. 
 These are people like Nang Pajik, 25, who was sewing collars on green work shirts at Venture's factory on a recent morning. Her six brothers and sisters still live in her home village tending the family's rice plot, but there is little other work there. Here, in the capital of Laos, she has found a husband, a salesman in a nearby store, and sends home part of her pay to her extended family.
 ''It's better in Vientiane,'' she said. ''I can earn money here.''
 Indeed, the governments of many poor countries say that the removal of tariffs and quotas should go beyond the Hong Kong agreement.
 ''It's just the starting point,'' said Love Mtesa, Zambia's delegate to the W.T.O. and leader of the 49-member caucus of least developed countries. ''We do believe that by 2013, we should be able to reach 99.9 percent'' of exports free from trade barriers.''
 Some of the greatest effect from the tariff-free, quota-free deal approved in Hong Kong could come in Laos, which is now negotiating its entry into the W.T.O.
 And Venture International should be among the biggest gainers. In addition to coveralls, it makes firefighters' uniforms, work shirts and other garments bought by companies for their employees. It is the only one of Laos's 55 garment factories accredited by Social Accountability International, a New York nonprofit group, as enforcing basic standards for the fair treatment of labor. Image-conscious Western multinationals are increasingly cautious about buying from factories that abuse workers, although some advocacy groups say that even greater vigilance is needed.
 Yet the extra costs faced by Venture's managing director, Mr. Somers, while doing business in Laos illustrate how difficult it is for companies in the world's poorest countries to compete with those in China. 
 He stays in business by sticking to niches like fire-retardant clothing and restaurant waiters' uniforms and by exporting heavily to the European Union, which exempts Laos, as a least developed country, from the 13 percent tax it levies on many garments from China.
 Mr. Somers has no such advantage in selling to American retailers and does not try to do so, even when American companies ask him to bid on orders. When the European Union imposed import restrictions on a range of Chinese garments last summer and the United States began preparing to do likewise, many American importers frantically called companies in Laos and other countries to arrange backup supplies.
 ''I suddenly had 20 to 30 e-mails a day from Wal-Mart and Wal-Mart-affiliated suppliers,'' Mr. Somers said, adding that he had refused even to quote prices because he knew that he would not be able to compete on price with the Chinese suppliers.
 Meeting Social Accountability International's labor standards is not what drives up the cost. Mr. Somers said that his factory, with 800 employees, used careful scheduling to avoid excessive overtime and did not hire the 15- to-17-year-olds legally employed by other Laotian garment factories, though the factory must pay a little more for slightly older workers.
 Mr. Somers pays about $50 a month, slightly more than teachers earn in Laos and comparable to what garment workers make in Chinese interior provinces or coastal Vietnam. That competitive edge is negated by the lower productivity of Laotian workers. The removal of tariffs is crucial in persuading buyers to visit a remote country like Laos. Even the exemption from the 13 percent European tariff leaves Venture able to undercut Chinese manufacturers by only 2 or 3 percent, Mr. Somers said, adding, ''Few want to fly out of Hong Kong for that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: With tariff cutbacks, a worker at Venture International can hope for higher pay. (Photo by Josef Polleross for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
The factory's director, John F. Somers, making a religious offering.
Counting and packaging trousers at Venture International's factory in Vientiane, Laos. The company aims its products at niche markets abroad. (Photographs by Josef Polleross for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Exports From the Poorest''Steep tariffs on garments and complex tariffs and quotas on sugar, tobacco and other farm goods have meant that the world's 50 poorest countries mostly commodities like oil to the United States and Japan
 the European Union has removed most trade barriers to goods from these countries.Total exports of least developed countries, 2003: $46.3 billionSUBJECT TO TARIFFS -- $12.8 billionU.S. -- $6.8Japan -- $0.9Other developed countries -- $0.1Developing countries -- $5.0 billion(Source by World Trade Organization)Map of Laos shows the location of Vientiane: Finished products in Vientiane, Laos, are sent through Thailand. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TEXTILES (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%) International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Labor; Credit; Transportation; Shortages; Apparel; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) World Trade Organization; Venture International

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (93%); CHINA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); THAILAND (92%); HONG KONG (79%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (59%) Vietiane (Laos); Laos

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



595 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Not All Roads Lead to China

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
From automobiles to semiconductors, China is fast catching up with the rest of the world in manufacturing prowess, making it a formidable competitor for exporters everywhere. But does its rise necessarily spell doom for Southeast Asia's big manufacturing centers?
 Not according to Teh Hok Peng, a manager at the Taiwanese electronics maker BenQ's factory in Penang, Malaysia.
Four years ago, as high-tech factory jobs in Malaysia were shifting to China and obituaries were being written for Southeast Asia's electronics industry, Mr. Teh went with the trend: he packed up his wife and two small children and moved to Suzhou to manage BenQ's factory there as it began shifting production out of Penang.
 Since then, however, Southeast Asia's big economies have proved the doomsayers wrong. Instead of shutting their factories and relying on raw material exports as many pessimists predicted, the more prosperous countries -- Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines -- have generated a roughly $20 billion trade surplus with China in 2004, supplying it with sophisticated electronic components. For the first eight months of 2005, the surplus was $13.6 billion. 
 In contrast, the United States trade deficit with China was $201.6 billion in 2005, while the European Union's was $70 billion.
 Today, Mr. Teh is back in Penang managing BenQ's factory, convinced that, while China may be closing the technological gap, it still has a long way to go to unseat Southeast Asia as a base for electronics exporters. 
 ''China remains attractive thanks to the size of its market,'' he said, ''but the multinationals will never leave here completely.'' 
 While Southeast Asia seems to have staved off the worst, a debate has arisen in the region: can China's southern neighbors remain strong exporters, feeding its appetite for components, or will China inexorably draw those industries inside its own borders?
 Trade figures indicate that China is fast gaining self-sufficiency in electronics parts, and that Southeast Asia's trade surplus may have peaked. Yet Southeast Asia's factories are still humming, suggesting that two electronics centers are emerging, somewhat interdependent, but rivals all the same.
 ''People are suddenly saying, 'We shouldn't be expanding in China at the exclusion of everything else,' '' said Dharmo Soejanto, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities in Singapore. ''They're taking a more balanced view of the world. China is not going to manufacture everything.''
 In particular, manufacturers have found unexpected obstacles in China. Rampant technology piracy, resurgent nationalism and -- surprisingly in a country of 1.3 billion people -- a dire shortage of highly skilled labor are raising costs in China so fast that many manufacturers are looking back to Southeast Asia. 
 Even as foreign investment continued to flood into China last year, anecdotal evidence suggested the pendulum might be swinging slightly to the south: Intel has applied to build a $605 million semiconductor factory in Vietnam. Infineon Technologies of Germany is building a $1 billion chip plant near Penang, and the Japanese company Matsushita Electric Industrial is planning a plant in Singapore to assemble plasma-display televisions.
 Others, however, believe China will prove a magnet, with its knockout combination of a huge market and low salaries. 
 ''It's just a reality of the business model,'' said Mario Morales, an electronics supply chain analyst at the market research firm IDC in San Mateo, Calif. ''People are outsourcing a lot more, and China has established a pretty good infrastructure.''
 That would be consistent with the trend of the last few years. The flood of investment into China since its entry to the World Trade Organization in 2001 has come largely at Southeast Asia's expense. 
 Foreign direct investment into Southeast Asia has fallen by one-third since 1996. In 2004, Japan invested twice as much in China as it did in Southeast Asia. 
 The impact was powerful. The Malaysian government estimates that almost 15 percent of Penang's manufacturing jobs were lost from 2001 to 2003. By 2002, pessimists were talking about a ''huge sucking sound'' of investment halting Southeast Asia's industrialization. 
 But then something different happened: Southeast Asia experienced a boom in exports of electronics components to its supposed nemesis. In 2003, Southeast Asia's exports to China jumped by more than 50 percent, led by a 67 percent jump in electronics shipments. Many government officials and industry experts heralded this development as evidence that Southeast Asia was ''climbing the high-tech ladder'' ahead of China. But it was not long before Southeast Asia's component manufacturers started heading north too.
 ''The contract manufacturers, the component manufacturers, the guys that build the boards and the parts, followed their customers along to China,'' Mr. Soejanto at Kim Eng Securities said. 
 This migration has created what some economists say is a worrying trend: shipments of electronic components to China are growing more slowly than China's own exports of electronic goods. Economists say that means manufacturers in China are buying more components at home. While some economists say the slowdown in components exports is a temporary product of China's efforts to slow its economy, others say it portends the long, inevitable decline predicted five years ago. 
 As for Southeast Asia's hope of climbing the high-tech ladder, China may have an edge there, too. China's companies outspend most Southeast Asia companies on R.& D. And Beijing's carrot-and-stick approach to investment ensures that companies hold back only their very latest technology. ''China can encourage investment and penalize those who don't import technology,'' said Xavier Chong, chief executive of the Singapore company Ellipsiz, which services semiconductor makers. 
 China already accounts for nearly 12 percent of global chip production, according to IDC, and Chinese factories now verge on state of the art, according to Betty Lin, an analyst at IDC in Taipei. While Southeast Asia has failed to create a single major international brand, China is following in the footsteps of Japan and South Korea with brand electronics exporters of its own -- TCL in televisions and Haier in home appliances.
 The outlook is not entirely negative for Southeast Asia, though. China's rise has hastened efforts by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to lower tariffs and other barriers to create a common market of its own 544 million consumers.
 But a bigger factor in Southeast Asia's nascent revival are the disadvantages manufacturers face in China. China suffers power shortages, for example, while Singapore's top-notch infrastructure continues to draw investment: 3M, ASML, Hewlett-Packard and I.B.M. are just a few of the big names that have announced plans to build new factories in the island-state.
 Anti-Japanese riots last year convinced many Japanese companies, analysts say, that they need to offset their China risk with a presence in Southeast Asia. Some manufacturers have even begun to require that their suppliers in China have sources of supply outside, said Heng Huck Lee, executive director of Globetronics, a semiconductor company based in Penang.
 Weak intellectual-property protections are another problem, and many companies fear that competitors will steal their best product designs. 
 But the most common frustration foreign investors face in China -- and one of the biggest surprises -- is the spiraling cost of increasingly scarce skilled labor, which on China's eastern seaboard can roughlyapproximate salaries in some of its Southeast Asian rivals. Indeed, executives say hiring an engineer in Guangdong already costs more than hiring one in Malaysia. The result, they say, is rampant job-hopping among highly skilled and factory-floor Chinese workers. 
 At BenQ's factory in Suzhou, Mr. Teh said, four of every five employees were poached each year. Engineers are so highly prized that BenQ has to offer them interest-free housing loans. 
 ''I don't see a compelling reason to build there,'' said Mr. Chong at Ellipsiz. When Ellipsiz decided to build its own chip equipment plant in 2004, it chose Vietnam. 
 Globetronics built two plants in China, and has been disappointed. While it plans to keep one of its China factories, Globetronics sold its chip-testing plant in Shanghai last year. Mr. Heng, Globetronics' executive director, commented: ''Cost-wise, it's terrible. We didn't make anything back from the investment.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (63%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (63%); CHILDREN (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (51%) International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

PERSON: Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); ASIA (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (96%); MALAYSIA (95%); SINGAPORE (93%); THAILAND (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Malaysia; Singapore; Indonesia; Thailand; Philippines; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



596 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Short on Drivers, Truckers Dangle Stock and 401(k)

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
The men gathered in front of the BZ Ballaz Club barbershop in a gritty, mostly Hispanic section of North Philadelphia were listening intently as Kimberly Cromer made her pitch for a career in long-haul trucking.
 ''Why pull $7 an hour cutting hair when you can make $19 an hour driving an 18-wheeler?'' Ms. Cromer said, handing the men a pamphlet in Spanish explaining the requirements for a federal commercial driver's license. ''Seriously guys, don't you want to get a job with a future and get out of this neighborhood to see the country?''
Faced with what trucking experts describe as the worst labor shortage in the industry's history, recruiters like Ms. Cromer are canvassing cities and holding job fairs. 
 Fueled mostly by retirements, the driver shortage grew dire, industry economists say, starting in 2000 when average wages in construction and other blue-collar jobs surpassed those of long-haul drivers. 
 ''Guys figured, why be out on the road for three weeks when they could swing a hammer during the day, make more money and sleep in their own bed each night?'' said Bob Costello, chief economist for the American Trucking Association. 
 With predictions from the association that the current shortage of 20,000 drivers will grow nearly fivefold within a decade, trucking companies are offering generous 401(k), stock option and health care packages to new recruits and cash bonuses and prizes to drivers who refer viable candidates. 
 In hope of stealing drivers from competitors, companies have begun outfitting more of their cabs with satellite radio and television and introducing policies to allow drivers to bring pets and spouses on the road.
 Allied Holdings, a trucking company based in Decatur, Ga., employs chaplains to check on the morale of its drivers. Schneider National, based in Green Bay, Wis., holds ''driver recognition days'' every few months at regional repair shops, featuring Elvis impersonators, free barbecue and raffles for motorcycles and iPods. The trucking association has also begun pressuring large truck stops to add Internet portals.
 ''Hands down, this is the most serious crisis the industry has faced,'' said Duff Swain, president of the Trincon Group, a transportation consulting firm in Columbus, Ohio. ''Close to 10 percent of major fleets have their trucks sitting up against the fence because they're short on drivers.'' 
 Since more than three-quarters of all goods in the United States are shipped by truck, it is only a matter of time, Mr. Swain said, before the shortage causes delays in products hitting the shelves and leads to consumer price increases because of rising transportation costs.
 Despite the 7.4 million Americans out of work as of last December, and the recent round of layoffs in manufacturing industries, trucking has struggled to find workers in part because the lifestyle is so grueling. 
 ''I missed my son's birth, first steps and kindergarten graduation,'' said Nasser Adams, who has been a trucker for eight years. ''And I'm better off than most drivers who don't get home every weekend like I do.'' 
 Mr. Adams, 47, said that before he began hauling bottled beer for the Abita Brewing Company last year, he drove chemical tanker trucks. ''Now that's stressful stuff,'' he said. ''One wrong move and you're in a traffic accident with a bomb at your back.''
 Since 2000, drivers' wages have started to rebound, though they have not caught up with construction, according to the association. In 2004, the average annual pay for a truck driver was $34,920, compared with $37,890 for a construction worker, according to the Department of Labor.
 Union truck drivers make on average about $60,000, and roughly 10 percent of all truck drivers in the country are unionized, an economist with the Teamsters said.
 The driver shortfall is expected to worsen in coming years since about 219,000 of the country's 1.3 million long-haul truckers are over 55 and are likely to retire in the next 10 years. 
 ''It's called long-haul trucking for a reason,'' Mr. Costello said. ''Even though a lot of companies are redesigning routes for shorter runs, it's hard to avoid long stretches away from home, and that's a tough way to live.''
 Victor Rivera described another factor that adds to drivers' stress: time pressure. 
 ''You don't get a hotter load than this,'' said Mr. Rivera, 34, referring to deadlines that come with perishable cargo like the $150,000 worth of shrimp in his refrigerated 18-wheeler at the TA Trucking stop just off Exit 57 on Interstate 95 in Baltimore. ''You're making seven or eight stops for one truckload, and if traffic or whatever backs you up at the beginning of your run, all the rest of the stops have to be rescheduled, and the dispatcher gets really angry.''
 Trucking companies also complain that they need to hire even more drivers because federal rules passed in January 2004 limit how long their drivers can remain on the road each shift before resting. Under the rules, truckers can drive for 11 hours at a time, but they have to take 10 hours off between shifts, 2 more hours than previously required. 
 ''Trucking is incongruous with what we've come to expect with the blue-collar economy these days,'' said Donald Broughton, the transportation analyst with A. G. Edwards & Sons, a brokerage firm based in St. Louis. ''Productivity improvements mean that other industries are scaling down whereas it still takes one driver per truck to move goods, and there is little way around that. What's more, other industries can outsource, but trucking can't.''
 To meet the growing need, some carriers are turning to new sources of labor like women, retirees and especially Hispanics. 
 ''The industry realizes that Hispanics are the fastest-growing population in the country, and they're eager to tap into them,'' said Ms. Cromer, who works for Congreso de Latinos Unidos, a community group in Philadelphia that joined forces in 2004 with the Truckload Carriers Association to begin recruiting more Hispanics into long-haul trucking. 
 Companies have begun advertising on Spanish radio and in Spanish newspapers, and trucking schools have added intensive English courses to help prepare their non-English-speaking population to pass the federal exam required for a commercial license. Federal transportation laws require that long-haul truckers be able to speak, read and write English and undergo background checks and drug tests.
 The number of truck drivers who are not white males increased to 30 percent in 2004, up from 26.6 percent in 2001, according to the Department of Labor. Hispanics now account for 15 percent of all truck drivers, up from 12 percent during the same period, federal records show.
 ''We decided two years ago to switch trucking companies because we had the leverage,'' said Claire Rocha, who, with her husband, Daniel, drives for the Celadon Group, a trucking company based in Indianapolis. Ms. Rocha, 51, said that they earned about $100,000 between the them, a 10 percent increase over what they were earning. ''There couldn't be a better time to be a team driver,'' she said. 
 Chris Burruss, president of the Truckload Carriers Association, said that many truck driving schools were getting calls from trucking companies looking for husband-wife teams or female drivers. 
 ''Women spouses are especially attractive once they have finished raising their kids because they start wanting to spend time with their husbands on the road,'' Mr. Burruss said. ''Women are also seen by a lot of carriers as more dependable and less prone to jump from company to company.''
 Todd Jadin, senior vice president of operations for Schneider National, said that in hope of bolstering retention, his drivers in January 2004 received the largest raise in the company's 70-year history, about a $4,000 annual increase for drivers who averaged about 100,000 miles per year. 
 ''But more than wages, it's really quality-of-life issues that matter,'' said Mr. Jadin, citing the stress of traffic and rushed hauls across country, coupled with unpredictable schedules and long periods away from home as the main factors deterring people from entering the profession.
 With that in mind, Mr. Jadin said that his company had redesigned some of its routes so that several hundred of its 15,000 drivers could sleep at home at least 17 weeks a year. The company has also tried to increase the 500 or so husband-wife teams it employs because they have lower turnover rates than single drivers, he said. 
 But the most popular move has been the company's driver appreciation events, Mr. Jadin said, like the one the company held in January in Memphis, featuring an Elvis impersonator and free barbecue.
 ''That event was a really big hit,'' Mr. Jadin said. ''I guess a little Elvis goes a long way when it comes to boosting morale and keeping drivers on the job.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kimberly Cromer of Congreso de Latinos Unidos talked with Edwin Torres about becoming a truck driver. (Photo by Scott Lewis for The New York Times)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCKING (91%); US 401K PLANS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (63%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%) Trucks and Trucking; Shortages; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Health Insurance and Managed Care; United States Economy; Trucks and Trucking; Trucks and Trucking

ORGANIZATION: American Trucking Assn

PERSON: Ian Urbina; Duff Swain

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



597 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Chaos in Darfur Spreads, Violence Spills Into Chad
The widespread chaos in Darfur, the war-ravaged region in Sudan where more than 200,000 civilians have been killed, has spread across the border into Chad, deepening one of the world's worst refugee crises. A1

E.U. Offers Aid to Palestinians 

The European Union offered $142 million in aid to the Palestinian Authority after receiving a dire warning that the group was so short on money that it might collapse in the near future. A1

Iran Nuclear Program Advances
A report by the International Atomic Emergency Agency said Iran has accelerated its nuclear fuel enrichment activities and rejected the demands of international inspectors to explain evidence that raises suspicions of a nuclear weapons program. A10

Taiwan Dissolves China Council
President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan announced that he was scrapping the island's unification council and guidelines for any political unification with mainland China, defying warnings from both China and the United States. A9

Bosnian Genocide Case Begins
The International Court of Justice, a judicial body of the United Nations, began hearings in its first genocide case in which Bosnia charges that Serbia tried to destroy the Muslim population of Bosnia. A8

Four Killed in Mosque Bombing
Four people were killed in a bombing of a Sunni mosque, as Iraqi civilians anxiously returned to their daily lives after a bloody week of sectarian violence. A6

Germans Deny Aiding U.S.
The German government denied a news report that said its intelligence agency obtained Saddam Hussein's plan for defending Baghdad before the American invasion of Iraq and passed along the information to the United States. A6

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-6

ARTS E1-10

'Da Vinci' Trial Opens
Opening arguments began in London in a case that sets Dan Brown, author of ''The Da Vinci Code,'' against the authors of a nonfiction book who contend that he stole their ideas for his book. E1

New Editor for New Republic
Franklin Foer, a senior editor at the New Republic, is taking over as the head of the magazine next week. The quiet transition is unusual for the magazine, which was historically undergone more dramatic changes in leadership. E1

NATIONAL A12-16

Coast Guard Cited Risks About Dubai Ports Deal
Coast Guard intelligence officials in December raised the prospect of security risks associated with the management of some United States port operations by a Dubai company, saying in a previously undisclosed document that broad ''intelligence gaps'' prevented them from even assessing the terror threat. A15

Americans are strongly opposed to the Bush administration's agreement to allow a Dubai company to operate at American ports and are increasingly negative about the situation in Iraq, according to the latest CBS News poll. A15

Antiterror Agencies Fumble
A year after a sweeping government reorganization began, the agencies charged with protecting the United States against terrorist attack remain troubled by high-level turnover, overlapping responsibilities and bureaucratic rivalry, former and current officials say. A12

Overhaul at Red Cross Sought
A prominent senator urged the American Red Cross to overhaul its board and focus more on its mission of disaster relief, as he released hundreds of pages of Red Cross documents that revealed longstanding concerns about the organization's governance and practices. A12

Labor Leaders to Push Politics
With Republicans on the defensive over corruption, the A.F.L.-C.I.O's leaders voted to spend $40 million in the midterm elections. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Government Settles Suit Over Terror Detentions
The federal government has agreed to pay $300,000 to settle a lawsuit brought by an Egyptian who was among dozens of Muslim men swept up in the New York area after 9/11, held for months in a federal detention center in Brooklyn, and deported after being cleared of links to terrorism. A1

Standoff on Picking Judges
Arguments over how to change the New York State judicial selection process, which was ruled unconstitutional last month, are causing a standoff between the Assembly, which has passed legislation calling for publicly financed campaigns, and the Senate, which opposes such a measure. B1

Tap Reported on Kerik's Phone
Bronx prosecutors investigating former Police Commissioner Bernard B. Kerik obtained a court order to tap his cellphone last summer and listened to his calls for two months, according to two people with knowledge of the case. B1

FASHION B9

OBITUARIES A16-17

Otis Chandler
The publisher of The Los Angeles Times who transformed it into one of the most widely respected newspapers in the country, he was 78. A17

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Inside Guidant's Crisis
As the Guidant Corporation came under scrutiny last spring for not telling doctors about potentially fatal defects in its heart devices, the company's public message was upbeat. But newly released documents show that, inside Guidant, executives were struggling to contain a crisis. A1

New Home Sales Fall
The Commerce Department reported that January sales of new homes fell to their lowest level in a year. But prices increased, a sign that home builders are luring buyers with incentives rather than lower prices and that while demand weakened, it remained healthy. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: President Bush goes to India; sneak attack on Cape Wind; enter Suozzi, stage right.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E9
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); WRITERS (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); DAN BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SUDAN (94%); CHINA (93%); IRAQ (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



598 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Nations Rebuild Barriers To Deals

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
As the ties of world trade grow stronger and the tempo of globalization quickens, a boisterous player has re-emerged in the arena of cross-border mergers: government. 
 In the past month, efforts in continental Europe to keep foreign buyers out have spread. In the latest instance, French politicians said last weekend that the private utility Suez and Gaz de France would merge, effectively halting a bid by Enel, an Italian company, for Suez.
Elsewhere, the intrusion has been subtler, but palpable. In the United States, lawmakers have raised security concerns over Dubai Ports World's takeover of the British company Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation, which manages some United States ports. In Britain, officials fretted earlier this month over scrutiny by Gazprom, the Russian government-controlled monopoly, of the British gas company Centrica as a possible takeover target.
 Around the world, globalization has lowered barriers to entry. But some of its costs, like large-scale job losses, have created fertile conditions for politicians hoping to build national champions and keep out foreign buyers. Also, national security concerns -- about everything from energy sources to ports -- have coalesced into government action to keep strategic assets out of foreign hands. 
 ''There is no doubt that governments are becoming much more protectionist,'' said Michael Marks, chairman of the financial adviser NewSmith Capital Partners and the former executive chairman of Merrill Lynch's European operations. 
 Lorenzo Codogno, an economist with Bank of America in London, agreed that different countries had become more leery of foreign comers.
 ''Protectionism remains the major threat to global growth,'' he said. ''There are a number of countries that are increasingly uneasy about competitive pressures coming from Asia, and the softening of domestic industry.''
 Experts on mergers and acquisitions say the increased defensiveness is rooted, in part, in the success of globalization. In the last 12 months, companies worldwide have announced $1.06 trillion worth of acquisitions outside their borders, up from $627 billion the year before, according to data from Thomson Financial. 
 ''The occasional deal doesn't matter so much,'' said Julian Franks, a professor of finance with London Business School. ''It's the tide that's coming in, it's the size of the wave'' of companies trying to make purchases abroad that is spurring governments to act. 
 Another factor in Europe is a transition in many industries from government ownership to private management. The barrier-building and complaints about those barriers are reaching a fever pitch in part because of this shift. 
 ''People forget that for years, the pendulum swung one way'' in Europe, toward freer markets, said Pontus Lindfelt, a partner with the law firm White & Case who is based in Brussels and specializes in antitrust law and mergers. ''Maybe what we're seeing now is a backlash to all that freedom and liberalization that has been put in place.'' 
 The rising urge to protect national interests has deeper roots than just a desire to protect national interests, some experts in the field say. 
 ''An overseas owner may not have the same kind of approach as a domestic one,'' Mr. Franks said.
 ''If you're selling fried chicken I don't think it really matters, but imagine it is your largest steel company or your largest gas supplier,'' he said. ''I think one would want to take a careful look.''
 The nationalist feelings that are unleashed, however, may color relations with other countries. After the Suez-Gaz de France deal was announced, Italy's economy minister, Giulio Tremonti, warned that Europe was facing an ''August 1914 effect,'' referring to the rise in protectionism that helped set the stage for World War I. 
 European deal-makers and politicians say that Mr. Tremonti was exaggerating, but that government involvement in cross-border deals does have implications beyond the markets. ''There are growing political and social tensions'' involved with this sort of action, Mr. Codogno of Bank of America said.
 In the United States, the debate over Dubai Ports World's acquisition of Peninsular & Oriental is straining relations with one of America's few allies in the Middle East, observers have warned. 
 The concern over the Dubai deal comes in the footsteps of last summer's rebuff of the Chinese oil company Cnooc, which tried to take over the American company Unocal. Politicians in the United States scrubbed the deal by arguing that it might threaten the country's energy supply, even though Unocal supplied just a tiny fraction of those needs. 
 But that deal raised another issue: that of private companies competing against government-controlled entities like Cnooc, which presumably has the backing of a government flush with export revenues. 
 Britain is often held up as the country least likely to interfere with any foreign buyer. But when Gazprom, which is 51 percent owned by Russia, expressed interest in Centrica, it prompted an unusual round of sword-rattling. The British Department of Trade and Industry noted that any such deal would come under ''robust scrutiny.'' 
 Elsewhere, the Spanish government on Friday widened the veto power of its energy regulator to include foreign bidders. The move is widely seen as an attempt to block the purchase of Endesa, an electricity company, by the German utility company E.On, even though E.On's bid is about 7 billion euros more than that made by a competing Spanish suitor, Gas Natural. 
 French politicians, in fact, have claimed recently that they are just taking their cues from the United States. Several protested bitterly when Mittal Steel, a European company headed by an Indian executive who lives in London, began a hostile bid last month for Arcelor, a Luxembourg steel company with many workers in France.
 Thierry Breton, the French finance minister, said in an interview with Les Echos published Jan. 30 that he planned to tell the executive, Lakshmi N. Mittal, to ''look carefully'' at Cnooc's failed bid for Unocal. 
 Bids associated with emerging-market countries like China, Russia, India and Brazil have especially rankled the older, more settled economies of the industrialized world. In the long run, economists say, politicians, shareholders and citizens in Europe and the United States will just have to get used to them. Goldman Sachs economists forecast that by 2009, the annual increase in spending by those four emerging-market economies could be greater than that of the Group of 6, the world's six wealthiest nations. 
 France's reaction to the Mittal bid, and the American reaction to Cnooc's bid, are a natural reaction to the growing power of these economies, international trade experts say.
 ''The idea of working for a Chinese or an Indian firm is still so new that it does cause alarm,'' said Phillip L. Swagel, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. 
 Using the amount of time it took Americans to accept Japanese acquisitions in the United States as a guide, Mr. Swagel estimated it would be a decade before Europe and America are comfortable with the idea of third-world economies owning assets on home soil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); MERGERS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (75%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (74%); DIVESTITURES (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); HARBORS & PORTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LAWYERS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); TERRORISM (59%) International Trade and World Market; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Foreign Investments; Gas (Fuel); International Trade and World Market; Ships and Shipping; Ports; Stevedoring; Terrorism; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Unemployment

COMPANY: GDF SUEZ SA (83%); DP WORLD LTD (71%); PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (71%); OAO GAZPROM (70%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CENTRICA PLC (56%); WHITE & CASE LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; Suez; Gaz De France; Enel Spa; Dubai Ports World; Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co; Gazprom (Russian Co); Centrica Plc

TICKER: GSZ (PAR) (83%); GSZ (BIT) (83%); DPW (LSE) (71%); OGZD (LSE) (70%); GAZP (RTS) (70%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); CNA (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (71%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (71%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (71%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (71%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (71%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (71%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (70%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BELGIUM (79%); ITALY (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe; France; Italy; Dubai; Great Britain; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



599 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: EUROPEANS OFFER $144 MILLION AID TO PALESTINIANS 

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels for this article.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
After receiving a dire warning that the Palestinian Authority was so short of money that it might collapse in two weeks, the European Union on Monday offered $144 million in aid to the Palestinians before a Hamas government takes power. 
 The Europeans acted in partial response to a letter from James D. Wolfensohn, the special Middle East envoy of the so-called Quartet made up of the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations.
 Mr. Wolfensohn warned in a letter dated Saturday that ''unless a solution is found, we may be facing the financial collapse of the P.A. within two weeks,'' referring to the Palestinian Authority. The money from the European Union will not solve the Palestinian money crunch for very long, especially since most of it is not in cash, but it will ease the burden of repayments to suppliers. 
 A large Israeli oil company, Dor Alon, said Monday that it could no longer supply fuel oil and natural gas to the Palestinians because a check for some $35 million from the Palestinian Authority bounced last week. The European money will presumably ensure the flow of energy to the Palestinians in a chilly, wet winter. 
 The acting Palestinian finance minister, Jihad al-Wazir, said there was an immediate need for ''$60-80 million next week to begin to pay wages,'' Mr. Wolfensohn wrote in the letter to Quartet foreign ministers, warning of ''wide-ranging consequences'' for ''security and stability for both the Palestininians and the Israelis.'' 
 The Palestinian Authority's financial situation has worsened, said Mr. Wolfensohn, the former president of the World Bank. With estimated internal tax revenues of $35 million a month, and the loss of Israeli-collected tax and customs receipts of some $50 million a month, the Authority faces a monthly deficit of $130 million a month.
 For February and March, the period before a Hamas government is likely to take over, Mr. Wolfensohn said, the Authority may need as much as $360 million in new money. He said the Authority had to make loan repayments, pay arrears to private suppliers of energy and other goods, and meet the Bush administration's demand that it return $50 million provided last year for infrastructure improvements and used as collateral for bank loans.
 Israeli public companies supply electricity and water to the Palestinians, deducting the cost from the customs and tax revenues the Israelis collect for the Palestinian Authority. Israel is now withholding the revenues because of the victory of Hamas in the legislative elections last month.
 Israel argues that the recent swearing in of the legislature means that Hamas now controls the Authority, but the United States and the rest of the Quartet insist that President Mahmoud Abbas is still running a caretaker government that must be supported, and that any cutoff of financing should not take place until Hamas forms a government.
 Mr. Wolfensohn has been asked to help the Authority get through February and March. Matters will only get worse once Hamas is considered to have formed a government by the Quartet and more funds are cut off. But the Quartet is arguing about when that date will be, with the European Union and the United Nations now saying it is important to wait to see what the new government's program is before cutting aid.
 Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the European Union's external relations commissioner, emphasized on Monday that European aid was not going to Hamas. After a Hamas-led government is sworn in, she said, ''we have to see what will be the program of the government.'' 
 ''We have to give them time,'' she said. 
 In the interim, she said, the Europeans, like the Americans, are ''supporting the caretaker government and trying to do everything to give Mahmoud Abbas our full support.''
 Of the $144 million the Europeans pledged on Monday, about $47.4 million will pay energy bills that the Palestinians owe Israeli companies, $75.9 million will be channeled through the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees and $20.7 million is cash -- direct budget support to help pay salaries.
 The Quartet and Israel agree that relief aid to the Palestinians should continue, including money spent by United Nations organizations. The amount of money channeled through such organizations is likely to increase, but that will not pay the 135,000 or so Palestinians dependent on salaries from the Palestinian Authority.
 Mr. Wolfensohn, diplomats say, is arguing that he should try to get the Palestinian Authority through to June, when the Group of 8 industrial nations are to meet. But the United States and Israel fear that such a long period would allow Hamas to establish itself.
 Israel and other countries are examining how money might be given to the Palestinians without going through the Authority. Perhaps, the diplomats say, a new international structure can be built with the help of the World Bank to disburse the money directly, with international auditing to try to ensure that none of it goes to the security forces.
 In the interim, the Saudis have promised but not yet delivered $20 million for February, the Norwegians have promised another $10 million and Qatar has delivered $14 million, which has already gone to repay loans taken in January in anticipation of the donation. Iran has made vague promises to help Hamas with financing once it takes power.
 Diplomats are also considering how, within the World Bank's regulations, to allow the payment of a frozen $60 million, which was withheld in December because the Palestinian Authority, even before the victory of Hamas, broke promises of fiscal responsibility by raising salaries against international advice. 
 But the Wolfensohn letter notes that given the Palestinian failure to keep their promises, perhaps only $30 million will be disbursed. Compared with the monthly requirement, the amounts are small. 
 ''If we do not want to see rising tension leading to violence and chaos,'' Mr. Wolfensohn wrote, ''we will have to develop urgently a convincing strategy addressing the P.A.'s financial and developmental needs not only in the short-term of the next few weeks but also in a longer time frame.'' That includes the revenues withheld by Israel, he said, adding, ''It cannot be in Israel's interests to have a sharp deterioration of the economic and humanitarian situation next door.''
 But a senior Israeli official said Monday that Israel could not stand by while a group it considered terrorist and sworn to its destruction consolidated power next door, and that neighboring countries like Egypt and Jordan were also extremely nervous. ''We need to keep the pressure on Hamas and not give any discounts,'' the official said. ''The U.S. is with us, that pressure is very important now.''
 ''We take Hamas too seriously to think they will change in the short or medium run,'' the official said. ''It will take a lot of pressure to force them to change.''
 The European Union is the largest donor to the Palestinians, but like the United States it lists Hamas as a terrorist organization and is reviewing its aid once Hamas takes power. 
 In Israel, an official from the office of Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert stepped back from remarks on Sunday by Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, saying that Mr. Abbas was ''no longer relevant.'' But the official also said Israel had no intention of holding peace talks with him, because he was viewed as powerless to fulfill any agreement with Hamas controlling the government.

 Domestic: up to 70
From Israel: 0

SPENDING: 330
Wages and benefits: 230
Pensions: 60
Fuel payments/subsidies (net lending): 40

BUDGET DEFICIT*: 260

ANTICIPATED EXTERNAL FINANCING: 90-148
European Commission: 20-48
World Bank: 30-60
Norway: 10
Russia: 10
Saudi Arabia: 20

FINANCING GAP: 112-170

*Could grow by $100 million if loan repayments are required.

(Source by Office of James D. Wolfensohn)(pg. A4)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Palestinian Budget''The Palestinian Authority will have a $260 million budget deficit for February and March, about half of which will be offset with emergency money from donors.In millions of $REVENUE: up to 70

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); HAMAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); POLITICS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%) Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations; Palestinians; Finances; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); HAMAS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) European Union; United Nations; Hamas; Palestinian Authority

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%) Steven Erlanger; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; James D Wolfensohn

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) EUROPE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Israel; Russia; Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



600 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Agency Says It Got Few Answers From Iran on Nuclear Activity and Weapons 

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; William J. Broad contributed reporting from New York for this article, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Iran has accelerated its nuclear fuel enrichment activities and rejected demands of international inspectors to explain evidence that had raised suspicions of a nuclear weapons program, according to a report by a United Nations agency. That could make it easier for the United States and its European partners to seek punitive action in the Security Council.
 But the assessment, contained in an 11-page report released Monday by Mohamed ElBaradei, the director of the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency, the International Atomic Energy Agency, made no definitive judgment about whether the program was peaceful, or intended to create the capacity to produce weapons. That surprised some governments and even some agency officials who had predicted that the report would be harsher.
 The report laid out a long list of fresh examples in which it said Iran had stonewalled the agency, responding with incomplete and ambiguous answers and refusing repeated requests to turn over documents and information. 
 It called it ''regrettable and a matter of concern'' that Iran has not been more forthcoming after three years of intensive agency verification.
 In an indication that Iran is prepared to take a tougher line against the agency and even against the United States, Iran told inspectors on Sunday that documents obtained by American intelligence suggesting links between Iran's nuclear activities and its missile program were forgeries, the report said.
 The documents make reference to a secretive entity in Iran called the Green Salt Project, and seem to suggest that the project established ''administrative interconnections'' between Iran's uranium processing, high explosives and missile warhead design. If accurate, the documents would be the first to tie what Iran says is its purely civilian nuclear program to military activities. 
 But those allegations ''are based on false and fabricated documents,'' Iranian authorities were quoted as telling an agency inspection team on Sunday, an assertion that came after months of pledges by Iran to provide information on the matter. They also declared that no such project had ever existed.
 The report, released to the 35 countries that sit on the agency's decision-making board, also left unclear whether the Iranians had taken possession of copies of the disputed Green Salt documents, which would seem to be a necessary step if Tehran were to subject them to serious forensic examination and pass judgment on their authenticity.
 But the shift in the Iranian position seemed intended to call into question the reliability of American intelligence reports on Iran, and to remind the international community of the far-reaching American intelligence failure in overstating Iraq's nuclear program in the months before the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003.
 A senior administration official in Washington, who declined to speak on the record because of the delicate nature of the intelligence, said that Iran had been shown only a limited number of documents from the laptop computer that American intelligence agencies had obtained from an Iranian source.
 ''We knew they would question the credibility of the intelligence,'' the official said, ''but the other countries that have seen it can judge for themselves.''
 In another development, Iran informed the agency that it was planning at the end of this year to set up 3,000 centrifuges that enrich uranium as it moves toward industrial-scale enrichment, ignoring international demands that it return to a freeze on its uranium enrichment activities at its vast facility at Natanz, the report said. That would be enough to make a weapon if all technical problems were resolved. 
 The site is eventually to hold 50,000 of the machines, which would give Iran the technical ability to purify large amounts of uranium for either nuclear reactors or atomic bombs.
 The report also documents a number of contradictions between claims by Iranian authorities and the inspectors' evidence.
 An example of the serious discrepancies found by the atomic agency center on Iranian research on plutonium, one of the main fuels of nuclear arms. The report said the agency took a number of Iranian plutonium disks to Vienna for analysis of their makeup.
 The investigators found a major disagreement between the disks and what was said to be the solution from which they were made. The analysis revealed that eight of the disks had ''significantly lower'' amounts of plutonium 240. That finding is important because plutonium 240 is considered a pollutant in the making of nuclear arms, and nuclear engineers work hard to limit its presence.
 The report made no link between the plutonium 240 finding and its potential usefulness for making nuclear arms. Rather, in the agency's usual understated style, it simply noted the discrepancy.
 ''The story is not as straight as it has been presented to us,'' said a senior official with knowledge of the agency's investigation.
 As for its enrichment activities, the report added that Iran forged ahead with the program by feeding uranium gas in mid-February into a research cascade of 10 centrifuges that process it into enriched uranium. On Feb. 22, it said, Iran tested a 20-machine cascade that is now ready to receive the uranium gas.
 Under a November 2004 agreement with Britain, France and Germany, Iran agreed voluntarily to freeze all of its uranium conversion, enrichment and reprocessing activities.
 But when promised economic and political rewards in exchange for the freeze were not forthcoming, Iran broke the agreement, first by restarting uranium conversion last August and then by beginning tests of enriching uranium on Feb. 11, feeding the toxic, gaseous form of the element into a single centrifuge and then expanding the program.
 Despite the wealth of new information about Iran's nuclear activities, the report concluded that the agency ''has not seen any diversion of nuclear material to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices.'' It reiterated, however, the analysis of past reports that it ''is not at this point in time in a position to conclude that there are no undeclared nuclear materials or activities in Iran.''
 The United States, Britain, France and a number of other governments have been strongly critical of Dr. ElBaradei for not taking a tougher stance against Iran.
 But he is said to be determined to have the agency continue to play a leading role in negotiations with Iran and have as much access on the ground in Iran as possible, and is reluctant to turn Iran against him or the agency he heads, said a number of Vienna-based officials who speak with him regularly.
 In recent weeks, he has even told member states that the world might have to accept the fact that Iran will not capitulate to agency demands that it renew a freeze of its enrichment activities, a stance that has enraged the United States in particular, the officials said.
 But Dr. ElBaradei's report is certain to be used by the United States and the Europeans to push for a resolution critical of Iran when the agency board meets next week. On Feb. 4, the board voted to report Iran's nuclear case to the Security Council, a move that reflects increasing suspicion around the world that Iran is determined to develop nuclear weapons.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran with Kuwait's new emir, Sheik Sabah Ahmad al-Sabah, in Kuwait City yesterday. Mr. Ahmadinejad's government has revealed little about its nuclear program. (Photo by Yasser al-Zayyat/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); COUNTERFEITING (73%); FORENSICS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); EXPLOSIVES (65%); IRAQ WAR (63%) Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (74%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (59%) Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); KUWAIT (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006

 
