

201 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Publisher Adds Imprint For Special-Interest Appeal

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
Just a month after announcing a restructuring that led to layoffs and the shuttering of an entire division, HarperCollins Publishers hopes to jazz up its book lists by opening a new imprint. 
 This fall the company will publish 21 new hardcover and paperback original titles under the It Books imprint, focusing on pop culture, sports, style and content derived from the Internet, like a planned collection of Twitter posts called ''Twitter Wit.''
 The imprint will be led by Carrie Kania, who is currently publisher of HarperCollins's paperback unit, Harper Perennial. Last month she also inherited oversight of Collins Design, a unit of the Collins division that was closed during the restructuring. Some other planned titles for fall include ''The Style Strategy'' by Nina Garcia, a judge on ''Project Runway,'' and ''Chocolate, Please,'' a memoir by the comedian Lisa Lampanelli.
 During the past few years the publishing industry has gone imprint happy, creating logos for book spines and focusing on readers in special-interest categories, from African-Americans and Latinos to Christians and political conservatives. In other cases the imprints have been clearly designed to reward particular editors or publishers with their own fiefdoms.
 Michael Morrison, president and publisher of the HarperCollins's general books division for the United States and Canada, said that he and Ms. Kania had been discussing the It imprint for about six months, and that she and her team had been acquiring books during that period. 
 The team includes Mauro DiPreta, editorial director at Harper Entertainment, whose pending titles will be merged into the new imprint, and Cal Morgan, editorial director at Harper Perennial and a veteran of ReganBooks, the division, now defunct, led by the mercurial Judith Regan. ReganBooks was known for its sassy list of pop-culture-oriented titles, including ''How to Make Love Like a Porn Star'' a memoir by Jenna Jameson written with Neil Strauss.
 ''I think we've pulled together the best people within our company who are really interested in this and are targeting them to all work together to tap into the zeitgeist,'' said Mr. Morrison, who added that the company planned no new hires for the imprint.
 Ms. Kania said that it made sense to start an imprint during a recession. ''It's a response to the economic times in many ways,'' she said in an interview. ''It's escapism and fun. We want to publish books that people want to buy and read. As people turn to movies and television, we want them to turn to books as well, and this seems like a perfect fit for them.''
 The imprint will also include books in a subimprint, known as Igniter, organized by Mr. Strauss, a former reporter for The New York Times who wrote ''The Game,'' about singles-scene pickup artists, and Anthony Bozza, a co-writer of several autobiographies of rock stars. Their first title will be ''The World According to Bozo the Clown,'' a posthumously published autobiography by Larry Harmon, who popularized that clown character after buying the rights.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carrie Kania will lead HarperCollins's new imprint. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); CONSERVATISM (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); RELIGION (52%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



202 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Matters Of Principal

BYLINE: By JOHN D. GEANAKOPLOS and SUSAN P. KONIAK. 
John D. Geanakoplos is a professor of economics at Yale and a partner in a hedge fund that trades in mortgage securities. Susan P. Koniak is a law professor at Boston University.

 BODY:
TO stanch the hemorrhage of foreclosures, we don't need another bailout. What we need is a fix -- and the wisdom to see what is in our own self-interest. 
 An avalanche of foreclosures is coming -- as many as eight million in the next several years. The plan announced by the White House will not stop foreclosures because it concentrates on reducing interest payments, not reducing principal for those who owe more than their homes are worth. The plan wastes taxpayer money and won't fix the problem. 
 For subprime and other non-prime loans, which account for more than half of all foreclosures, the best thing to do for the homeowners and for the bondholders is to write down principal far enough so that each homeowner will have equity in his house and thus an incentive to pay and not default again down the line. This is also best for taxpayers, who now effectively guarantee the securities linked to these mortgages because of the various deals we've made to support the banks. 
 For these non-prime mortgages, there is room to make generous principal reductions, without hurting bondholders and without spending a dime of taxpayer money, because the bond markets expect so little out of foreclosures. Typically, a homeowner fights off eviction for 18 months, making no mortgage or tax payments and no repairs. Abandoned homes are often stripped and vandalized. Foreclosure and reselling expenses are so high the subprime bond market trades now as if it expects only 25 percent back on a loan when there is a foreclosure. 
 The taxpayers need not and should not be responsible for making up the difference between the payments due bondholders before a loan is modified, and those due after modification. Why? Because the bondholders and the banks, the ultimate beneficiaries of homeowner payments, will be better off if mortgages are modified correctly and foreclosures stopped. The government ''owes'' them nothing more than that.
 Why is writing down principal, which the Obama plan rejects, so critical to stopping foreclosures? The accompanying chart, courtesy of Ellington Management, an investment firm in Old Greenwich, Conn., tells the story.
 It shows that monthly default rates for subprime mortgages and other non-prime mortgages are stunningly sensitive to whether a homeowner has an ownership stake in his home. Every month, another 8 percent of the subprime homeowners whose mortgages (first plus any others) are 160 percent of the estimated value of their houses become seriously delinquent. On the other hand, subprime homeowners whose loans are worth 60 percent of the current value of their house become delinquent at a rate of only 1 percent per month. 
 Despite all the job losses and economic uncertainty, almost all owners with real equity in their homes, are finding a way to pay off their loans. It is those ''underwater'' on their mortgages -- with homes worth less than their loans -- who are defaulting, but who, given equity in their homes, will find a way to pay. They are not evil or irresponsible; they are defaulting because -- for anyone with an already compromised credit rating -- it is the economically prudent thing to do. 
 Think of a couple with a combined income of $75,000. They took out a subprime mortgage for $280,000, but their house has depreciated to a value today of $200,000. They've been paying their mortgage each month, about $25,000 a year at a 9 percent rate including principal and interest. But the interest rate is not the problem. The real problem is that the couple no longer ''own'' this house in any meaningful sense of the word.
 Selling it isn't an option; that would just leave them $80,000 in the hole. After taxes, $80,000 is one and a half years of this couple's income. And if they sacrifice one-and-a-half years of their working lives, they will still not get a penny when they sell their home. 
 This couple could rent a comparable home for $10,000 a year, less than half of their current mortgage payments -- a sensible cushion to seek in these hard times. Yes, walking away from their home will further weaken their credit rating and disrupt their lives, but pouring good money after bad on a home they do not really own is costlier still. 
 President Obama's plan does nothing to change the basic economic calculation this hard-pressed family and millions of others like it must make. The Obama strategy -- which involves reducing their interest rate for five years and giving them, at most, $5,000 for principal reduction over five years -- will still leave them paying much more than the $10,000 it would cost to rent. 
 And five years later, after the Obama plan has run its course, this couple will still not ''own'' this house. Those who accept an interest modification under that plan are likely to realize at some point that they are essentially ''renting'' a home and paying more than any renter would. Many of those families will re-default, and see their homes foreclosed. 
 Bondholders today anticipate making as little as $70,000 on a foreclosed home like that in our example. But consider how much might change simply by writing down the principal from $280,000 to $160,000, 20 percent below the current appraised value of the house. The homeowner might become eligible to refinance the $160,000 loan into a government loan at 5 percent, which would be impossible on the $280,000 mortgage. 
 Even if the couple couldn't refinance and still had to pay the original rate of 9 percent, the payments would be reduced to $14,400 a year, considerably less than the $25,000 now owed, and no longer wildly more than renting would cost. And the couple would have $40,000 of equity in the house: a reason to continue to pay, or to spruce up the house and find a buyer. Either way, the original bondholders would have a very good chance of making $160,000, instead of the $70,000 expected now. Everybody wins. 
 If writing down principal is such a good idea, why aren't banks and servicers (the companies that manage the pools of mortgages that have been turned into investment vehicles) doing it now? Many banks are not marking their mortgages down to the foreclosure values the market foresees, hoping instead that we taxpayers will buy out mortgages at near their original inflated value --another government bailout. Reducing principal would force them to take an immediate markdown, but a smaller one. The servicers, meanwhile, are afraid that bondholders, their clients, will sue them if they write down principal -- a real prospect because the contracts that allow servicers to modify securitized mortgages put restrictions on the kinds and number of modifications they may make. Moreover, making sound modification decisions is costly; servicers don't want to spend the money and lack the personnel to do the job.
 Beyond all that, the servicers have a conflict that all but guarantees they will not modify loans to maximize bondholder value. Once a homeowner is in default, the servicer must advance that homeowner's monthly payments to the bondholders, getting repaid itself only when the house is sold or the loan is modified. So cash-strapped servicers want to foreclose prematurely or do a quick-and-dirty modification (without due diligence and thus without considering principal reduction) to get their money back fast.
 Paying servicers, these conflicted agents, $1,000 per mortgage to reduce interest payments, as the Obama plan provides, is a bad use of scarce federal dollars. Last October, on this page, we proposed that Washington pass legislation that would remove the right to modify loans or decide on foreclosure from the servicers and give it to community banks hired by the government. These community organizations would have the power to modify mortgages (including reducing principal) when doing so would bring in more money than foreclosure -- particularly loans that are now current but are in danger of delinquency. Those now current would be presumed ineligible if they default before the trustees arrive to modify. Our plan is simple and would require little government spending, somewhere from $3 billion to $5 billion over three years, as opposed to the $75 billion or higher price tag for the Obama plan. 
 We know there are some who will be outraged at the idea that their neighbors might get a break, while they -- so much more responsible -- get nothing. To these outraged folks we say, you would benefit too. It is not just your home values and your neighborhoods that will deteriorate if you insist that your underwater neighbors not get relief; it is your tax dollars and that of your children that will be needed to make up for the plummeting value of those toxic assets held by banks, which we taxpayers now guarantee and may soon own outright. It is your job that will be at stake when your neighbors can no longer afford to buy goods and services, causing more companies to cut jobs. So you need to act responsibly again, for your own sake and for the welfare and future prosperity of the entire nation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); EVICTION (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



203 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA GUEST COLUMNIST HEADING HOME; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Bling Training

BYLINE: By DOUG GLANVILLE

 BODY:
Spring training has begun. It might be step one of a multiple-step program to the goal of a world championship. It might be an opportunity for a player to advance a level and maybe get noticed. 
 Dreams start here. They also can end here.
 But there is a beauty in the path to major league baseball that few sports can claim. It is the ultimate staircase -- slowly, methodically, and with quiet momentum, you gain confidence with each step you climb. Because it's such a slow road by sports standards, players have to learn to smell the roses at each stage, even if they're covered in thorns.
 I always thought it was interesting that as you go up, the amenities improve. You start in Small Town, U.S.A., in cities like Geneva, N.Y., or Huntington, W.Va., and end up in Miami or Los Angeles. The cities get bigger the closer you get to the big leagues. After Geneva, I went to Winston-Salem, N.C., then Daytona Beach, Fla., then Orlando, Fla., then Des Moines, then Chicago. And in fact the hotels get a little nicer, the stadium gets a little plusher, the clubhouse food tastes a little better. 
 In many respects it is a good system, even though there are plenty of carrots and sticks in the equation. Players learn a lot about humility and delayed gratification. You could be the best player on the planet and you will still taste a minor league bus ride, or a 6:00 a.m. practice in the Arizona desert. This is your rite of passage. You will advance when the brass is ready for you to advance. You could be ready in one area of the game and still at the high school level in another. So keep working.
 Although the adage ''have bat, will travel'' makes it clear that offensive productivity is king, that doesn't exempt you from having to improve your base-running, hitting, base-stealing, defense, defensive strategy, offensive strategy, positioning, training ... it just goes on, and if you don't do all of these at a close-to-major-league level, even if you get to the top, you will have holes in your game that may lead to your being bumped back down that staircase.
 Off the field, this dynamic creates a culture of upgrading. You go from Single-A to Double-A and that studio apartment becomes a one-bedroom, or you decide to pick up that new Xbox 360 so you can compete with your roommates. From Double-A to Triple-A, you scoop up that first car you had your eye on, or maybe you can get rid of roommates for once and for all. But there is nothing like going from whatever level to the major leagues. No telling what you might upgrade to. 
 What you covet as you advance is determined in part by the people ahead of you. It is a hyper-competitive environment and everyone is obsessed with what is happening in front of him. In spring training you cross paths with players at all levels in the organization, so you get to see what the next level looks like: ''Oh, that's what Greg Vaughn is driving.'' Or, ''I didn't know you could get that kind of jewelry on a Triple-A salary.'' Or, ''When did he start dating Jessica Biel? What happened to his high-school sweetheart?'' Guess she needed to be upgraded, too.
 But no one sets the tone like the major leaguers. And to a young and impressionable rising minor leaguer, it is tempting to do exactly what the big leaguers are doing. After all, these are the players you idolized as a kid.
 And so, all of a sudden, whatever you have is not enough. In fact, what you thought you wanted is not enough. It was fine in Single-A ball, but it's not going to pass the test in Triple-A. It is an internal battle to keep up with the Joneses, and it can play out in any area of your life if you are not careful. 
 Living on ''Temptation Island'' makes every single player susceptible to these material cravings. Those that don't fall prey (and there aren't many) are usually seen as having dedicated their lives to some pseudo-monastic pursuit. It is much easier to jump in and accept the ''island,'' and then try to extricate yourself from its clutches. Of course, jumping in makes getting out even harder, because it is kinda fun.
 My first car was a Toyota Camry (despite my brother's efforts to sell me on a Porsche). It was a practical and well-researched pick and it drove like a charm. When I reached the highest level of A-ball in Winston-Salem, I had three roommates, one of whom was the first-round draft pick from two years before, Earl Cunningham. He was a super talent, ran like a linebacker with size and power. One of his prized possessions was a white Mercedes-Benz he'd picked up from major leaguer Matt Williams. It even had this alarm system that said, ''VIPER! Stand back!'' All in all, there was no way my Camry could hold a candle to his car -- until one of our other roommates told Earl that my car rode more smoothly. Earl was crestfallen.
 I remember that when I played in Chicago, it seemed like every time Sammy Sosa bought something, my friend Jose Hernandez picked up the same thing in another color. I don't know if they were competing with each other or just teammates taking advantage of some bulk discount deal while shopping together on off days.
 Players will purchase just about anything, as if inspired to single-handedly act as our economic stimulus package. Player A knows someone who is selling something and vouches for him to Player B. So Player B buys from that someone. Pretty soon, the entire locker room is buying from this someone. It could be jewelry, houses, cars, cigars, whatever. A person who becomes a preferred vendor can start to influence the consumer culture of a whole team. 
 My first year in Philadelphia, I lived in a nice high-rise apartment on the 40th floor in the well-to-do Rittenhouse Square neighborhood. Great view, simple accommodations, reasonably priced. In my second year, my broker, with the best intentions, persuaded me that I deserved an apartment commensurate with major league tastes and needs. So, I moved. 
 This all-inclusive apartment had a weekly housekeeper, front desk service, you name it -- everything was taken care of. I was miserable there. The housekeeper gossiped to anyone who would listen about whatever my teammates and I were supposedly doing. Nothing like a lack of privacy in your own home. But I was in the big leagues, and I was supposed to live in the best place money could buy. 
 After a while, this attitude can take over just about everything. You start to notice your living quarters are getting nicer, more expensive, bigger and emptier. Single players usually ride this path right into enormous homes with no one living there except themselves and a dog, if they even have a dog. You have more services than you do socks.
 The walls around your home also get higher -- gated communities to protect privacy. Maybe you get that security system you thought was cool. For part of my career in Philadelphia, I lived directly across the street from Randy Wolf, a teammate and friend. I didn't see him for almost two years unless it was at the ballpark.
 Soon you are getting farther away from your original tastes and closer to what you think a major-leaguer is supposed to live like. It takes a lot of introspection to realize that as you are ''upgrading'' you hit an invisible peak and then hit this precipitous downhill slope of declining benefits -- because this particular home plate keeps moving, teasing you into needing to go just a little further. Sure, you could date actresses and supermodels until you pry Angelina Jolie away from Brad Pitt, but you forget that when your career is over, the people whose approval you've been seeking stop paying attention. (Then again, baseball players have no sense of time; there is no clock pushing us to do anything.)
 These diminishing returns are reflected in lost time or lost opportunity. Maybe you spend so much time chasing Halle Berry through her agent that you forgot about the girlfriend who was there for you when you had back surgery in the minor leagues. Maybe you get on a two-year waiting list for a car that only three people in the world have, only to miss driving your first car, the one with the sticky windshield wipers. Or maybe that McMansion going up on the waterfront for you and your posse (so that you can get onto ''MTV Cribs'') takes so long to build that when your grandmother passes away you realize you spent more time looking at floor plans than sharing her last moments. 
 I recall a teammate at Yankee spring training giving me this wisdom about saving money: ''Get a chef, you'll save on groceries.'' Sure, why not? But it's a shame when, deep down, you really love to cook.
 We call it advancement, the act of getting closer to something ahead or in front of us. But when we lock in on that target as the next step, sometimes we forget what got us here. The need to demonstrate success, the show and the glitter, all play into why we can end up chasing illusions that take us away from our true selves.
 All players battle with this in some form, and most get lost for at least a moment or two (if you are lucky, that's the worst of it). But when you get disoriented, you just have to be courageous enough to turn around, re-group and look for home. That place where you can look closer at the match-up of needs versus wants. Something all the more pressing in today's climate.
 Even if you have to go back down those stairs for a while.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



204 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: While Brooklyn Fusses, Newark Pushes for the Nets

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Newark 

 BODY:
 Mayor Cory Booker described himself as a ''hopeless dreamer'' Wednesday morning. 
 Booker had just finished presiding over a ceremony honoring Terrence Kelsor, a security guard from Newark who last week rescued a man who fell on the tracks as a PATH train was coming into the Christopher Street station in Manhattan. Booker praised Kelsor's courage and used him as an example of the impact citizens can have on one another.
 Booker extended the concept to the impact a professional team could have on a city. In fact, he said that when he spoke of being a dreamer, he was referring to bringing the Nets to Newark, the odds of which seem slim to none. 
 Everyone associated with the Nets' owner, Bruce C. Ratner, insists there is no way the Nets are staying in New Jersey. Ratner's vision has always been that the team would be the crown jewel of a sprawling real estate complex in Brooklyn. ''The fact is, we're going to Brooklyn,'' Brett Yormark, the Nets' chief executive, said Wednesday. 
 Booker is undaunted. He spoke confidently about luring the Nets. He was passionate in describing the economic and psychic impact they would have on the city, which already has a great arena in the Prudential Center, where the Nets will play two preseason games in October.
 ''We don't have to use state money to build anything,'' Booker said. ''The Nets coming to Newark would supercharge the city. I'm working on it every day.''
 He added, ''We think it's the right thing for the state, it's the right thing for the team and it actually makes sense.''
 Still, Ratner is determined to give Brooklyn a pro basketball team -- whether the borough wants one or not. So a franchise that has been searching for an identity, for a true home, is once again at a crossroads.
 Newark desperately wants the Nets; Brooklyn has been lukewarm. The Nets want lukewarm.
 From the moment Ratner announced plans to move the team to Brooklyn, the project has encountered wave after wave of protest. Using money, influence and political muscle, Ratner has waded through resistance the way a fighter wades through punches in hopes of landing a knockout blow. 
 There have been victories along the way, but no peace. 
 In early February, a major lender agreed to extend its loan and not demand full payment, which was due that month. Late last month, a state appellate court ruled against opponents who had challenged the $4 billion project on environmental grounds. 
 Another major decision remaining is a lawsuit challenging the state's use of eminent domain to seize private property on behalf of the project. A defeat could be devastating for the project, which is already reeling from the poor economy.
 The Nets, meanwhile, who struggled to draw fans when they were going to the N.B.A. finals, are again relying on opposing teams' stars to draw. Newark could help stop the bleeding.
 ''The team is hemorrhaging money,'' Booker said. ''I can show Bruce tomorrow how bringing the team to Newark will stop the hemorrhaging the team is doing right now.''
 In the event Ratner eventually wants to sell, Booker is looking at ownership groups willing to bring the N.B.A. to Newark. ''I am talking to some people who are interested,'' he said. ''I know that we can show them that this can be a moneymaking team.''
 He wouldn't be more specific. ''There's a lot of talk,'' he said.
 Last May, Ratner said the Nets were not on the market. But that was before a global economic tsunami hit. Still, with sponsors on board, there would seem to be no sentiment to sell. 
 The Nets have eight founding partners and it is believed they will be announcing a ninth next week. ''Corporate America believes in the project, the Barclays Center specifically,'' Yormark said, referring to the proposed Brooklyn arena. ''They know we're going to get there, and they want to be a part of it.''
 But Newark is a good fit for the Nets. It is a city with a rough-and-tumble past and a promising future. Most important, it would give the Nets an identity, something they have lacked for decades. 
 ''There is a compelling social-justice argument to make, that this team coming here will have a multiplier effect of social good in our city,'' Booker said.
 ''Newark is really a basketball city; this is something that should be here. For the team to leave New Jersey is ridiculous.'' 
 Meanwhile, Ratner, whose company, Forest City Ratner, was the development partner for the Midtown headquarters for The New York Times company, continues to nip and tuck and shrink his grand development project. In deference to a ravaged economy, he said he would build the basketball arena first and hold off on proposed office buildings and most of the housing until the economy improves. According to reports, he is trying to cut the estimated $1 billion cost of the arena in half in the hope of attracting financing and attracting more city and state subsidies. 
 Newark would be so easy. Unfortunately, that's never been the Nets' way.
 The struggle always continues. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); EMINENT DOMAIN (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); BASKETBALL (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); LITIGATION (62%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



205 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: House to Try Again to Let Judges Alter Mortgages

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After a brief revolt, the House is scheduled to vote Thursday on a measure that would allow bankruptcy judges to change mortgage terms to help homeowners avoid foreclosure, granting new authority some lawmakers say is central to easing the housing crisis.
 The Democratic leadership said it was confident it now has the support to pass the measure, which stalled last week, because of changes won by Democrats who said they feared that homeowners might use bankruptcy to win reductions in mortgages they could still afford. The Senate, where backers of the bill have faced stiff resistance, could consider its own version later this month. 
 Under the legislation, judges could reduce the principal owed, reduce the interest rate or extend the length of the loan. Currently, bankruptcy courts are prohibited from rewriting loan terms on primary residences even though those homes are at the heart of the foreclosure crisis. Democrats say the legislation, which would work in tandem with President Obama's new housing plan, could cut foreclosures 20 percent. It would apply only to existing mortgages, not future loans.
 ''Stabilizing the housing market is central to restoring the American economy,'' the Democratic leadership said in a fact sheet distributed Wednesday to encourage lawmakers to back the measure. ''We all stand to lose if we do not stop the steep decline in home prices.''
 The House was originally expected to easily approve the measure last week. But some Democrats who had heard complaints from the lending community and the public sought changes. They said they did not want the program abused by consumers who were simply seeking a way out of a costly mortgage while most Americans continued to make their payments.
 ''Our intention was to make sure this was available but as a last resort,'' said Ellen Tauscher, Democrat of California. She was joined by two state colleagues -- Zoe Lofgren and Dennis Cardoza -- in leading the push for revisions.
 To appease Democratic critics, backers of the bill made changes to try to ensure that homeowners first sought to negotiate a voluntary loan change from their lenders before filing for bankruptcy. 
 As a result, the bill requires a homeowner facing foreclosure to seek a loan change 30 days before pursuing one in court and to provide the necessary personal financial information to the lender. Judges would also be required to determine whether a voluntary loan modification had been sought from a lender before the homeowner entered bankruptcy.
 Judges would also have to weigh a person's income against the payments before deciding whether an interest rate or principal reduction was called for and use federally approved appraisal guidelines in determining a home's value. Other changes are also intended to prevent mortgage reductions in cases in which a person could afford the loan.
 Courts are supposed to be able to reduce a mortgage only to the current fair market value of the house and to structure payments in a way that would require homeowners to continue to pay off their original loan to the greatest extent possible considering income.
 ''Some may think the changes made to the bill go too far, while others will contend that they do not go far enough,'' the three California lawmakers wrote to their colleagues. ''Given the ever deepening housing crisis, however, we ask you to place such differences aside -- as we have done -- and support this effort.''
 Supporters of the bankruptcy change hoped they had made a breakthrough this year when Citigroup backed the initiative, but many other top lenders remain opposed, as do many Republican lawmakers. The bill is backed by AARP, consumer groups and other housing advocacy organizations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); JUDGES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%)

PERSON: ELLEN O TAUSCHER (58%); DENNIS A CARDOZA (58%); ZOE LOFGREN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



206 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign for Clean Drinking Water Expands

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A PROJECT that originated at a boutique ad agency to help Unicef deliver clean drinking water to children in developing countries is expanding in its third year as more firms join to support the cause.
 The Tap Project, as the initiative is called, is adding cities and sponsors and is going bilingual with ads in Spanish as well as English. It takes place this year during World Water Week, which begins on March 22.
 The Tap Project was introduced in Esquire magazine in 2007 by David Droga, the creative chairman at Droga5 in New York. The program (www.tapproject.org) allows patrons at participating restaurants to donate $1 to Unicef each time they order free tap water with their meals rather than costly bottled alternatives. 
 Since its inception, the Tap Project has raised almost $1 million to support Unicef water programs in countries like the Central African Republic, Guatemala, Haiti and Togo.
 The fund-raising took place only in New York the first year. In 2008, it was introduced nationally, expanding to more than a dozen other cities as additional agencies joined Droga5 in creating pro bono ads to encourage diners and restaurants to take part.
 The count this time is at least 19 cities. In addition, students at the Brigham Young University Ad Lab and the Virginia Commonwealth University Brandcenter are contributing ads along with a score of agencies.
 In another first, agencies that specialize in creating campaigns aimed at Spanish-speaking consumers are participating; there are three, producing work to run in Los Angeles, Miami, New York and Puerto Rico.
 As the economy deteriorated the last few months, there were fears the interest that had been shown in the Tap Project would wane.
 ''We're concerned on the restaurant side,'' said Jay Aldous, chief marketing and communications officer for the United States Fund for Unicef in New York, because many of them ''are struggling.''
 ''The case we're trying to make to them is that the Tap Project, correctly implemented, can help drive traffic,'' Mr. Aldous said.
 Joining a previous sponsor, the American Express Company, Mr. Aldous said, are the Watergeeks Laboratories, which makes products like water bottles, and Barnes & Noble, which will sell a line of Tap Project merchandise at the cafes inside its bookstores. 
 To offset any downturn in participation, the organizers will ''look at how to expand Tap beyond restaurants,'' he added. For instance, people are being encouraged to host parties that week and to donate money using their mobile phones; they can text ''tap'' or ''agua'' (Spanish for ''water'') to Unicef (864233) to make a $5 donation.
 ''In these trying times,'' Mr. Droga said, donations may not lag because people may be ''more aware of trying to do some good, to balance the misery.''
 ''The most exciting thing to me is the amount of agencies returning'' to help out, he added. ''My fear was the ones that did it last year would say, 'We ticked that box' and not come back.''
 The returnees include, in addition to Droga5, Energy BBDO in Chicago, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group; Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, also an Omnicom agency; Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos in Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Publicis West in Seattle, part of the Publicis Groupe; Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, another Publicis agency; and the Playa del Rey, Calif., office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of Omnicom.
 The three newcomers in the realm of Hispanic advertising are Casanova Pendrill in Costa Mesa, Calif.; Grupo Gallegos in Long Beach, Calif.; and PopuliCom in San Juan.
 Teresa Elston, managing director at Grupo Gallegos, was among a group of agency executives accompanying Unicef officials to Guatemala last month to see what donations to the Tap Project had accomplished.
 ''It doesn't take much to make a big difference,'' Ms. Elston said. ''It was amazing the differences between communities that had clean water systems and those that did not.'' 
 ''In the communities that didn't have water, most of the kids didn't have shoes,'' she added. ''The ones that did, the kids seem to be thriving in so many ways.''
 As for the effects of the economy on charitable giving, Ms. Elston said she believed that although ''those in more difficult situations may pull inward, those who still feel fortunate enough to be doing well in this environment may feel more like giving back.''
 The work being produced by Grupo Gallegos is to appear in media like television, radio, the Internet, magazines and newspapers.
 That is also the case for the ads being produced by Casanova Pendrill, which also plans an experiential element for its campaign centered on unusual vending machines to be installed in locations like Bayfront Park in Miami and Union Square in Manhattan.
 The vending machines would pretend to sell dirty, germ-laden water, said Ingrid Otero-Smart, president and chief executive at Casanova Pendrill, to symbolize ''the choices a mom is confronted with'' in countries where there is little or no clean drinking water for her children.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An ad aimed at Hispanics says, ''A glass of water can make the difference.''
A Barbra Streisand impersonator in an ad seeking donations for water systems.
 The ad for the Tap Project produced by students at Brigham Young University. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); BOOKSTORES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (93%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (82%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (63%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%); TOGO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



207 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Ivory Tower Unswayed By Crashing Economy

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
For years economists who have challenged free market theory have been the Rodney Dangerfields of the profession. Often ignored or belittled because they questioned the orthodoxy, they say, they have been shut out of many economics departments and the most prestigious economics journals. They got no respect.
 That was before last fall's crash took the economics establishment by surprise. Since then the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan has admitted that he was shocked to discover a flaw in the free market model and has even begun talking about temporarily nationalizing some banks. A Newsweek cover last month declared, ''We Are All Socialists Now.'' And at the latest annual meeting of the American Economic Association, Janet Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said, ''The new enthusiasm for fiscal stimulus, and particularly government spending, represents a huge evolution in mainstream thinking.'' 
 Yet prominent economics professors say their academic discipline isn't shifting nearly as much as some people might think. Free market theory, mathematical models and hostility to government regulation still reign in most economics departments at colleges and universities around the country. True, some new approaches have been explored in recent years, particularly by behavioral economists who argue that human psychology is a crucial element in economic decision making. But the belief that people make rational economic decisions and the market automatically adjusts to respond to them still prevails. 
 The financial crash happened very quickly while ''things in academia change very, very slowly,'' said David Card, a leading labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley. During the 1960s, he recalled, nearly all economists believed in what was known as the Phillips curve, which posited that unemployment and inflation were like the two ends of a seesaw: as one went up, the other went down. Then in the 1970s stagflation -- high unemployment and high inflation -- hit. But it took 10 years before academia let go of the Phillips curve.
 James K. Galbraith, an economist at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas, who has frequently been at odds with free marketers, said, ''I don't detect any change at all.'' Academic economists are ''like an ostrich with its head in the sand.''
 ''It's business as usual,'' he said. ''I'm not conscious that there is a fundamental re-examination going on in journals.'' 
 Unquestioning loyalty to a particular idea is what Robert J. Shiller, an economist at Yale, says is the reason the profession failed to foresee the financial collapse. He blames ''groupthink,'' the tendency to agree with the consensus. People don't deviate from the conventional wisdom for fear they won't be taken seriously, Mr. Shiller maintains. Wander too far and you find yourself on the fringe. The pattern is self-replicating. Graduate students who stray too far from the dominant theory and methods seriously reduce their chances of getting an academic job.
 ''I fear that there will not be much change in basic paradigms,'' Mr. Shiller wrote in an e-mail message. ''The rational expectations models will be tweaked to account for the current crisis. The basic curriculum will not change.'' 
 ''I hope I am wrong,'' he added.
 The political undercurrent undoubtedly makes change more difficult. There is a Crayola box full of differently named economic schools that are critical of mainstream free-market theory, but these heterodox -- as opposed to orthodox -- economists generally tend to fall into the liberal camp. 
 Given the short time span since the crisis began, no one expects large curriculum changes yet. But in addition to Berkeley and the University of Texas, professors at a number of departments including those at the University of Chicago, Harvard, Yale and Stanford, say they are unaware of any plans to reassess their curriculums and reading lists, or to rethink the way introductory courses are organized.
 John B. Taylor, an economist at Stanford and one of President George W. Bush's advisers, whose forthcoming book is titled ''Getting Off Track: How Government Actions and Interventions Caused, Prolonged, and Worsened the Financial Crisis,'' said he was planning to update his introductory textbook, ''Principles of Macroeconomics,'' because of the crash. But while the revision will include information about the financial crisis, he said, explanations of fundamental principles won't change. 
 To Philip J. Reny, chairman of the economics department at the University of Chicago -- Milton Friedman's intellectual home and free market headquarters -- such caution is a good thing. ''Academia typically moves slowly and carefully and thoughtfully,'' he said. ''There is a lot of speculation in the press'' as to why the financial system collapsed, he added, but a lot of ''work needs to be done to figure out what really happened, which dominoes are in front and caused others to fall.'' 
 Outside of the classroom, debates about the crash are taking place in several public lectures and faculty workshops on the subject. But ''before we're certain of what the answer is, we're unlikely to think in terms of changing the curriculum,'' Mr. Reny added. ''That's very serious. The responsible thing to do is wait until we have some understanding of what went on here.''
 There are a handful of departments that have welcomed alternative theorists, like the University of Massachusetts, Amherst; the University of Massachusetts, Boston; the University of Utah; and the University of Missouri, Kansas City (where the Heterodox Economics Newsletter is published).
 To Mr. Galbraith and L. Randall Wray, an economist at Missouri, the two thinkers whose work is most relevant today are John Maynard Keynes, who argued that the government should spend its way out of the Great Depression, and Hyman Minsky, who maintained that financial institutions could prompt ruinous crashes by taking on too much risk. Neither, Mr. Galbraith said, is part of the core curriculum in most economics graduate programs.
 When asked why graduate students don't study Keynes or Minksy, Mr. Reny replied that graduate students work on subjects -- like real models of business cycles -- that are at the frontier of the field; by contrast Keynes and Minsky are not on the frontier anymore. 
 Mr. Wray prefers to call such mathematical modeling ''the frontier of nonsense.'' For more than a decade Mr. Wray has asserted that both the theory and the models used by risk-rating agencies are wrong. He has been invited to speak at the University of Chicago, he said, but by social science graduate students, not by the economics department.
 When it comes to the financial crisis Dani Rodrick, an economist at Harvard, said, ''The problem wasn't with the economics but with the economists.'' Theories and models are tools, but ''we have fixated on one of the possible hundreds of models and elevated that above the others,'' he said, referring to free market theory. ''We form a narrative of the moment, which fits the zeitgeist.''
 For many the narrative that seemed to best explain the experiences of the 1970s, '80s and '90s, when the Soviet economy collapsed, and India and China became more market oriented was told by free market theorists.
 A real shift among economists will come only if there is a wholesale collapse, Mr. Wray and Mr. Card agreed. If unemployment is still high three years from now, then you might start to seea paradigm shift, Mr. Card said; economists will ''have to say that the market isn't supposed to work this way.'' But if the economy bounces back in a year, then they will be able to dismiss the financial crash as an anomaly that is unimportant to the larger theory, he added.
 A field shifts, Mr. Card and Mr. Wray said, not so much because the wise elders change their minds, (they are too invested in the way things are), but rather because a new generation of scholars comes along and pushes into new areas of research. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Maynard Keynes, left, advocated government intervention in the economy while Milton Friedman, right, disdained it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNIE SISTO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); MATHEMATICS (72%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (71%); HERD BEHAVIOR (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



208 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: For Swiss Banks, an Uncomfortable Spotlight

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

DATELINE: ZURICH 

 BODY:
Banking has long been to this tidy city what cars are to Detroit and computers to Silicon Valley, only more reliably. For while fortunes swung wildly in those places, quietly serving the world's wealthy made growth here as predictable as a fine Swiss watch.
 Until now.
 With Switzerland's biggest bank, UBS, staggering beneath a tax scandal that has undermined this country's vaunted banking secrecy -- as well as $53 billion in write-downs on American subprime securities -- not only is Switzerland's reputation for stability threatened but so is the industry that made it one of the world's wealthiest countries.
 ''There is a sense that this is a very, very dangerous situation because the banking sector has been crucial to Switzerland's well-being,'' said Charles Wyplosz, director of the International Center for Money and Banking Studies in Geneva. ''If it were to shrink, there is no doubt it would have serious consequences for our standard of living.'' 
 Stability will not return soon. Last week, UBS replaced its chief executive, Marcel Rohner, after only 20 months in the job, choosing the former leader of its archrival, Credit Suisse, Oswald Grubel, to take his place. Pressure is building on Peter Kurer, the chairman of UBS, to step down. In the close-knit world of Swiss banking, speculation is rife that Mr. Kurer, who served in top management roles during both the tax and subprime debacles, could be out within days.
 UBS said Wednesday that Mr. Kurer will not stand for re-election as chairman and that the board will nominate Kaspar Villiger, a former finance minister of Switzerland, to replace him. 
 Britain and the United States have spent hundreds of billions shoring up their banks, but Switzerland's resources are considerably more limited. At roughly $2 trillion, the balance sheet of UBS is four times as large as Switzerland's gross domestic product.
 Over all, Swiss bank assets equal 6.8 times gross domestic product, less worrisome than Ireland's 9.5 multiple, but still far more than in the United States, where commercial bank assets stand at 0.7 percent of G.D.P.
 What's more, this alpine wealth haven is set to get another blast of unwelcome attention Wednesday when a Senate panel examines how UBS helped American taxpayers evade the reach of the Internal Revenue Service.
 ''These abuses have been going on for much too long,'' said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who will lead the hearing and is sponsoring legislation that would crack down on offshore accounts.
 Last month, UBS paid a $780 million fine and turned over roughly 250 client names, avoiding a criminal indictment but igniting outrage in a country where bank secrecy -- or bank privacy, as the Swiss prefer to call it -- is practically an article of faith. 
 The numbered, virtually anonymous Swiss bank account is the stuff of movie legend and popular lore.
 But here it is a bread and butter issue -- Switzerland's financial services sector contributes 12.5 percent of the country's gross domestic product. That compares to 5 percent from financial services in the countries that use the euro and about 8.5 percent in the United States. 
 In Zurich, while politicians sputter about how Switzerland is being unfairly singled out and point fingers at British tax havens in the Caribbean and the Channel Islands, UBS executives have a more basic worry: client money is pouring out of the bank's coffers.
 In 2008, clients pulled 123 billion Swiss francs, or $105 billion, out of UBS's global wealth management business, equal to nearly 8 percent of assets under management. That outflow, along with the drop in value of investments like stocks and bonds in 2008, lowered UBS's total private assets under management to $1.4 trillion by the end of 2008, from nearly $2 trillion at the end of 2007.
 ''The main reason was bad publicity and the mistakes we made, not only in trading but in wealth management,'' said Mr. Grubel, the new chief executive. ''It created uncertainty and mistrust with clients and led to an outflow.''
 He admitted that restoring clients' confidence would not happen overnight. ''From my experience it takes up to 12 months for outflows to reverse,'' he said. 
 Referring to the United States tax case, Mr. Grubel added, ''We should never have gotten into it, and we should never do something like that in the future.''
 UBS shares closed at $8.35 in New York on Tuesday, down from a high of $35.36 last April. 
 For Switzerland over all, as for UBS, it has been an abrupt fall.
 From 2004 to 2007, the Swiss economy grew by nearly 3 percent annually, but in the final quarter of 2008, the economy shrank by 0.6 percent, according to data released Tuesday.
 That might not sound like much compared with the 6.2 percent contraction that hit the American economy during the same period, but the possibility of a steeper decline in 2009 is alarming to citizens long sheltered from issues like war and economic instability.
 ''A 2 or 3 percent contraction is quite exceptional for Switzerland,'' said Pirmin Bischof, a member of the Swiss Parliament from the center-right Christian Democratic party.
 Mr. Bischof, who studied at Harvard Law School and considers himself an admirer of the United States, said that for ordinary Swiss voters, the biggest issue after the economy was the fate of bank secrecy and Washington's effort to force UBS to hand over more names.
 ''It's a double standard,'' he said. ''What's going on now is very difficult to understand.''
 For UBS, the fallout from the tax case as well as the boardroom turmoil could not have come at a worse time. Just last fall, the Swiss National Bank agreed to buy $39.1 billion in so-called toxic assets, removing them from UBS's balance sheet and providing UBS with a $6 billion injection of cash.
 And by the beginning of 2009, it seemed as if things were beginning to stabilize, said Urs P. Roth, chief executive of the Swiss Bankers Association. ''It was in a turnaround and right at that moment, the Department of Justice decided to force UBS to deliver the information,'' Mr. Roth said.
 Over the long term, Mr. Roth said Switzerland would retain its position as a global wealth haven despite the pressure to provide more names to American authorities, and competition from even less regulated locales like the Cayman Islands and the Channel Islands.
 ''Bad cases are always a blow to reputations,'' he said. ''But we are quite confident that the reputation can be maintained and built up again.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about potential threats to the banking industry in Switzerland misstated, in some editions, the size of commercial bank assets in the United States relative to gross domestic product. It is 70 percent, not 0.7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TAX FRAUD (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SCANDALS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); INDICTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (56%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); ZURICH (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



209 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Economy Drives Agenda in China Congress

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Warning that China faces ''unprecedented difficulties and challenges,'' Prime Minister Wen Jiabao outlined a barrage of construction, increased subsidies and economic measures on Thursday aimed at continuing his nation's modernization despite a world financial crisis.
 He also indicated that China's leaders would seek to begin a fundamental shift in their economic strategy by encouraging citizens to spend and consume more goods, as in most Western economies. China's startling growth has been driven so far by exports and abundant spending on roads, dams and other infrastructure projects, a trend that experts say cannot be sustained in the long term. 
 But in a long speech to the National People's Congress, China's legislature, he did not explicitly announce any new spending to combat the financial crisis beyond the $585 billion China committed to spend in November.
 Mr. Wen's speech, which cited numerous budget increases for construction and other programs, left it unclear whether those figures were part of the already-announced stimulus program or represented entirely new spending. Details of the stimulus package have remained vague since its unveiling, and Thursday's speech shed little light on them.
 China's stock market rose about 6 percent on Wednesday, and other global markets also advanced, on speculation that Mr. Wen would announce more economic stimulus spending.
 Instead, he said that while 2009 would be a year of ''arduous tasks,'' China's economic strategy was sound and the nation's fundamentally positive outlook was unchanged.
 His address to the legislature's 3,000 delegates, which was similar to an American State of the Union speech, laid out an economic program that analysts here say was dominated by two concerns: riding out the global downturn and keeping citizens' unhappiness with their lot from boiling over into public unrest. 
 ''Social stability is definitely of concern to the government; it's always been the top concern,'' Tao Wang, a Beijing-based economist for UBS Securities, said in an e-mail message. ''Everything from delivering growth to holding down unemployment, it's all about stability.''
 Ms. Wang said that the stimulus program announced in November, which focuses mostly on major construction projects, was a good way to combat China's flagging economy quickly. But social investments of the kind Mr. Wen announced on Thursday, she said, are equally important for China's economic health.
 In his address, Mr. Wen set a target of 8 percent growth in China's gross domestic product in 2009, the same as in previous years. The government has long said that this rate is needed to hold down unemployment and the potential for unrest. The economy expanded 9 percent last year, even after growth slowed sharply in the last quarter. 
 But a number of economic experts believe that 6.5 or 7 percent growth, meager by recent Chinese standards, is increasingly likely. 
 Mr. Wen said that the central government would significantly increase spending on schools, hospitals and clinics, low-income housing, environmental programs and other projects aimed at improving people's lives. 
 He also reaffirmed plans to raise subsidies to farmers, old-age pensions and income grants to China's poorest citizens, and said spending on ''social safety net'' programs would jump 17.6 percent, or about $6.4 billion.
 But he reserved some of his strongest words for the Chinese consumer, whose legendary frugality has kept China's consumer goods and services industries from growing at anywhere near the rate of the national economy. Mr. Wen said bolstering consumer demand must become ''a long-term strategic principle and a basic point of departure for stimulating economic growth.''
 Persuading Chinese consumers to abandon longstanding savings habits may be difficult. Official documents released on Thursday indicated that the government planned to increase consumer loans, reduce some V.A.T. and income taxes, cultivate markets for new and used homes and cars, and subsidize the purchase by rural residents of consumer appliances, like water heaters and air conditioners. 
 Spending on an array of major programs, including highway and railroad building, low-income housing and energy conservation, would more than double, to about $132 billion.
 Such spending and tax cuts, and a general reduction in tax revenues because of a slowing economy, will push this year's budget deficit to about 3 percent of G.D.P., a modern record.
 China's parliamentary session is generally dominated by the pro forma passage of laws and regulations decided well in advance. The delegates, the handpicked cream of the Communist Party establishment, have little taste for revolt. They gathered in the Great Hall of the People, on Tiananmen Square, for Mr. Wen's overview of domestic and foreign policy goals. Much of the rest of the session is to be spent giving those goals ritual approval.
 In advance of Mr. Wen's address, officials announced Wednesday that they would raise military spending by 15 percent this year, continuing a long streak of double-digit jumps that has alarmed the United States. The rate is slightly lower than in the past few years, however.
 The government is eager to use the session to present a united and confident front to a public battered by rising unemployment and falling incomes. Officials estimated a month ago that 20 million of the nation's 130 million migrant workers -- the cheap-labor force that powered much of China's construction and export booms -- had lost their jobs. 
 A signal goal of China's stimulus program is to ensure that the idle jobless do not become an engine of social unrest. 
 Experts will be watching Mr. Wen's proposals closely to see not only how the proposed $585 billion (or 4 trillion yuan) stimulus will be spent, but how much is genuinely new spending. China's central government is allotting only about $175 billion of the total; the rest is supposed to come from banks, investors and local governments, whose finances are especially opaque. 
 Most of the money is set to go to infrastructure projects, like roads and dams, that pump money quickly into the economy. But many outside experts and some party figures are calling for more money to be spent directly on people's basic needs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); TRENDS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



210 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: UBS Executives May Face Prosecution in Tax Evasion Inquiry

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING; Bernie Becker contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
UBS came under blistering attack on Wednesday from officials and lawmakers amid a growing outcry over Swiss banking secrecy practices that Washington says allow rampant tax evasion.
 In testimony before a Senate subcommittee, a top Justice Department official said the agency might prosecute senior UBS executives as part of its investigation into whether the Swiss bank helped scores of wealthy Americans evade billions of dollars in taxes. 
 John DiCicco, the acting assistant attorney general for the Justice Department's tax division, told the panel that he was ''not going to rule out one way or the other whether there will be prosecutions. Certainly the executives in UBS knew what was going on.'' 
 Switzerland has provided $60 billion in aid to UBS -- a bulwark of the national economy -- to bolster it against huge subprime losses. The Swiss government, which refused to send a representative to the hearing, is resisting a push by the Internal Revenue Service to force UBS to disclose the names of clients behind 52,000 accounts involving illegal tax shelters. Mr. DiCicco said the clients could include corporations as well as individuals.
 A senior UBS executive, Mark Branson, apologized for the bank's actions, saying that ''this is a very small part of our business where things went badly wrong.'' But he raised hackles by faulting the I.R.S. for the disclosure effort and saying the issue was more suited to diplomatic negotiations than to review by prosecutors and tax authorities. 
 Mr. DiCicco countered that the dispute was between the American government and UBS, and that Washington was ''not going head to head with the Swiss government.''
 Mr. Branson, the chief financial officer of the Zurich bank's Wealth Management and Swiss Bank division, also subtly criticized American efforts to crack down on offshore tax evasion, saying they effectively interfered with traditional Swiss banking practices. 
 Senator Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan who led the hearing as chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, responded testily, calling Switzerland ''one of the most vocal supporters of bank secrecy in the world.'' 
 Senator Levin added that such secrecy ''is not a value to be protected. It is part and parcel of a conspiracy to commit a crime under our law.''
 Unlike in the United States, tax evasion is legal in Switzerland, the world's largest offshore haven. Switzerland does not extradite people for tax-related crimes.
 Less than two weeks ago, UBS, the world's largest private bank, averted indictment by agreeing to pay $780 million to settle claims that it had defrauded the I.R.S. Prosecutors suspect that UBS helped at least 17,000 clients evade taxes on $20 billion stashed overseas, in part through sham offshore entities.
 Mr. Branson said UBS had shut down 14,000 American offshore investment accounts but that it would not close cash-only deposit accounts for Americans living abroad or have them file disclosures. He also said that 47,000 clients had failed to file special tax forms known as W-9s with the bank, which is supposed to require them to do so. 
 Mr. Levin cited an internal 2006 UBS e-mail message titled ''U.S. International Training -- Lessons Learned'' as evidence of how UBS sought to hide clients from the I.R.S.
 ''In the case of interrogation by any authorities, protect the banking secrecy,'' the memo read.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John DiCicco, a top federal tax official, left, and Mark Branson, a UBS executive, center rear, at a Senate hearing on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CONSPIRACY (78%); EXTRADITION (77%); PRIVATE BANKING (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



211 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Charities Say Government Is Ignoring Them in Crisis

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Like many for-profit companies, charities are seeking help from the government, and they are upset that policy makers do not understand how much the recession has hurt them.
 Last week, nonprofit leaders representing thousands of organizations across the country signed on to a manifesto that calls on political leaders to support the work of nonprofits.
 ''One of the messages of this declaration is that the partnership between us and the government isn't working, and that's not good for the country,'' said Lester M. Salamon, director of the Center for Civil Society Studies at Johns Hopkins University and author of the manifesto, titled ''Forward Together: Empowering America's Citizen Sector for the Change We Need.'' 
 President Obama's budget proposal came as a slap in the face to many nonprofits, which had thought they had a friend in him because of his early work as a community organizer.
 The administration has also asked nonprofit leaders to serve on advisory panels and called on Americans to do volunteer work.
 While the Independent Sector, a nonprofit trade association in Washington, has proposed increasing tax deductions for donations to nonprofits, the Obama budget calls for limiting such deductions for the most wealthy. 
 Diana Aviv, chief executive of the organization, has been making the rounds on Capitol Hill and at the White House, pushing ideas that would buoy nonprofits, including a bridge-loan fund to help strapped charities and eliminating the excise tax that foundations pay on their investment income so they will have more money to give away. 
 ''We heard from lots of staff people on the Hill that some of them were getting tired of nonprofit organizations coming to them with their hands out when they were working on the stimulus package,'' Ms. Aviv said. ''They felt it was unseemly -- now, how are we supposed to respond to that?''
 In a blog post, Peter R. Orszag, director of the Office of Management and Budget, defended the proposal to limit the tax break for charitable donations by the rich, noting that it would not take effect until 2011, presumably after the economic crisis has passed. He also said it was a matter of fairness.
 ''If you're a teacher making $50,000 a year and decide to donate $1,000 to the Red Cross or United Way, you enjoy a tax break of $150,'' Mr. Orszag wrote. ''If you are Warren Buffett or Bill Gates and you make that same donation, you get a $350 deduction, more than twice the teacher.'' 
 (Actually, Mr. Buffett's overall tax rate was somewhere around 17 percent, according to his testimony before Congress, and thus his deduction would be less than the teacher's. Mr. Gates has not disclosed his tax rate.)
 Many of the organizations that provide the services most in demand rely heavily on government financing through community block grants, Medicaid and many other federally financed, state-administered programs. 
 But these days, states are taking longer to reimburse nonprofit groups for the services they provide under contract. At the same time, banks are reducing access to or withdrawing lines of credit, and donations.
 Some portion of the money allocated for increased Medicaid spending and community block grants in the economic stimulus package will flow to nonprofits, but so far, Congress appears unmoved by the various suggestions nonprofit groups themselves are making. 
 The Center for Civil Society Studies at Johns Hopkins, for instance, pulled together a list of some $10.6 billion in ''shovel ready'' projects at nonprofit organizations, items as varied as a youth center in San Antonio and a theater in New Hampshire.
 The White House supported the Independent Sector's concept of a nonprofit bridge-loan fund, nonprofit leaders said, but the House Appropriations Committee rejected the idea.
 A spokeswoman for the committee did not return a call seeking comment. 
 Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, introduced an amendment to the stimulus bill that would have allowed charities to reimburse their volunteers at a higher rate for mileage, and Mr. Grassley proposed requiring states to pay nonprofits what they owed them before receiving any additional money through the bill. Those provisions, however, were dropped.
 Peter Goldberg, chief executive of the Alliance for Children and Families, an association for nonprofit social service providers, said a large part of the problem was that while organizations have morphed into government contractors, more akin to highway construction companies and military contractors, Congress and the public continue to think of them as charities supported by private donations and volunteers.
 ''The government needs to understand that, for better or worse, it has bought a substantial chunk of the nonprofit, human-services delivery system through its contracts,'' Mr. Goldberg said. ''It therefore has a vested interest in making sure the system functions, particularly at a time like this.''
 Not everyone in the nonprofit sector, however, agrees that government needs to do more. 
 Pablo Eisenberg, a scholar at Georgetown University who is normally a champion of nonprofit groups, said he would not sign on to the ''Forward Together'' document because he believes wealthy foundations should be doing more to support those groups.
 ''Nonprofits need to first look to their own community to help them out before asking the government to pitch in,'' Mr. Eisenberg said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about complaints by charities that they are not receiving enough help from the federal government referred incorrectly to the tax rate on which Warren Buffett, the Omaha billionaire, takes deductions for charitable gifts. It is 35 percent -- not 17 percent, which is his overall tax rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); WRITERS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); EXCISE TAX (66%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); INDEPENDENT SECTOR (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); BILL GATES (50%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



212 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Out of Work? Read a Recession Blog. Or, Better Yet, Write One.

BYLINE: By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
In happier times, the Above the Law blog, which bills itself as a ''legal tabloid,'' riffed about Jerry Springer speaking at Northwestern University Law School's commencement and Clarence Thomas's love of Egg McMuffins. These days, it is a hot spot for rumors and real-time reports on big-firm layoffs -- and features, such as an out-of-work lawyer's ''Notes From the Breadline.''
 We are in the worst economic downturn of the Internet age, and bloggers are making the most of it. Because of the diversity of voices, their ability to cover niche subjects and the infinite capacity of the Web for words, blogs have been able to take on the recession from every conceivable angle -- straight-up reporting, economic analysis, advice for the unemployed and more than a few servings of paranoia. 
 The Great Depression of the 1930s was documented with black-and-white photographs of migrant workers and film reels of bread lines. In this economic crisis, the iconic media coverage could be the furious postings occurring in the blogosphere. 
 There are blogs starting up that aim to be one-stop sites for information -- like recessionwire.com, founded by two downsized Conde Nast Portfolio editors. Its subjects range from a just-laid-off checklist -- practical advice on what to do in the first hours, days and weeks after losing a job -- to getting by with subsistence gardening.
 Blogging economists are offering the sort of analysis once available only in specialized publications or graduate school seminars. Baselinescenario.com, whose writers include a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund, drills down on issues like the A.I.G. bailout. Greg Mankiw, an economics professor at Harvard, writes a conservative blog heavy on theory. (A recent entry: ''Team Obama on the Unit Root Hypothesis.'')
 Thrifty-living blogs have been around for awhile, but the recession is bringing in new readers and making the advice at least seem a little more mainstream. With the Dow below 7,000 right now, there may be a growing audience for WiseBread's ''Cornmeal: Fresh Ideas for a Frugal Family Staple'' and its tips on removing car dents with a cigarette lighter, aluminum foil and an air duster.
 There are a growing number of blogs created to be online communities for the recession's victims. The 405 Club -- named for New York's maximum unemployment benefit of $405 a week -- calls itself a place for the jobless to share ''tips and tricks to navigate this tough environment.'' (One hot tip: make your own cheap breakfast burritos in bulk.)
 Pink Slips Are the New Black, a blog ''for unemployed people by unemployed people,'' is edgier. ''I can't even afford my COBRA payments,'' a recent post on government bailouts wailed, ''and these morons are getting boatloads of taxpayer money.''
 The recession is creating new blogger personalities. Clara Cannucciari, a 93-year-old great-grandmother who quit high school and went to work in a Twinkie factory in 1935, has become a YouTube star with videos on how to prepare food that was popular during the Depression -- like the ''Poorman's meal,'' a low-cost mix of potatoes, onions and hot dogs. She blogs at greatdepressioncooking.com. 
 And there are plenty of first-person accounts of unemployment, from ''Laid Off in NYC: 23, female and officially on unemployment'' to Rachel, the self-described ''San Francisco Girl'' who writes the entertaining Tales From the Recently Laid Off.
 There's even recession humor. Check out The Brokers With Hands on Their Faces blog, or the 405 Club's online store, which features coffee mugs reading ''Starbucks got too expensive,'' and T-shirts that brand the wearer a ''friend without benefits.''
 The blogosphere makes it possible to have a sprawling national conversation about the hard times -- often among people who would never find each other offline. Jim Rawles, who calls himself a guns-and-groceries survivalist, says traffic to his survivalblog.com has tripled in the last 14 months. 
 Mr. Rawles doesn't concern himself with resume-writing tips. He's planning for ''the golden horde,'' the flood of people he believes will flee the cities if there is a full-scale socioeconomic collapse. Survivalblog has all kinds of advice for getting by, and it has ads touting products like body armor and canned butter. 
 But Mr. Rawles insists that surviving the crisis really boils down to having two essentials: a personal water filtration system and a three-year food supply.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); WRITERS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); MIGRANT WORKERS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (72%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



213 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Mayor and Health Chief Report Success in Improving Health of New Yorkers

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
The New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene gave itself a checkup and the prognosis was relentlessly upbeat.
 There are fewer smokers now than in 2002, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his health commissioner took office, and during their tenure there have been fewer deaths from H.I.V., alcohol and drugs and less lead poisoning among children. At the same time, more New Yorkers report that they have the same doctor whom they see regularly. Colonoscopy screenings were also up significantly. 
 Mostly missing from the annual health report card issued on Wednesday, however, was mention of negative indicators, like childhood obesity, which is growing (though officials did note a slight decrease in regular mammograms and flu shots for the elderly). 
 ''New York City is healthier than ever,'' Mayor Bloomberg declared at a news conference at Maimonides Cancer Center in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. ''If that isn't the purpose of government, I don't know what is the purpose of government.''
 Asked about obesity, which the report card did not address, Mayor Bloomberg acknowledged that it was ''probably the only public health issue that is getting worse'' and called it ''a killer.'' He said the city had tried to combat the growing problem with fitness programs in parks, a dietician overseeing school lunches, produce peddlers on the streets and calorie counts in chain restaurants. But, in the most heated comment of the day, he said: ''We can give you the information, we can tell you what you should be doing. But in the end, if you want to live longer, if you want your children to be healthier, you have to take self-responsibility.
 ''Government is not going to force you to not eat something or to not do something that is detrimental to your health. You have the freedom to destroy yourself if you want.''
 With Mr. Bloomberg at the news conference was the city's health commissioner, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, who has been frequently mentioned as a candidate to head the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 Asked about that job on Wednesday, Dr. Frieden would say only, ''I love my job and I'm looking forward to helping Mayor Bloomberg make New York City an even healthier place for years to come.''
 An epidemiologist who used to work at the federal centers, Dr. Frieden has made the encouragement of lifestyle changes a bedrock of his public health policy in New York, arguing that it is more powerful to focus on preventing chronic diseases, like high blood pressure and lung cancer.
 Dr. Frieden said in the progress report that some of the indicators, like 300,000 people quitting smoking since 2002, were directly related to his lifestyle campaigns. The city instituted a series of, as the report put it, ''graphic'' antismoking campaigns, which featured scary subway advertisements of a man with his larynx removed because of throat cancer, and a woman whose fingers had been amputated because of narrowed arteries.
 The mayor gave some of the credit to the city's public hospital system, the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation. Alan D. Aviles, president of the system, said it had helped 40,000 New Yorkers kick the smoking habit, and tripled its rate of colon cancer screening. He said that 80 percent of mothers who gave birth within the city system breast-fed their babies.
 But the report card also points out that higher income and higher education are correlated with better health, and Dr. Frieden's tenure thus far has coincided with booming economic times in the city. Dr. Frieden on Wednesday warned that the recession might change the picture, saying ''stresses on the health care system will be even greater.''
 The report card, issued annually, covers the period since 2002, during which, according to the health department, 364,000 more New Yorkers reported having a primary doctor (for a total of 4.8 million), and 300,000 quit smoking, bringing the percentage of city residents who smoke to 16.9 percent from 21.5 percent. H.I.V. and AIDS-related deaths dropped to 1,115 in 2007 from 1,713 five years before. In 2006 there were 1,408 deaths from alcohol-related causes, 143 fewer than in 2002, and in 2007 there were 832 drug-related deaths, 73 fewer than in 2002. 
 The number of New Yorkers over 50 who had received colonoscopies during the previous 10 years rose to 62 percent in 2007 from 42 percent in 2003, and there were 319 fewer children identified with lead poisoning in 2006 than in 2002. There were also reductions in the infant-mortality rate and in the number of women killed by their intimate partners.
 The 21-page report also highlighted more obscure achievements, like the department's campaign to remove more than 2,000 units of lead-contaminated kohl, kajal and surma eye makeup from stores in South Asian neighborhoods.
 But while there were baseline 2002 figures for some indicators such as adults with well-controlled hypertension or adults being treated for depression, Dr. Frieden said that updated numbers were not available because the survey had been too expensive to repeat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); SMOKING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CANCER (89%); OBESITY (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); POISONINGS (77%); COLORECTAL CANCER (76%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (76%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (75%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (75%); LUNG CANCER (75%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (74%); LEAD POISONING (73%); SMOKING CESSATION (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ENDOSCOPY (71%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (70%); LEAD (56%); INFLUENZA (54%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



214 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Cure 'G.M. Hangover'

BYLINE: By MARY M. CHAPMAN; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: ANDERSON, Ind. 

 BODY:
This city, about 50 miles northeast of Indianapolis, has long been saddled with dubious distinctions. 
 It is the home, for example, of two dozen former General Motors factories and thousands of retired auto workers who are still dependent on G.M. for health care and pensions. It once ranked right behind Flint, Mich., as the city with the largest concentration of G.M. operations, and it fell just as hard as the car company faltered.
 But on Monday, Anderson enjoyed some rare bragging rights. A global company, Nestle, opened a new Coffee-Mate and Nesquik plant here and announced plans to expand to more than a million square feet. Its total investment, $529 million, is creating hundreds of new jobs. 
 Michael J. Hicks, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., said the new plant was part of Anderson's effort to recover from ''the G.M. hangover'' -- an affliction that more cities will face as G.M. continues to shut plants. 
 ''What we have experienced is a lot of jobs lost in an industry that, even when the plants were here, was subject to boom and bust,'' he said. ''Anderson is trying to replace that highly cyclical industry.''
 That is happening, slowly, through some big announcements like Nestle's plant, but mostly through the addition of small businesses. New chain restaurants dot Scatterfield Road, once clogged with traffic from the G.M. plants that made parts like electronic components and lighting systems.
 A Starbucks has gone up in the city's commercial district, as have restaurants like Montana Mike's Steakhouse and Real Hacienda. A Holiday Inn Express is to open this spring.
 Mark Harrison, a car dealer, is betting on Anderson's rebound. Although sales are down, as they are nationwide, he will spend $8 million this year to renovate his Toyota and Chevrolet dealerships.
 ''Anderson has rails, interstate and low taxes, and a community of willing workers, now that G.M. is gone,'' he said. ''We're making an investment in a town that's hit bottom and we feel like is coming back.''
 While Anderson's population dwindled to less than 58,000 in 2007, from 70,000 in 1970, Indianapolis grew to more than 795,000 in 2007 from nearly 739,000 residents just eight years earlier.
 ''We're hoping we can get some spillover from the growth of Indianapolis, some suburban sprawl,'' said Mr. Hicks.
 The longstanding ties to G.M. are beginning to weaken, as G.M. no longer pays full health care benefits for its white-collar retirees.
 Sipping coffee at a Panera Bread cafe, a longtime Anderson resident, Dan Ferree, 77, said he was optimistic about his city's future. 
 ''Change is good,'' said Mr. Ferree, who made vehicle starters when he was in his 20s at a G.M. plant before buying his parents' flower shop.
 The most welcome sign of change is the Nestle plant, where hourly wages range from $16.50 to $24, with full benefits.
 A few miles away is Hoosier Park, a racetrack that added casino games last summer. The city is counting on Hoosier Park's 1,900 slot machines and 16 electronic table games to attract regional tourist dollars. 
 The gambling complex created 800 new jobs, half of them filled by Anderson residents, according to the park's general manager, Jim Brown.
 And the Flagship Enterprise Center, a partnership between Anderson University and the city intended to incubate and support small businesses, says it has helped create 1,200 jobs and start 55 companies locally since 2005.
 Some of the companies are using former G.M. factories, so numerous that they were known by numbers, not names.
 Advanced Magnesium Alloys Corporation, a magnesium recycling operation, now occupies G.M.'s former Plant 19. A 260,000-square-foot factory, it had been mothballed for five years when Jan A. Guy, a local entrepreneur, bought it in 2001. The company has 26 employees, and they earn an average of $14.50 an hour and benefits.
 Another small business, Hy-Tech Machinery, recently bought G.M.'s former Plant No. 18. It designs, builds and repairs industrial machinery.
 ''But when you lose 23,000 G.M. jobs, replacing those is a long process,'' said Charles Staley, chief executive of the enterprise center. ''This had been a one-store town.''
 As recently as 1999, G.M.'s plants accounted for $10.5 billion in wages, $43.5 billion in industrial output, and $156 million in tax revenue for Anderson and the surrounding Madison County, said Mr. Staley.
 With 1,600 employees, St. John's Medical Center is now Anderson's largest employer. Up to 20 percent of its patients are affiliated with G.M.
 But since January, G.M. retirees age 65 and older no longer receive the same generous health care benefits as their hourly counterparts. 
 Most retirees now must buy private insurance to supplement the gaps in their traditional Medicare coverage. G.M. gives the retirees $300 a month, which counts as taxable income, to defray the cost.
 ''Anderson is full of retirees who will lose a lot of spending power,'' said Mr. Hicks, of Ball State.
 But at least some in Anderson are gaining spending power with the addition of Nestle. 
 It had been a long time since a chief executive said of Anderson, as Nestle's Paul Bulcke did Monday, ''I'm proud to be associated with this town and its people, who have excellent skills.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nestle's new plant in Anderson, Ind., was welcome: the town has two dozen former G.M. factories and a ready work force, as well as many G.M. retirees, like Jesse Lollar, 86, who has owned only G.M. cars. Meridian Street shows signs of a recovery, like the renovated Paramount theater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
The Wizard of Oz slot machines at the Hoosier Park racetrack, which now has 1,900 slots. The manager of the park says it created 800 jobs, half of them filled by Anderson residents.
G.M. is a constant presence in Anderson, not only because of vacant sites like this G.M. administration building on Scatterfield Road but also because of pension checks and health care bills.
 Anderson is home to two dozen former G.M. factories and a work force accustomed to auto industry wages and benefits, as well as thousands of retired workers still dependent on G.M. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) MAP: One analyst said Anderson could tap ''suburban sprawl.'' (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); FOOD MFG (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); CITIES (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); SUBURBS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: PANERA BREAD CO (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NESTLE SA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: PNRA (NASDAQ) (82%); GM (NYSE) (58%); NESN (SWX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (82%); NAICS445291 BAKED GOODS STORES (82%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%); FLINT, MI, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



215 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1905 words

HEADLINE: Another Karzai Forges Afghan Business Empire

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN; Barclay Walsh contributed research from Washington.

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Eight years ago, Mahmoud Karzai was running a handful of modest restaurants in San Francisco, Boston and Baltimore. Today, Mr. Karzai, an immigrant waiter-turned-restaurant owner, is one of Afghanistan's most prosperous businessmen.
 The older brother of Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president, Mahmoud Karzai has major interests in the country's only cement factory, its dominant bank, its most ambitious real estate development, its only Toyota distributorship and four coal mines.
 He and a business partner run Afghanistan's national Chamber of Commerce -- which has far more clout than its American counterpart -- allowing him to broker deals and lure foreign investors. For executives with problems with the Afghan government, he is the man to see. One prominent Afghan critic describes him as a ''minister maker'' with sway in hiring and firing top officials. 
 An unabashed advocate for money-making in the country his brother runs, Mr. Karzai attributes his success to having big ambitions and taking on ventures that others saw as too risky. ''I'm investing in projects that require real work,'' he said in an interview. ''I'm in love with the idea that Afghanistan can become a Singapore, a Hong Kong.'' 
 Mr. Karzai, though, clearly has exploited his connections, both in Washington and Kabul, to build his business empire. He has collected millions in American government loans for real estate developments in Kandahar and Kabul, capitalized on a friendship with Jack Kemp, the former Republican congressman, for introductions to American officials and international business executives, and benefited from what his rivals charge were sweetheart deals with the Afghan government.
 Mr. Karzai's swift rise has stirred resentment and suspicion among many Afghans, who have grown disaffected with the Karzai government and its seeming tolerance for insider dealing, favor trading, bribe taking and other unsavory activities. Rampant corruption fuels the Taliban insurgency, experts warn, and threatens American support for President Karzai, who is seeking re-election this year.
 While Mahmoud Karzai has not been accused of any criminal wrongdoing, he has become a political liability, with critics complaining that his ascent was unfairly eased. 
 ''If his brother wasn't the president, would he have generated this much wealth, and gotten into this many deals?'' asked Daoud Sultanzoy, a member of Parliament who has pushed for investigations into the Karzai family's business activities. ''One of the reasons the people don't trust the government is because people in power have abused their power for personal gain.''
 Humayun Hamidzada, President Karzai's spokesman, denied that the president had shown favoritism to his brother. ''The president does not allow anyone to use his name to get contracts or deals through him,'' he said. 
 Mahmoud Karzai similarly dismissed complaints that he had traded on his family ties. ''There is a great amount of jealousy and misinformation about me,'' he said in an interview. ''All the criticism that I'm getting insider deals because of my brother is flat-out wrong and lies.'' 
 President Karzai has privately complained that Mahmoud Karzai's business dealings are politically embarrassing, people who know him say, but he has not tried to rein in Mahmoud or his other siblings. 
 One brother, Qayum Karzai, who owns an Afghan restaurant in Baltimore, served until recently in the Afghan Parliament, though other members groused that he almost never showed up. He said in an interview that he is now an informal intermediary among President Karzai, Saudi Arabia and the Taliban.
 Another brother, Ahmed Wali Karzai, the head of the Kandahar provincial council, has been accused of narcotics trafficking by Afghan and American officials, who are frustrated that the president has not taken action against him.
 ''President Karzai was seen initially as an honest man, but we don't have a history of allowing the brothers of a leader to accumulate so much wealth,'' said Saad Mohseni, the owner of an independent television station in Kabul. ''His brothers are not allowing the president to think objectively about what is best for Afghanistan.''
 An Eye for Opportunities
 Mahmoud Karzai, an American citizen, kept his Maryland home, but travels back and forth to Kabul from a multimillion-dollar retreat in Dubai owned by his business partner. Back in his homeland, Mr. Karzai, 54, talks easily in Pashto to Kandahari businessmen in native dress and in fluent English to Westerners in suits. Politicians and business figures trade rumors and share gossip about him.. He says he is always looking for opportunities, while rivals fume that he has crowded them out or tries to get in on their deals. 
 ''People in business would come to me and complain that Mahmoud always wanted a percentage of the new businesses,'' recalled Zalmay Khalilzad, a former United States ambassador to Afghanistan. When he asked Mr. Karzai about such claims, he denied them, Mr. Khalilzad said in an interview.
 Mr. Karzai said in the interview that he had chosen business projects that he said he believed would benefit Afghanistan. He insists that he has not gotten rich here because he has taken on so many liabilities. Though they provide no proof, many Afghan business and political figures describe him as one of their country's wealthiest men.
 To his critics, Mr. Karzai offers an unusual defense: Even if he wanted to, he could not use an insider's advantage because his brother is ineffectual. 
 ''He will never make a decision,'' Mr. Karzai said of the president. ''He will only talk politics. If you talk about the economy, he is not interested. He is not a problem solver.''
 Mr. Karzai railed against government corruption and complained that his brother's mismanagement of the economy made it difficult to make money. He said he had acted as a conduit for the business community because the bureaucracy was not responsive. 
 ''People are looking for a channel of communications, so they say, 'This guy is the president's brother, he probably talks to his brother,' '' Mr. Karzai said. ''They get frustrated, and so they say, 'Let's go to the top.' ''
 Other business and political leaders scoff at his criticisms of the president, saying they are intended to disguise the tight ties between the brothers. 
 It is ''100 percent an act,'' said Gen. Hadi Khalid, who said he was fired from a top Interior Ministry post last year for opposing a deal involving Mahmoud Karzai's business partner, Sher Khan Farnood.
 American Support
 Mr. Karzai moved quickly after the 2001 American-led invasion of Afghanistan to stake his claim in the postwar economy. In Maryland, he began brainstorming with other Afghan-American businessmen about how best to help restart the Afghan economy, just as the Bush administration was beginning to provide aid, business leaders said. He soon led a small group that set up a new Afghan Chamber of Commerce, winning $6 million from the United States Agency for International Development. 
 In an election last year, financed with more than $500,000 from the American aid agency, Mr. Karzai was chosen as the chamber's vice chairman, and Mr. Farnood became chairman. Opponents charged that the voting was rigged to ensure that the two men came out on top, assertions that Mr. Karzai denies. 
 Mr. Karzai got other help from Washington, thanks to prominent friends. He made a point after the Sept. 11 attacks of getting to know conservative Republicans, including Mr. Kemp. In an interview, Mr. Kemp said he introduced Mr. Karzai to officials at the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a federal agency that provides financing to American businesses abroad.
 Mr. Kemp said he wanted to encourage investment in Afghanistan, adding that he had not benefited from Mr. Karzai's deals. ''I imagine he has dropped my name around Kabul and Kandahar, but I can assure you I have no equity or interest in his businesses,'' he said. 
 According to OPIC officials, two companies tied to Mr. Karzai got loans of more than $5 million to finance his Kandahar real estate development and a large apartment complex in Kabul. 
 The Kandahar venture, an ambitious plan to build a residential community that Mr. Karzai named Aynomina (''a place to live'') -- quickly stirred an outcry. The 10,000-acre property in the city of Kandahar was owned by the Afghan Army, but Kandahar officials turned it over to Mr. Karzai virtually free. 
 Mr. Karzai said the city officials wanted him to take the land so powerful warlords could not seize it. The Kandahar governor, he said, agreed that his government would be paid for each lot only when Mr. Karzai's development firm sold a home built on it. 
 But no deal was worked out with the army. In 2005, Afghan troops stormed the construction site, shooting wildly. Brig. Gen. Shahtory Habibullah, who oversees properties for the Ministry of Defense, said Mr. Karzai's company had never paid the army anything. The dispute still simmers.
 ''The land mafia has taken my land,'' the general said in an interview. ''When I go to the property, I cry for it.''
 Mr. Karzai said he had built more than 200 homes, with 60 or so under construction, that had proved popular with the emerging Afghan middle class. ''We have three-bedroom models selling for $20,000, '' he said. ''That house -- we cannot keep up with.'' 
 A Big Cash Deal
 Mr. Karzai took on his biggest venture when he and other investors assumed control of Afghanistan's only cement factory. Operating rights for the plant were put up for auction by the Ministry of Mines, and Mr. Karzai and his partners won when they were the only bidders to show up with $25 million in cash. Mr. Karzai said the auction rules required that. But Mr. Sultanzoy, the member of Parliament, charges that the cash requirement was a last-minute provision devised to benefit Mr. Karzai.
 ''They brought the cash and put it on a table in front of the minister and then took it away,'' Mr. Sultanzoy said. 
 The group did not have to make an up-front payment. Instead, it pays rent and shares royalties with the government, Mr. Karzai said. 
 He has had access to the financing required for his projects through the Kabul Bank, the largest commercial bank in Afghanistan, where he sits on the board. Mr. Farnood, the bank's founder, helped Mr. Karzai become an investor by issuing him a loan to buy shares in the bank, Mr. Karzai said.
 He is also the majority owner of the only Toyota distributorship for Afghanistan, thanks in part to Mr. Kemp, who has served on Toyota's United States diversity advisory board and introduced Mr. Karzai to the automaker's executives. 
 Mr. Khalilzad, who denied speculation that he planned to challenge President Karzai in the coming election, recalled that the president once confided that he was angry about the Toyota deal and wondered aloud whether he should try to block it. He said he believed that the president spoke to the Japanese ambassador on the issue, but to no avail.
 Ashraf Ghani, a former Afghan finance minister who has been considering running for president this year, said that when President Karzai asked him to join his government, he was concerned about the potential for insider dealing by the Karzai family. 
 ''Is this going to be a family enterprise?'' Mr. Ghani recalled asking. ''He said absolutely not. But that is what it has become.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mahmoud Karzai, right, with a model of an apartment project in Kabul, has cultivated ties that have helped his ventures grow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
DIVERSE INTERESTS: Mahmoud Karzai has invested in an apartment complex in Kabul, above, a cement factory, mines and a Toyota distributorship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BROTHERS KARZAI: The brothers include Ahmed Wali, accused of drug ties, and Hamid, now president, standing left and right center. Qayum, an ex-lawmaker, and Mahmoud, front at right, flank their father.
VENTURES: The Parliament building in Kabul, left, is owned by the Chamber of Commerce where Mahmoud Karzai is vice chairman. In the United States, he has owned restaurants, including one in Cambridge, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAFAELA PERSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TALIBAN (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CEMENT MFG (71%); CORRUPTION (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); BRIBERY (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); COAL MINING (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



216 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Brown Urges Bold Effort To Shape An Expansion

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain urged American leaders on Wednesday to ''seize the moment,'' in tandem with their European allies, to confront the global economic crisis and prepare for a future that brings ''the biggest expansion of middle-class incomes and jobs the world has ever seen.'' 
 Speaking to a joint session of Congress, Mr. Brown called for a clear rejection of protectionist tendencies as the world struggles to recover.
 The address came a day after President Obama assured Mr. Brown that the ''special relationship'' between the countries was as strong as ever, despite what some people have described as coolness in the handling of the prime minister's visit. 
 Lawmakers gave the prime minister a warm welcome, interrupting his 45-minute speech at least a dozen times with standing ovations. One of those came after he announced that Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has brain cancer, had been granted an honorary knighthood. 
 Echoing a point that Mr. Obama has begun to make, Mr. Brown argued that a big part of the solution to the financial crisis lay in having confidence that it could be solved. He called for concerted global work to stimulate national economies, bolster banks and improve their oversight, along with efforts to help developing countries endure the downturn.
 ''While today people are anxious and feel insecure, over the next two decades our world economy will double in size,'' Mr. Brown said. ''Twice as many opportunities for business, twice as much prosperity and the biggest expansion of middle-class incomes and jobs the world has ever seen.''
 He said that the United States would find a rare receptiveness to its efforts to move forward. ''Let me say that you now have the most pro-American European leadership in living memory,'' Mr. Brown said. 
 He vowed to continue cooperating closely to fight terrorism, to induce Iran to suspend its nuclear program and to curtail global warming. And he paid tribute to the soldiers of both countries who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Mr. Brown, who was chancellor of the Exchequer, or finance minister, in the Labor Party government of Tony Blair, has been calling for a ''global New Deal,'' with every country working to end the recession. He has urged greater accountability and transparency, and stricter oversight, for banking and other financial institutions. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain greeted lawmakers before speaking to a joint session of Congress on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); BRAIN CANCER (53%); CANCER (53%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); TONY BLAIR (59%); TED KENNEDY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



217 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Incumbents Fare Poorly, Hypothetically

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Things aren't looking so great for Gov. David A. Paterson.
 A poll released on Tuesday by the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion showed his approval rating at 26 percent, the lowest in the 27 years that Marist has been sampling opinion on New York governors. Like other recent polls, it indicated that he would get clobbered by Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo if the two met in a Democratic primary next year.
 The outlook isn't so rosy for Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey either. A Fairleigh Dickinson University pollreleased on Wednesday showed his approval rating at 40 percent and had him trailing his most likely Republican rival, former United States Attorney Christopher J. Christie, by 41 percent to 32 percent. 
 And then there's Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who has been under fire for mortgages he received at favorable rates from the Countrywide Financial Corporation. A Quinnipiac University poll last month put Mr. Dodd's approval rating at 41 percent, with a 48 percent disapproval rating, his poorest ratings in the history of the poll. All of a sudden, the names of Republicans said to be considering a race against him are popping up like Whac-a-Mole figures.
 Poll numbers for hypothetical races -- Mr. Corzine is up for re-election this year, the others next year -- make stock market prognostications look reliable. Incumbents have enormous advantages that tend to outlast pre-election noise, and no one has any idea what the world will look like when Election Day rolls around in 2009 and 2010. 
 But people don't get to fire the heads of Citibank or A.I.G. Physical violence tends not to be a good idea. Often, the safest way for people with underwater mortgages or exploded 401(k)'s to vent their frustration is at the voting booth.
 Of course, every race is different. Mr. Paterson, never elected to his job, and not exactly setting the world on fire, might be in trouble if the Dow were at 14,000. Mr. Corzine could face a strong contender in Mr. Christie. The roster of potential opponents to Mr. Dodd, including former Representative Rob Simmons and Lawrence Kudlow, the stock market talking head, doesn't look as formidable at the moment. 
 But Mr. Paterson aside, here's a question as we lurch, Lurch-like, into the great unknown: how much of a hit will politicians of all stripes take for the economic collapse, and is there ever a point where long-established voting patterns get thrown out the window? Not yet, but depending on how bad things get, who knows? 
 When American voters throw fits, they are invariably directed against one party. After Watergate we threw out Republicans. With Newt Gingrich's Contract With America, we threw out Democrats. Last year, we threw out Republicans again. '' 'Throw the rascals out, on a bipartisan basis' is not a description of any election I'm familiar with,'' said Ross K. Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers University. ''You have to go back to the 19th century, and then on an isolated regional basis, the Plains States in the 1880s and 1890s, for example, to see evidence of it.''
 SO the best you can say for most of the embattled Democrats of the Northeast might be: What's the alternative? The party of Bush, Limbaugh and Coulter, with Newt Gingrich as the minister of new ideas? Good luck with that. Mr. Corzine may be in trouble, but a Republican hasn't won a statewide race in New Jersey since Christie Whitman in 1997.
 So, in the short run, unless things completely fall apart, President Obama's popularity could be a powerful hole card for Democrats running in a real, rather than hypothetical, election.
 But what if things really spiral out of control? For now, there are just two political brands, and the blame for the economic collapse is mostly going to the Republicans. Once in a blue moon, we break the mold with off-brand outsider figures -- Jesse Ventura, for example. 
 Professor Baker said a sustained downturn has the potential to make that less of a rarity, perhaps providing more of a threat to the electoral status quothan exists now.
 He said, ''Maybe at some point we reach a point where that outsider figure can win, people who don't run as either Democrats or Republicans, who can say: 'Listen, the Republicans got us into this, the Democrats can't get us out of it. Try me.' ''
 Absent that, it may be a tough time to be an incumbent, but with parties increasingly split on philosophical lines, it may be even tougher for Republicans to beat them in the Northeast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (91%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (69%); BAC (LSE) (69%); 8648 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); JON CORZINE (78%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



218 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Obama Taps Clinton Ideas but Not Clinton Herself

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton has not participated in any of the White House's planning sessions on health care, the issue that defined her public persona during the 1990s. Intent on establishing herself as a powerful secretary of state, she has steered clear of public statements on the topic and has not discussed it in any detail with President Obama.
 Mrs. Clinton's distance from the health care initiative, figuratively and literally -- she will be in Brussels on Thursday when Mr. Obama begins his effort to overhaul the system with a high-profile gathering of experts -- underscores how the Obama White House is grappling with the cloud that still lingers over the Clinton plan 15 years after it imploded.
Mr. Obama is at once trying to distance himself from the baggage Mrs. Clinton carries as the architect of that plan, while demonstrating that he has learned from it. He is drawing on the experiences of a host of aides who are Clinton veterans, notably Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. But he is not relying on Mrs. Clinton herself. 
 ''I think we've got her pretty well occupied,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, adding that the president and Mrs. Clinton had spoken about her experience with health care ''only in the most general terms.''
 In an interview, Mr. Emanuel described the White House effort, beginning with Thursday's policy forum, as ''the manifestation of a series of learned examples, learned lessons,'' a litany of health policy do's and don'ts. To begin with, the Clinton plan was drafted in secret and delivered to lawmakers as a fait accompli; Mr. Obama is articulating broad principles and leaving the details to Congress. 
 President Bill Clinton waited 11 months after taking office in 1993 to roll out his plan, a delay many Democrats say was deadly. Mr. Obama is forging ahead after six weeks. Mr. Clinton focused heavily on access to care; Mr. Obama is framing the debate in terms of cost. The Clinton plan left Americans worried that they would be forced to switch doctors. Mr. Obama's message, Mr. Axelrod said, is, ''If you are happy with what you have, you can keep it.''
 For Mrs. Clinton, who spoke of many of these lessons during her run for president, being on the sidelines of the debate is bittersweet, friends and associates say. She agonized over leaving the Senate to join the cabinet, said John D. Podesta, another Clinton White House veteran who ran Mr. Obama's transition, because ''she wanted to be an active player on health care and get it done.''
 Now, if anyone scores a victory on health care reform, it may be Mr. Obama. Experts say the political climate for passing major health care changes is more favorable than ever, with business leaders, pharmaceutical and hospital executives, insurance officials and advocates for patients all agreeing the need is urgent. 
 ''There's no question that from a very limited start, she mastered an incredible amount of material, became quite expert and quite sophisticated,'' said Bruce Vladeck, who was Mr. Clinton's Medicare chief. ''Maybe this is the story of her life. Now that health care is achievable, that the political moon and stars are lined up to do it, she's no longer there.''
 Some who know Mrs. Clinton predict she will not be able to stay entirely out of the debate. Among them is Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat and chairman of the Finance Committee, who said he last spoke with Mrs. Clinton about health care before she took her cabinet post.
 ''Oh, Hillary's very smart, she'll figure out a way to sidebar with the president,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''I have a hunch that she'll give a word or two of advice to the president and to me, and I intend to talk to her.''
 Others, like Donna E. Shalala, who was health secretary to Mr. Clinton, say Mrs. Clinton does not need to advise Mr. Obama on the lessons of the past; she already did so when she ran for president by laying out a plan far different than the complicated proposal, heavy on government intervention, that flopped so badly when she was first lady.
 ''The way she laid out the issue during the campaign is a clear indication that they learned something over the last decade, and her proposal was very close to Senator Obama's,'' Ms. Shalala said. ''That reflects what we learned -- that people don't want to lose the health insurance they currently have, that they are desperately concerned about cost, that they want evidence based medicine and prevention. I think in many ways she's done her work.''
 For Mr. Emanuel and other Clinton veterans who now work for Mr. Obama -- among them Lawrence H. Summers, the chief economics adviser; Peter R. Orszag, the budget director; and Neera Tanden, a longtime policy aide to Mrs. Clinton who is now a senior official at the Department of Health and Human Services -- Mr. Obama's effort to remake the nation's health system is something of a do-over.
 It began with the economic recovery bill Mr. Obama recently signed, a measure that included $20 billion to modernize medical records and $1.1 billion for research on the cost effectiveness of drugs and medical treatments, initiatives that the White House says are critical to helping to bring down the cost of care. 
 Once the stimulus bill was enacted, Mr. Obama moved quickly to include money for health care changes in his budget, something Mr. Clinton did not do because his economic advisers wanted to focus on deficit reduction first, said Chris Jennings, who was Mr. Clinton's senior health policy adviser. ''That's really key,'' Mr. Jennings said. The delay, he said, ''probably was the reason why we were unable to sustain interest and support.''
 Mr. Obama, by contrast, made a conscious decision to tackle deficit reduction and health care, for which he set aside $634 billion in his budget, at once. ''We're 16 years later,'' Mr. Axelrod said, ''and I think the imperative is even greater because of the budget. Health care reform is a fiscal imperative now, not just a moral imperative.''
 In a sign that the White House is determined to learn from the Clintons' mistakes, Mr. Obama appointed Nancy-Ann DeParle, another former Clinton official, to run the new White House Office of Health Reform. Associates say Ms. DeParle had some misgivings about the Clinton plan. ''She was worried about the cost,'' Mr. Jennings said, ''and wanted to make sure we weren't overpromising and underfinancing.''
 Another sign is Thursday's bipartisan health care summit meeting, which was Mr. Emanuel's idea. He modeled it after a forum he helped Mr. Clinton convene during his second term. The topic then was welfare legislation, an initiative that, unlike the doomed health plan, passed Congress and was signed into law. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama hopes to learn from protests to the 1994 plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY STEWART/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); JOHN PODESTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



219 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela: Chavez Seizes Unit of U.S. Food Giant

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Venezbrf President Hugo Chavez nationalized a local unit of Cargill, a large American food and agriculture company, on Wednesday and threatened to seize Venezuela's largest private company, Polar, while demanding that the food industry cut the price of rice. His actions came less than three weeks after he won a referendum that will permit him to run for re-election after completing his second term. Mr. Chavez has previously nationalized major parts of the economy, including significant elements of the oil, telecommunications and energy industries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (83%); REFERENDUMS (83%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



220 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Amid Albany's Budget Crisis, A Rush to Spend U.S. Billions

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Throughout the Capitol, from the vaulted Assembly chamber to the first-floor cubicles of the Budget Division, officials are frantically slashing budgets, trimming headcounts and freezing salaries to deal with the worst fiscal crisis in decades.
 But in Room 246, a high-ceilinged suite recently turned over to Gov. David A. Paterson's new economic recovery cabinet, there is a different problem to tackle, courtesy of the federal stimulus passed last month: How to spend billions of dollars as quickly as possible. 
 Nearly every day, officials from 20 agencies meet there to sift through hundreds of proposals, from waste-treatment plants to courthouses to emergency wireless systems. On one wall is a map of New York's 62 counties, marked with the number of projects each has submitted for approval. On another is a list of the pools of federal money available to the state: $404 million to weatherize homes, $1 billion for highways and bridges, even $75 million for nuclear waste cleanup. 
 ''It's better than being on the other side,'' said Timothy J. Gilchrist, in between hurried bites of a salad. As the senior adviser for infrastructure and transportation, Mr. Gilchrist was appointed by the governor to oversee the distribution of the federal funds. ''I'm Captain Asphalt,'' he said.
 While the stimulus package includes money that New York and other states can use to close their budget deficits, much of it is reserved for large-scale capital projects, money that must be spent quickly -- in some cases in a few months -- to help jump-start the economy. 
 New York is expected to receive $4 billion -- a sum that has drawn contractors, local officials and lobbyists to the halls of the Capitol to push for a share. And it is potentially a political gift to Mr. Paterson, now facing the lowest recorded approval ratings of any governor in decades. Every new project offers the chance to earn a glowing headline in the local paper and win points with legislators and municipal officials, many of whom are still smarting at the budget cuts that Mr. Paterson has proposed for next year.
 But the money also brings headaches. Every project must navigate a labyrinth of regulations or risk being challenged by federal overseers. And if Mr. Paterson and his aides move too slowly, New York could lose hundreds of millions of dollars. 
 Of course, every new courthouse or sewer is a potential embarrassment akin to the Bridge to Nowhere. Any political fallout from waste or corruption will settle on Mr. Paterson, who, like all governors distributing stimulus money, must approve each project and certify its legitimacy. And even with $4 billion to spend, there is not enough to go around: local officials have submitted 7,675 projects totaling $41.8 billion, with more coming in each day.
 ''Things have been so bleak for so long, where there was no money for any kind of project,'' said Steven B. Weingarten, a lobbyist for several transportation agencies around the state. ''Once they saw there was money on the table, they said, 'We need to take a shot, any way we can.' ''
 At many state agencies, the rush of stimulus spending presents a bewildering dual reality. Since July, there has been a strict hiring freeze. Now officials must find consultants and staff members for new projects, even while they consolidate or close bureaus and offices. Some programs that faced severe budget cuts, like road and highway construction, are now awash in money.
 Merely reading through the 1,000-plus-page stimulus bill took Mr. Gilchrist and his staff several days and at least one all-nighter. (The transparency requirements run to 60 pages.) 
 As the days go by, they must stroke and soothe New York's Congressional delegation, which played a pivotal role in getting New York's billions and has a keen interest in how the money is spent. In Albany, lawmakers are already complaining that Mr. Paterson and his team have not consulted them enough. 
 The complaints are likely to keep coming. Because of the requirements that the money be spent on projects that have already undergone environmental reviews and met other technical requirements, many pet projects will not qualify, no matter who supports them.
 Local officials are in much the same position. The stimulus is a gold mine for capital spending, but has relatively little money for operating expenses, which county governments say they desperately need. For many of them, getting stimulus money is like being handed the keys to a brand new car while months of back rent go unpaid.
 ''The repairing of bridges and building roads are a good thing, and they will help us,'' said Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, who announced this week that the county could run out of cash by the end of the year. ''But they don't give a county government cash to pay its bills.''
 Of course, that doesn't mean they won't take as much money as they can get. Erie County, home to more than its share of crumbling highways and bridges, has submitted nearly 700 projects to the Paterson administration, several times more than any other county. And last week, Mr. Levy created his own stimulus team to comb through the stimulus package and determined what projects might qualify. 
 ''These monies,'' Mr. Levy noted, ''are very competitive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); NUCLEAR WASTE (70%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



221 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: A New President Confronts Old Wars

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Wars, Endless Wars'' (column, March 3):
 I share Bob Herbert's concern that the war in Afghanistan could undermine President Obama's administration. Although I have supported Mr. Obama since early in his campaign, I shudder when he says the real fight is in Afghanistan. 
 Prolonging that Bush-era conflict is not change I can believe in. The real fight is in the economic arena. Mr. Obama should exit the ''graveyard of empires'' before it consumes him.
 Jerry Wallingford San Diego, March 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert's column is a reminder that we can't allow ourselves to be sidetracked by our crises at home. We must simultaneously deal with global issues defined by our ever-expanding colonial tentacles. 
 Surely we can come up with a better strategy for protecting our community than establishing more and more military bases around the world. Our voices were raised loudly against President George W. Bush's militarism but not loudly enough. We were told that we must stop Communism from taking over Vietnam, and now the fear of terrorism is taking us along a similar path. No real strategy, just military power.
 President Obama must not take us on this insane path yet again, and we must not allow the military expansion to continue.
 Harry C. Tabak New Paltz, N.Y., March 3, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Bob Herbert got it right. President Obama, the savior all of us liberals voted for, is slogging down as he now brings more war to Afghanistan and promises only sluggish leaving of Iraq. I still have the audacity of hope, but my dreams are not of my father -- only of Lyndon B. Johnson redux.
 David E. Pasinski Fayetteville, N.Y., March 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I concur with Bob Herbert's column. A concern I haven't heard fully expressed is how seriously, in a Catch-22, our military presence in the Middle East contributes to our own defeat -- there and here. 
 First, by helping our enemies attract Islamic recruits to help in realizing their dreams of world domination. And second, through the provoked and continued hemorrhaging of our economy until, ultimately and systemically, the United States is too weakened and demoralized to effectively prevent the enemy's global encroachment. 
 Gerald T. Nordstrom Minneapolis, March 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I told one of my sons, a lawyer in California, that our assault on Iraq was, at its inception, reminiscent of our misadventure in Vietnam. He, being only 45, told me I was ''crazy.'' 
 ''There's no exit strategy,'' I replied. 
 Dan accompanied me on several antiwar demonstrations in the late 60s and early 70s. I thought I was being a good role model. Turns out mothers are in an unfair competition with mass media, local news blackouts and the power of a very attractive president. So where have all the flowers gone?
 Suzy Post Louisville, Ky., March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM (51%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); VIET NAM (87%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



222 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: One France Is Enough

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 The French writer Francois Mauriac once said during the cold war that he loved Germany so much, he was glad there were two of them. After what an undivided Germany had done to France in World War II and before, that was understandable.
 To paraphrase Mauriac, I love France, but I don't want there to be two of them, least of all if one is in the United States. 
 Don't get me wrong, I think President Obama's counter-revolution goes in the right direction. In fact, it's less a question of right and wrong with his budget than of necessity. After the excesses of Reagan-inspired deregulation and the disaster that unfettered markets have delivered, the pendulum had to swing.
 Still, the $3.6 trillion Obama budget made me a little queasy. There is a touch of France in its ''etatisme'' -- the state as all-embracing solution rather than problem -- and there's more than a touch of France in the bash-the-rich righteousness with which the new president cast his plans as ''a threat to the status quo in Washington.''
 Of course, the budget proposal represents a maximalist position that Congress will claw back. Obama knows that. Still there was something breathtaking about the scope of the president's targets and ambitions. For everyone from the oil and gas industry to drug companies, the message was clear: Off with their heads!
 I'd thought of Obama as less Robespierre than Talleyrand. I still think he's more bridge-building centrist than revolutionary. He needs to be. Money has never been more fungible than today.
 Punish capital and it will punish you by saying, ''Hasta la vista!'' The former French President Francois Mitterrand learned that a little over a quarter-century ago when, after an initial wave of nationalizations, he reversed course.
 Obama, too, will have to adjust and make trade-offs, while keeping his eye on core goals, like bringing health coverage to the country's 45 million uninsured. As he does so, he should be careful to guard America's spirit, without which recovery will stall.
 I lived for about a decade, on and off, in France and later moved to the United States. Nobody in their right mind would give up the manifold sensual, aesthetic and gastronomic pleasures offered by French savoir-vivre for the unrelenting battlefield of American ambition were it not for one thing: possibility.
 You know possibility when you breathe it. For an immigrant, it lies in the ease of American identity and the boundlessness of American horizons after the narrower confines of European nationhood and the stifling attentions of the European nanny state, which has often made it more attractive not to work than to work. High French unemployment was never much of a mystery.
 Americans, at least in their imaginations, have always lived at the new frontier; French frontiers have not shifted much in centuries.
 Churn is the American way. Companies are born, rise, fall and die. Others come along to replace them. The country's remarkable capacity for innovation, for reinvention, is tied to its acceptance of failure. Or always has been. Without failure, the culture of risk fades. Without risk, creativity withers. Save the zombies and you sabotage the vital.
 If America loses sight of these truths, it will cease to be itself.
 When the Big Three automakers, their heads in the sand, have made the wrong models with the wrong technologies for years, while their competitors adapted, I think it's inevitable that one -- probably Chrysler -- must pay the price. Bankruptcy is not necessarily the same as liquidation.
 I know, this is an exceptional moment. Decidedly the ''Decider'' delivered a debacle. President Obama, its recipient, sometimes resembles the trustee-in-chief of national bankruptcy proceedings. Hope is on hold.
 Trillions are the new billions and because 80 is the new 70, or so we are led to believe, you will get to live longer to witness where all the debt accumulated by throwing money into the bottomless pit of A.I.G., and its cohorts in leveraged fleecing, leaves the country.
 We are told that the collapse of A.I.G. would pose a ''systemic risk,'' but it would be a tonic to my particular system if someone in the Obama administration could explain why in plain language.
 The battle lines are being drawn. Mitt Romney, the former Republican presidential candidate, said of the Democrats: ''As they try to pull us in the direction of government-dominated Europe, we're going to have to fight as never before to make sure that America stays America.''
 Romney's got it upside-down. The Republicans under Bush destroyed the American economy and what America stood for in the world. But that does not change the fact that Obama, in his restorative counter-revolution, must be careful to steer clear of his French temptation.
 Greek tragedy holds that hubris, or overweening pride, leads inexorably to nemesis, divine judgment and at the last may usher in utter destruction. The United States is in full post-Bush nemesis. In its core values, un-Gallicized, lies the long road to redemption. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); NATIONALIZATION (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



223 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: A 13th Burial on the East Side At the Graveyard of Restaurants

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
The flag is roughly the color of barbecue sauce. It waves from a five-story building that until a few weeks ago housed Smokin' Q, the latest incarnation of a restaurant at a famously cursed location on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
The reddish-brown flag still flaps defiantly from 206 East 63rd Street. But Steven Levy, the restaurateur, has figuratively struck the colors. On Super Bowl Sunday, he closed Smokin' Q. The barbecue place had lasted barely a year. The leaseholder has taken possession of the kitchen equipment and is looking for a short-term tenant before his own lease on the building expires in 14 months. 
This is not another story about the risks of the restaurant business or even about one more innocent victim of the recession. You can't blame this one on George W. Bush or the banks. Rather, it's a story about a parcel of star-crossed real estate, once a stable and a warehouse, that the writer Gay Talese says ''stands as a testament to perseverance and to hardship.''
''It's not been affected by the current economic downturn,'' says Mr. Talese, who lives nearby, ''because its kitchen help -- chefs and bottle washers -- have always had to endure in a state of depression.''
Smokin' Q was the 12th actual restaurant and the terminally unlucky 13th restaurant partnership (one changed hands) to go belly up at that location since the mid 1970s. The block, between Second and Third Avenues, is mostly residential, but the fiascos at No. 206 are all the more mysterious since a restaurant a few doors away has thrived for a quarter-century.
The first of the restaurants, appropriately enough, was called Le Premier. It was so snobbish that the phone number wasn't listed. Then came Bistro Pascal, Gnolo, Moons, John Clancy's East, Lolabelle, Napa Valley Grill and Tucci. Next was Peaches, which was opened by Marla Maples, a Georgia native and Donald Trump's former wife. As a writer for The New York Times put it, Peaches had the ''life span of a piece of ripe fruit.''
Mr. Levy owned the next three. His premier was Il Patrizio, a kosher dairy restaurant, in 2000. On opening day, the brick pizza oven burned through a water hose and flooded the place.
Il Patrizio was succeeded by Haikara Grill, a kosher Japanese steakhouse that had flourished on Second Avenue until its lease there expired. Mr. Levy was hopeful that, coupled with the rave reviews at the original location, all the blessings before the meals would help. ''With a kosher restaurant,'' he said, ''you have a lot of praying going on.''
A mashgiach was stationed on the premises to supervise the kosher kitchen. An exorcist might have been preferable.
After Haikara Grill, Mr. Levy opened the decidedly nonkosher Smokin' Q, where, in his shtick-to-your-ribs style, the borscht belt met barbecue.
Why did Smokin' Q last only a year?
At least in the beginning, its barbecue watered the mouths of its beholders: Gael Greene loved the St. Louis ribs. Time Out New York listed the place as a ''critics' pick.'' And it all came with Mr. Levy's form of a money-back guarantee. As he delighted in telling his customers, ''If you don't like it, give me the money and don't come back.''
Mr. Levy, 64, was in Florida the other day recuperating from what must be a case of chronic agita. He can take only so much ribbing, but he's philosophical. Things could be even worse. After all, he used to work on Wall Street.
''When I first started Smokin' Q I knew the location, to say the least, was risky, based upon its history,'' he said. ''But the reason I pursued it was there was a restaurant installation already there, and for a lot less money and time I could renovate it into an authentic barbecue restaurant. And the rent -- $15,000 a month -- was very attractive.''
''But the old adage -- location, location, location -- which usually applies to investing, also holds very true when it comes to a restaurant,'' he said. ''I went up against it and I was defeated by it. This location stands out like a sore thumb.''
''It's not a question of a curse,'' he continued. ''I was confident that I could create a restaurant that was so wonderful that I could overcome the disadvantages of the location. The bottom line is, it was a mistake. Now, unfortunately, I realize had I spent twice the money to renovate and had taken twice as long to open up and paid twice the rent in a different location -- not on a side street and a residential street, but in the meatpacking district or the Village or SoHo where things are really happening -- I'd probably be a rich man today.''
It's true that not much is happening on the street. And Mr. Talese once called 206 East 63rd the Willy Loman of buildings. But it's hard to believe the spate of restaurant failures is only about location. Just down the block, in a similarly innocuous building, Gianni Garavelli's Bravo Gianni restaurant celebrated its 25th anniversary last year.
Mr. Levy notes that lots of other successful restaurants ''don't have great food or great service and the ambiance is not that terrific. What they do have is a celebrity involved as an investor or a chef who's been on television.''
Smokin' Q had neither, although it did achieve a measure of notoriety as the 13th restaurant partnership at that location. Mr. Levy hasn't decided yet on his next venture in New York, but he is certain about what he will not do: open another restaurant at 206 East 63rd Street.
''Not even with your money,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Smokin' Q, a barbecue shop on East 63rd Street, has smoked its last rib, but another restaurant a few doors away is still going after 25 years. For now, the restaurateur Steven Levy is cooling his sauce in Florida.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WRITERS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (51%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



224 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2285 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
'CHE' (R, 4:17, in Spanish and English; shown in two parts, 2:09 and 2:08) Nearly four and a half hours long and spanning more than a decade, ''Che'' surely deserves the overworked, frequently misapplied label of epic. But it's a narrow epic, and while Benicio Del Toro, in the title role, offers a performance that's technically flawless, the movie is politically naive and dramatically inert. (A. O. Scott)
-'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk. (Manohla Dargis)
'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC' (PG, 1:40) Like the flailing American economy, this comedy with Isla Fisher wants to eat its conspicuous-consumption cake and have its spiritual redemption too. (Dargis) 
- 'CORALINE' (PG, 1:40) Henry Selick's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novel is exquisitely beautiful and creepy in the best ways. (Scott)
'CROSSING OVER' (R, 1:53) Wayne Kramer takes on immigration in a politically tinged drama with Harrison Ford and Cliff Curtis, which delivers its sanctimony with fist shaking, lurid violence and periodically bared female flesh. (Dargis)
'THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON' (PG-13, 2:47) A hothouse blossom of romance, intrigue and breathtaking digital effects from David Fincher (''Zodiac,'' ''Fight Club''). Brad Pitt stars as a man who ages backward, but it is Cate Blanchett who provides the film's delicate, graceful emotional center of gravity. (Scott)
'DELHI-6' (No rating, 2:20, in Hindi and English) Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra's ambitious film means to be nothing less than a referendum on the modern Indian soul. Sadly, the movie is bogged down by its own good intentions, though Abhishek Bachchan does his best to keep things light. (Rachel Saltz)
'DOUBT' (PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser. (Dargis)
'EXAMINED LIFE' (No rating, 1:28) In this alternately interesting and vexing documentary, a handful of famous philosophers walk and talk, explaining their thinking on camera. (Scott)
'FIRED UP!' (PG-13, 1:29) Two teenage boys attend cheerleading camp. Puppy love, nubile flesh and unexpectedly funny jokes follow. (Dargis)
'FRIDAY THE 13TH' (R, 1:30) An undying slasher-flick franchise gets a surprisingly decent reboot in this stylish, playful example of the decapitated-hottie genre. (Nathan Lee)
'FROST/NIXON' (R, 2:02) It's twinkle (Michael Sheen) versus glower (Frank Langella) in Ron Howard's amusing, facile edition of the Peter Morgan theatrical smackdown. (Dargis)
'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. (Stephen Holden)
- 'GOMORRAH' (No rating, 2:15, in Italian) Based on the 2006 expose of the same title by the Italian journalist Roberto Saviano, this corrosive, ferociously unsentimental fictionalized look at organized crime from the director Matteo Garrone is also a bracing corrective to the sentimentalized Mafia thug popularized on both the big and small screens. (Dargis)
- 'GRAN TORINO' (R, 1:56) Once again Clint Eastwood shows everyone how it's done, with a sleek muscle car of a movie set in that industrial graveyard called Detroit about a racist who befriends a besieged Hmong family next door. (Dargis)
'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU' (PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I. (Dargis)
'HOTEL FOR DOGS' (PG, 1:40) Children and dogs: those two magic words distill the appeal of this cuter-than-cute, sweeter-than-sweet family film about animal-loving kids who embark on a crusade to rescue all the stray pooches in a fictional city. (Holden)
'THE INTERNATIONAL' (R, 1:58) A murderous bank, pursued by Clive Owen and Naomi Watts. Much less interesting, and also less frightening, than a daily perusal of the business pages. (Scott)
'JONAS BROTHERS: THE 3-D CONCERT EXPERIENCE' (G, 1:16) Strictly for the cult. (Lee)
'KATYN' (No rating, 2:01, in Polish) The great Polish filmmaker Andrjez Wajda's film is a dignified, somber reckoning with one of the central traumas of his nation's history: the massacre by the Soviet Army of nearly 15,000 Polish officers during the first months of World War II. (Scott)
'LAST CHANCE HARVEY' (PG, 1:38) Dustin Hoffman and Emma Thompson don't make a lot of sense as a screen couple, but there's something irresistible about watching two people fall in love, even in contrived, sniffle- and sometimes gag-inducing films like this one. (Dargis)
- 'LET THE RIGHT ONE IN' (No rating, 1:54, in Swedish) A charming and chilling Swedish love story directed by Tomas Alfredson about a lonely boy and the girl next door who may just happen to be a vampire. (Dargis)
- 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
- 'MILK' (R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness. The large supporting cast is also excellent, and includes James Franco as Milk's lover and campaign manager, Scott Smith, and Josh Brolin as Dan White, Milk's colleague on the Board of Supervisors and also his murderer. (Scott)
'PAUL BLART: MALL COP' (PG, 1:30) Fat people are funny. Fat people who run into things are funnier. Fat people who run into things and have humiliating working-class jobs? Stop, you're killing me! (Nathan Lee)
'THE PINK PANTHER 2' (PG, 1:32) Hoary slapstick routines, only marginally funny, are all there is in this disorganized hodgepodge of juvenile pranks starring an overstressed Steve Martin. (Holden)
'PUSH' (PG-13, 2:01) Navigating a Hong Kong bristling with partly constructed skyscrapers, a telekinetic (Chris Evans) and a clairvoyant (Dakota Fanning) hunt for a mysterious suitcase while dodging a pair of Chinese brothers whose screams can pop blood vessels. Paul McGuigan directs with maximum efficiency and minimum reliance on computers, creating a landscape crawling with mind controllers and human bloodhounds. The only ability in short supply is acting. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
- 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
'THE READER' (R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs. (Dargis)
'REVOLUTIONARY ROAD' (R, 1:59) Sam Mendes directs Kate Winslet and a fine Leonardo DiCaprio in a waxworks edition of the corrosive, furiously unsentimental novel by Richard Yates about an unhappy marriage in the mid-1950s. (Dargis)
'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE' (R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel. (Dargis)
- 'SYNECDOCHE, NEW YORK' (R, 2:04) To say that Charlie Kaufman's feature debut is one of the best films of the year or even the one closest to my heart is such a pathetic response to its soaring ambition that I might as well pack it in right now. (In other words: Go!) (Dargis)
- 'TWO LOVERS' (R, 1:48) A ripe, old-school romantic melodrama, with Joaquin Phoenix as a young Brooklyn man torn between the pull of duty and the dream of escape, and also between the title figures, played by Vinessa Shaw and Gwyneth Paltrow. With Isabella Rosselini as a Jewish mother beyond Alexander Portnoy's wildest dreams. (Scott)
'TYLER PERRY'S MADEA GOES TO JAIL' (PG-13, 1:43) Not that jail can contain her, though neither can Mr. Perry's somewhat threadbare melodrama-meets-comedy formula. (Scott)
- 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
- 'WALTZ WITH BASHIR' (R, 1:27) Ari Folman's animated documentary about Israeli soldiers haunted by memories of the 1982 Lebanon war is part memoir, part dream, part combat picture and altogether amazing. (Scott)
- 'WENDY AND LUCY' (R, 1:20) In Kelly Reichardt's latest film Michelle Williams plays Wendy, a lonely young woman who encounters a run of bad luck while drifting through Oregon and Washington with her dog, Lucy. At first glance the film seems like little more than an extended anecdote, but underneath this plain narrative surface is a lucid and melancholy inquiry into the current state of American society. (Scott)
- 'THE WRESTLER' (R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair. (Scott)
Film Series
'MINNIE AND MOSKOWITZ' (Saturday) The Movie Night program at the IFC Center returns with John Cassavetes's rarely screened 1971 romantic comedy, starring Gena Rowlands and Seymour Cassel as a couple unlikely even by Cassavetes standards. The film will be introduced by the director John Cameron Mitchell (''Hedwig and the Angry Inch''), who says it ''features Seymour Cassel's greatest performance, and it contains the best bad date scene ever filmed.'' At 9:30 p.m., IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $15. (Dave Kehr)
IVAN PASSER'S WAY (Friday through Monday, and Wednesday and Thursday) Ivan Passer directed only one feature in his native Czechoslovakia before political events forced his emigration, but it is a masterpiece: ''Intimate Lighting,'' released in 1965, is a psychological study of great grace and subtlety about two former friends reunited for an evening of alcohol and jazz. Mr. Passer will be present to introduce the film on Friday at 6 p.m.; screenings continue through Thursday, in a program that includes three of Mr. Passer's American features (''Cutter's Way,'' 1981; ''Born to Win,'' 1971; ''Law and Disorder,'' 1974), as well as a new documentary on Mr. Passer directed by Martin Sulik. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)
RENDEZ-VOUS WITH FRENCH CINEMA 2009 (Friday through Thursday) A selection of recent French films sponsored by the French film export agency, Unifrance, continues uptown at the Walter Reade Theater and downtown at the IFC Center. Among the offerings: Claire Denis's ''35 Shots of Rum'' (Friday, Sunday and Thursday); Agnes Varda's documentary ''The Beaches of Agnes'' (Saturday and Monday); Claude Chabrol's police thriller ''Bellamy,'' with Gerard Depardieu (Friday and Thursday); Andre Techine's ''Girl on the Train'' (Sunday, Monday and Tuesday); Jean-Francois Richet's two-part crime saga ''Mesrine'' (Tuesday and Wednesday); and Martin Provost's ''Seraphine'' (Friday through Sunday), a study of an untutored painter that dominated the recent Cesar Awards. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.org; $12.50. IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $12.50. (Kehr)
RIP TORN RETROSPECTIVE (Friday through Thursday) This restlessly inventive actor is honored with a series at Anthology Film Archives, with a concentration on his independent films. The director Milton Moses Ginsberg will be present on Friday at 7 p.m. to introduce his ever-astonishing ''Coming Apart'' (1969), with Mr. Torn as a psychiatrist recording his own mental breakdown. Ira Sachs will be on hand on Saturday at 9 p.m. to present his 2005 ''Forty Shades of Blue,'' featuring Mr. Torn as a country music producer facing a declining career. Other films in the program include Alan Rudolph's ''Songwriter'' (Friday and Tuesday), Richard Brooks's ''Sweet Bird of Youth'' (Saturday), Norman Mailer's ''Beyond the Law'' (Monday) and Joseph Strick's ''Tropic of Cancer'' (Tuesday). Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $9. (Kehr)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ivan Passer's Way: Mr. Passer's 1965 film ''Intimate Lighting,'' with Vera Kresadlova, is among the titles featured in this program of his works at the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Passer, part of the Czech New Wave, will be present on Friday to introduce the film.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART FILM ARCHIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); RELIGION (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); CHILDREN (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CHILD ABUSE (50%); REFERENDUMS (50%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%)

PERSON: HARRISON FORD (59%); CATE BLANCHETT (59%); BRAD PITT (59%); MERYL STREEP (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



225 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS GRANBY, COLO.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: The Old Mountain West in Ski Resort Alley

BYLINE: By CINDY HIRSCHFELD

 BODY:
FOR almost a century Granby, in a broad valley of north-central Colorado just west of the Continental Divide, kept a low profile, supplying local ranchers and later housing workers from the nearby resort towns of Winter Park and Grand Lake.
Earlier this decade, however, people started paying attention to this rural community when, over a few years, the town annexed almost 7,000 acres and quadrupled in size. Three subdivisions aimed at second-home buyers were proposed for the land; Granby wanted to share in the long-term economic benefits, and the town had less-restrictive zoning laws than the county.
Now Granby is becoming known as a second-home destination, especially for buyers from the Denver area, about 85 miles or a 90-minute drive away. Within 25 minutes of town are four golf courses, Alpine and Nordic ski areas, miles of trails in the Arapaho National Forest and the less-crowded western side of Rocky Mountain National Park, and several lakes and rivers, including Lake Granby.
Though many recreational amenities had been in place for decades, a large inventory of desirable second homes had not. Construction of several subdivisions that appeal especially to vacation buyers seeking low-maintenance houses and clublike services has changed that. And a once potentially treacherous drive over the 11,300-foot Berthoud Pass is less so, thanks to road improvements. 
The variety of activities and quick access appeal to active couples like Anna and Steve Conrad of Castle Pines, Colo., south of Denver, who were about to buy a condominium in Keystone. But on a summer hike at the SolVista Basin ski area in Granby, where the on-slope views take in the peaks of the nearby Never Summer Range and Rocky Mountain National Park, it hit them that they had found their place. ''We looked at each other and said, 'Wow, this is where we want to raise our kids,' '' said Ms. Conrad, a lawyer.
The couple, whose children are 2 and 5, bought a two-bedroom condominium at Granby Ranch, a 5,000-acre development that includes the ski area, a golf course and three miles along the Fraser River. The Conrads paid $218,000 for their condo in 2006 and use it every weekend. In summer, they hike, fish and kayak at the ranch, and Mr. Conrad enjoys the mountain-bike park at SolVista. In winter, they ski at the area, which has 33 trails and gentle pitches well suited for beginners.
The Conrads take frequent advantage of an extensive slate of family-focused activities, including tubing and skiing parties, dinners and cooking classes, organized by Granby Ranch for its 400-some homeowners. ''Some of our best friends are people we've met up there,'' Ms. Conrad said. ''We feel like it's an extended family.''
While hardcore skiers may opt for a home closer to the more challenging slopes of Winter Park, 20 miles southeast, Brian and Lori Tiedge bought in Granby because they wanted easy access to both golf and skiing. The Tiedges, who live in Aurora, Colo., paid about $550,000 for a four-bedroom town house on the golf course at the 437-acre Grand Elk Club & Ranch a little more than a year ago.
In winter, a shuttle owned by the club deposits them at Grand Elk's private Alpine Club at the base of Winter Park, where the Tiedges can store their skis and relax by a fireplace after skiing. In summer, 18 holes of golf are right out the door. ''It's the best of both worlds,'' said Mr. Tiedge, an architect.
The Scene
Still a one-stoplight town (a second is on the way), Granby, with a population of 1,668 in a recent Census estimate, is decidedly unpretentious, more a traditional Western mountain town than a resort community.
It was incorporated in 1905 to serve the railroad, and trains on the Amtrak California Zephyr stop twice daily. U.S. 40 runs through town as the main street, Agate Avenue. Low-slung buildings house service-oriented businesses -- furniture stores, an auto repair shop, the local newspaper office, a tattoo parlor -- interspersed with family-style restaurants and motels.
A dark moment in the town's history came in June 2004, when a local businessman involved in a zoning dispute plowed a bulldozer into cars and structures downtown, including the newspaper office and the town hall.
The town's current path of measured reinvention started early last year, when the mayor at the time proposed a measure to limit tattoo and pawnshops downtown. ''It was an elitist approach to managing main street,'' said Patrick Brower, a former editor and publisher of the newspaper. The measure didn't pass, and a new mayor was elected two months later.
The current government hopes to attract restaurants and retail shops to appeal to a growing number of second-home owners, as well as full-time residents. Though it's easy to dip into the local scene at places like the weekly summer farmers' market or Java Lava, a coffee shop that opened last year, second-home owners also say they've found a strong sense of community among their neighbors.
Two years ago, Sunday and John Mann of Denver paid in the mid-$300,000s for a three-bedroom riverside house in the Edgewater subdivision so they could walk out the door and fly-fish. What they also found was a group of fellow fishing enthusiasts whom they quickly befriended.
At Edgewater, said Ms. Mann, an interior designer, homeowners host potluck dinners on their decks in summer and roast s'mores at the communal outdoor fire pits in winter. ''We got to know our neighbors, and now we see them in Denver, too,'' she said.
Pros
Granby is convenient to year-round recreation in all directions. Home prices are lower than in neighboring resort communities: about 40 percent below Winter Park, for example.
Cons
Both locals and part-timers say there is a lack of variety among restaurants. The area has been hit hard by the pine-beetle infestation that is ravaging Colorado's lodgepole-pine forests. Buyers should check homeowners' association minutes to see if assessments for tree cutting or spraying are planned, said Penny Hamilton, owner of Forest & Lake Real Estate.
The Real Estate Market
''Granby is a huge growth area in the county,'' said Chuck Haines of Coldwell Banker Mountain Properties. ''Several years ago, there was really nothing to entice someone to go to Granby as a destination until Grand Elk and Granby Ranch got off the ground. There were some second-home opportunities, and some very nice ones, but not with the club amenities.''
In 2008, according to the local multiple-listing service, the average sales price was $379,124.
Vacation buyers who want newer homes and on-site recreation like golf and fishing gravitate to Granby Ranch and Grand Elk. Wyndham Worldwide is building a 44-unit fractional-ownership project at Grand Elk. C Lazy U, a luxury guest ranch about seven miles from town, offers homesites and cabins on 11,000 acres. One development plan, Orvis Shorefox, has stalled.
Second-home owners also buy in older subdivisions like Legacy Park Ranch, about three miles east of Granby, and Innsbruck-Val Moritz, at the southern end of town. Property on Lake Granby is hard to find because much of the surrounding land is federally owned.
So far, the economic downturn has primarily affected lot sales. ''It's mostly vacant land where prices have gone down,'' said Becky Brosh, an agent with Edgewater Realty and president of the Grand County Board of Realtors. ''The average sale price is down 38 percent from a year ago, while the sales price for residentials is down just 7 percent and holding steady.'' And, Ms. Brosh added, ''The average days on the market was 236 a year ago, and now we're at 199. That's a strong indicator that the market is not going to topple.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UNDERSTATED: The town of Granby offers the snow-covered luster of the Rockies without the glitter of the better-known resort areas nearby.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); HIKING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); ZONING (77%); FAMILY (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); LAKES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (73%); RIVERS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



226 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'BREAKING BAD'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Better Living Through Chemistry

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
When the AMC drama ''Breaking Bad,'' about a terminally ill scientist with a doomed career, inadequate health coverage and a newfound taste for drug dealing, made its debut last winter, its aggressively dismal mood struck some viewers as groundless and a bit much.
The Dow, then, remained comfortably above 10,000; the insurance industry seemed robust, and most Americans did not know the name Bernie Madoff or wonder whether, in his baseball cap, he looked more like Barry Levinson or Larry David. The End of Everything as We Know It did not seem imminent. Now, of course, the extremist misery of ''Breaking Bad'' (which begins its second season on Sunday) feels virtually like reportage. 
Even at the moment, it would be hard to compete with the misfortunes of Walt White, a former Caltech chemistry genius who failed to live up to the legend of his graduate student days. At 50, he is teaching high school chemistry in Albuquerque. Although he contributed to the work of a Nobel-winning team, the job, inexplicably, is the best he can get -- there is no adjunct position at the University of New Mexico even remotely on the horizon.
Adding to the injustice, Walt's best friend at Cal Tech has applied his talents to amassing a fortune and married Walt's brilliant and ethereal-looking ex. At a birthday party for his friend, Walt discovers that all his other classmates are also living in houses of vast square footage. One brings a guitar that belonged to Eric Clapton, despite an invitation that specified no gifts. Having obeyed, Walt is mortified to add to a pile of lavishly wrapped presents some packets of ramen noodles with nostalgic value.
Walt is given to us by Bryan Cranston, who won an Emmy for his performance last year and deserved it largely for avoiding a tenor of bitterness that such collected indignities might easily engender. He plays Walt, a suburbanite with so much more to complain about than anyone out of a mid-20th-century American novel, as a man bewildered by his circumstances but loftily above grievance. There is a sustained Zen quality to Mr. Cranston's performance; he seems like someone utterly immune to agitation.
And yet there is more and more to unnerve. That Walt is living out his grim existence in the combatively sunny Southwest is just another cruel joke, the chief one being that he is suffering from lung cancer -- Stage 3A -- even though he doesn't smoke. The series began with Walt partnering with a former student in the crystal-meth business. Walt is so skilled around the test tubes and compounds that he doesn't even need Sudafed as a base ingredient. He can cook up top-quality methamphetamine -- the Chateau Lafite Rothschild of methamphetamine -- essentially from scratch, which provides him with a more expansive supply than his competitors and thus the money to pay for the top oncologist in town.
Initially, Walt isn't even moved to seek treatment -- it is his wife, Skyler (Anna Gunn), who forces him out of his passivity. Since its outset, ''Breaking Bad'' has drawn the inevitable comparisons to ''Weeds,'' but the two series have very little to say to each other, partly because Walt is diving into underground economies out of a more gripping sense of fiscal necessity, but also because the drug trade seems to provide him with a sort of existential rejuvenation. He is making the most potent crystal meth in the city; he is excelling at something. And his decision to do so appears to be the first real choice he has made in years.
The show's current season quickens the pace, but not at the expense of its meditative spirit. Walt is in trouble with his kingpin distributor, a gold-toothed psychopath who also happens to be under the surveillance of Walt's brother-in-law, Hank (Dean Norris), an agent for the Drug Enforcement Administration who seems close to figuring out what Walt is doing when he isn't receiving chemo.
There is a genuine suspense and thrill to the show now, but it succeeds largely as a treatise not on the tragedy of cancer but on the sheer monotony of it, the relentless waiting around. Aided by a camera that largely sits still and lingers, the series has a way of acutely portraying the attendant uncertainties and discomforts of severe illness as something like dull routine. In the first season Walt's hair fell out in tidy patches in the shower, and whenever he retreated from class to go throw up, the same janitor was around to help him. The doctors are dependably tone deaf to the stresses of his condition.
In a stunning evocation of medical insensitivity, Walt, forced to see a psychiatrist when he disappears from his family for a few days, is asked why he took off. ''Doctor, my wife is seven months pregnant with a baby we did not intend,'' he explains in serenely blunt summation. ''My 15-year-old son has cerebral palsy. I am an extremely overqualified high school chemistry teacher. When I can work, I make $43,700 per year. I have watched all of my colleagues and friends surpass me in every way imaginable, and within 18 months, I will be dead.''
''Breaking Bad'' could make even Detroit or A.I.G. look, briefly, on the bright side.
Breaking Bad
AMC, Sundays at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.
Created and written by Vince Gilligan; directed by Bryan Cranston; Mr. Gilligan and Mark Johnson, executive producers; Karen Moore, Stewart A. Lyons and Melissa Bernstein, producers; Sam Catlin, co-producer; Diane Mercer, associate producer; Lynne Willingham, editor; Michael Slovis, director of photography; Robb Wilson King, production designer. Produced by High Bridge Productions Inc. and Gran Via Productions in association with Sony Pictures Television for AMC.
WITH: Bryan Cranston (Walter H. White), Aaron Paul (Jesse Pinkman), Anna Gunn (Skyler White), Dean Norris (Hank), Betsy Brandt (Marie), R J Mitte (Walter White Jr.) and Raymond Cruz (Tuco).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Breaking Bad: Bryan Cranston plays the lead role of this drama series on AMC.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHY KANAVY/AMC) (C1)
 From left, Raymond Cruz, Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHY KANAVY/AMC)(pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); CANCER (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); METHAMPHETAMINE (62%); INSURANCE (56%); LUNG CANCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (56%); LARRY DAVID (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Breaking Bad (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



227 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: A Bronx Official, A Brooklyn Home

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
People who know the acting Bronx borough president, Earl D. Brown, invoke many kind words to describe him: accomplished, nice, smart and diligent, for starters. Here's one more: Brooklynite. 
That's right, the man who runs the Bronx lives in Brooklyn.
He was living in Brooklyn even when he was serving as deputy Bronx borough president, a position to which he was named in 2002 by the incoming borough chief, Adolfo Carrion Jr. This week, as Mr. Carrion resigned to become the urban policy czar for the Obama administration, Mr. Brown took over until a successor is chosen in a special election on April 21.
While the City Charter requires that an elected borough president reside in the borough, it sets no such residency requirement for appointed deputies. It also says that the borough president can appoint either the deputy or the executive assistant.
In a phone interview, Mr. Brown acknowledged that his Brooklyn neighbors had been curious about his new post. He likens himself to an adoptive parent, choosing to work in the Bronx. He thought he was able to do meaningful work. But he never considered moving. Nor was he ever asked.
''When Adolfo and I first spoke about the position, he never indicated that was a must,'' he said. ''I've lived in Brooklyn my entire life. That's where my family is.''
Admittedly, the definition of Bronxite in recent years has been fluid, as when Dr. Ruth Westheimer was honored by being named to the Bronx Walk of Fame, even though she lives in Washington Heights in Manhattan.
According to Mr. Brown's biographical sketch, he has worked with borough presidents in Manhattan and Brooklyn. He is an active volunteer with youth at risk and serves on the board of a group that provides social services to some of the city's most vulnerable people. (The sketch also notes that he is the president of his co-op, though it does not say where.)
Still, some view the turn of events as projecting the wrong image about the borough.
''This was ridiculous and avoidable,'' said Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz, who represents Riverdale, where a former borough president, Fernando Ferrer, and his deputy, Genevieve Brooks, lived. ''If I had been appointing a deputy borough president -- and Earl is very competent and a great guy, by the way -- I'd appoint a Bronx guy. And if he was not a Bronx guy, I'd insist he become a Bronx guy.''DAVID GONZALEZ
ALSO
ON THE BLOG
State Jobless Rate Hits 7 Percent: The state's unemployment rate in January, 7 percent, was 2.3 percentage points higher than the January 2008 figure, according to the State Labor Department. That is the biggest absolute rise in the state in any 12-month period on record.
Brooklyn G.O.P. Backs Mayor: Brooklyn Republican organization leaders voted Wednesday night to allow Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to run on their party's ballot line this fall, a coup for the mayor's re-election campaign. The mayor still needs the backing of two more of the city's five Republican county organizations to run on the party's line.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Earl D. Brown, acting Bronx borough president.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); ADVICE COLUMNS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



228 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: The Deal That Fueled Subprime

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
There are times when a corporate takeover has importance far beyond the companies involved.
The 2002 agreement for HSBC, the London-based international bank, to buy the biggest American finance company, Household International, seemed at the time to be such a merger. And it was.
The merger established that lending to subprime customers was a respectable business. Finance companies like Household and its corporate sister, Beneficial, had long had slightly disreputable reputations. They lent money to homeowners who could not get financing from normal banks, and they engaged in collection methods that might seem aggressive to more timid financiers. 
Not long before the merger, Household had agreed to pay $484 million to settle claims it was a predatory lender. Its borrowing costs had risen and its stock was at a seven-year low.
''This sector's been beat up on a regular basis,'' said Robert K. Cole, the chairman and chief executive of New Century Financial, then a fast-rising subprime lender. ''So it's refreshing when a highly qualified suitor sees value.''
This week, HSBC conceded defeat. It will close the remaining 800 offices of Beneficial and Household Financial, and it will stop making loans. ''With the benefit of hindsight, this is an acquisition we wish we had not undertaken,'' Michael F. Geoghegan, HSBC's chief executive, understated.
That announcement came 23 months after New Century filed for bankruptcy, becoming an early casualty of the financial revolution that accelerated after HSBC helped to legitimize the sector.
What would have happened if HSBC had walked away from the deal before it was completed in 2003? John Hempton, an Australian hedge fund manager who lost money betting HSBC would do just that, thinks things would have been very different, with Household perhaps failing then and investors being more hesitant about what he calls ''dodgy mortgage paper.''
HSBC, he says, ''provided the assurance that got this subprime mortgage thing really rocking. They are who you should blame.''
That is probably too strong, but it is clear that securitization of subprime mortgages took off after the HSBC deal.
HSBC's losses from Household are a big part of the reason it now must raise $18 billion in new capital by selling shares. (At least it can do that. It is one of the few major banks not yet bailed out by a government.) Brendan McDonagh, the chief executive of HSBC's North American operations, said it would continue to expand its banking business in the United States, even though the finance company offices will close.
When HSBC bought Household, it thought its big competitive advantage was that it could borrow money much more cheaply, thus instantly giving Household higher profit margins. For a time, that strategy seemed to work.
But there were other problems that cropped up even before the financial crisis struck. The old Household ''serviced'' its loans in a personal way not known to major banks, recalled Guy D. Cecala, the publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance. ''The man who approved the loan knew when a customer was paid, and would show up that day looking for the payment,'' he said. Sending out bills was not necessarily the same thing.
There were warnings of trouble when the deal was done, but they were mostly off the mark. Could HSBC compete in that market without sullying its reputation? The fear essentially was that it would get caught making money by cheating its customers.
Instead, HSBC had gotten in on a market that was soon to soar, and then to kill itself with its own excesses. All the money that was suddenly available to finance subprime mortgages -- thanks to the wonder of securitization -- meant that lending standards inevitably withered.
HSBC resisted some of the worst innovations, sticking mostly to fixed-rate mortgages rather than negative amortization loans with exploding interest rates. But that discipline applied only to loans originated by its own offices. When it diversified by buying mortgages that others had originated, it got plenty of the more toxic variety.
By holding on to nearly all the mortgages it originated, rather than securitizing them, HSBC might have been spared from some pain, although the losses did mount up. Its lending officers still thought their company would suffer if the loans went bad, providing a discipline that vanished elsewhere.
The closing of those 800 Household Financial and Beneficial offices, down from 1,400 a couple of years ago, comes at a time when there is more need than ever for credit by Household's traditional customers. Most banks that are now making mortgage loans are offering only loans that can be immediately sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, the government-controlled and federally financed enterprises.
You might think that could enable a deep-pocketed operation like HSBC to earn good money on new business with customers who do not qualify for such loans. It no longer needs to worry about competition from the likes of New Century, and could demand better profit margins than ever.
If that were true, it would be foolish for HSBC to close down the finance company business now, even if buying it in 2003 had been a mistake.
But the old Household model was broken by the very boom that it helped to create. That model was based on lending to people who had jobs and equity in their homes, even if their credit records had blemishes, and then aggressively monitoring the loans to seek repayment.
With home prices down sharply, and with so many homeowners having taken out home equity loans based on peak values, there are not many homeowners now who have enough equity to make such loans possible. Of the few that are left, a significant number may be in danger of losing their jobs.
In that environment, HSBC was probably right to conclude that it was not worth it to keep its network of offices open while it waited for a recovery in the economy and the housing market to create a supply of possible customers.
There may be a larger lesson in HSBC's Household misadventure. ''Companies that used their high credit rating to do business that was incompatible with that credit rating have all blown up,'' said Mr. Hempton, the hedge fund manager, reeling off a list that included the American International Group, General Electric and MBIA, as well as HSBC. Saying G.E. has blown up is not fair, but there are enough worries about its financial business that G.E. shares fell to a 17-year low this week.
Some activities are inherently risky. Securitization was based on the fiction that financial engineering could turn risky loans into risk-free securities. That belief led to far too much capital going into such loans, which in the long run made such loans even riskier, and the losses to those who financed them all the greater.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 2002, John Bond of HSBC announced it would buy Household. On Monday, the HSBC chief Michael Geoghegan, right, said: ''This is an acquisition we wish we had not undertaken.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD CANNON/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 MIKE CLARKE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); PREDATORY LENDING (77%); FAIR LENDING (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (91%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%)

PERSON: JOHN BOND (79%); MICHAEL F GEOGHEGAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



229 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2156 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
A TRUCE IN NORTHERN PAKISTAN
Appears to Be Anything But
When the Taliban and the Pakistani Army signed a truce last month in Swat, a once-popular tourist region of Pakistan, it was intended to bring peace. Instead, it seems to have done little more than give the Taliban the freedom of movement needed to establish a harsh religious rule. Page A6
RUSSIAN SEEMS CHASTENED
Five-and-a-half years ago a defiant Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky was sent to prison, vowing to fight for political freedom in Russia even from his cell. Now in Moscow for a new trial, he is accused of money laundering and embezzling oil with his company, Yukos Oil. This time he seems ready to discuss what he sees as possible negotiations with the Kremlin for his freedom. Page A6 
U.S. TO INVITE IRAN
The Obama administration could have its first face-to-face meeting with Iran at a major conference proposed on Afghanistan this month. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has announced the plans for the conference in the Netherlands and said that Iran would be on the list of invited countries. Page A6
Hadong Journal
Straight Up... From the Tree
Americans, and their pancakes, are well aware of the virtues of the maple tree. But for centuries southern Korean villagers have been collecting the sap of a maple tree know as the ''gorose'' but not as a confection. The villagers and a growing number of customers credit the unadulterated sap with a wide array of health benefits. Page A9
CIVILIANS TRAPPED IN SRI LANKA
What the Sri Lankan government is calling its final assault to quell a rebellion has trapped as many as 200,000 civilians in the cross-fire, relief agencies said. As the military fights the ethnic Tamil separatists, civilians are exposed to constant shelling, and have no shelter and dwindling food, water and medical supplies. Page A8
SUDAN LEADER DEFIES THE HAGUE
President Omar Hassan al-Bashir condemned a recent warrant for his arrest issued by the International Criminal Court at The Hague. At a rally, he called the court's decision a conspiracy aimed at recolonizing his country. Page A10
HOME, HOME ON THE STEPPES
The roots of the Kentucky Derby may extend all the way to the Kazakh steppes. Ok, not exactly, but archaeologists have uncovered signs in Kazakhstan that a pastoral people inhabiting the region around 3500 B.C. may have been the first to domesticate horses. Page A11
national
CALIFORNIA JUSTICES CONSIDER
Ban on Same-Sex Marriages
In a bruising hearing, California's Supreme Court justices seemed ready to uphold the state's ban on same-sex marriage, which was passed by voters in November. But the justices also appeared reluctant to undo the 18,000 marriages conducted before the ban was passed. PAGE A12
MOVIE TESTS CAMPAIGN LAW
As Hillary Rodham Clinton settles in as secretary of state, the Supreme Court will have a look at ''Hillary: The Movie,'' a scathingly hostile look at Mrs. Clinton in the tradition of ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' from Michael Moore. The case to be argued will require the court to confront a new genre with old roots: the slashing political documentary. PAGE A12
A Symbolic Hat Is Returned A12
REVIVING A MUSICAL PAST
For 72 years, Wheeling, W. Va., was widely known as the home to Jamboree USA, the nation's second longest-running live country music show. And now that Jamboree USA is only a memory -- it was shut down in 2005 -- officials think all the history wrapped up in the their town might help get its struggling downtown going again. PAGE A13
HOPEFUL APPROACH FOR PARKINSON'S
Researchers have converted skin cells from people with Parkinson's disease into the general type of neuron that is destroyed in the disease. In principle, this would allow the brain cells that are lost in Parkinson's to be replaced with cells that carried no risk of immune rejection, since they are the patient's own. PAGE A13
Republicans Delay Fiscal Bill A14
STEPS TO OVERHAUL HEALTH CARE
President Obama vowed to end a long stalemate on overhauling the health care system, and he indicated for the first time that he would not insist on all the details of the proposal on which he campaigned. PAGE A16
WEIGHING IN ON NUCLEAR WASTE
President Obama's proposed budget cuts off most money for the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste project, a decision that fulfills a campaign promise and wins him political points in Nevada. But it also raises new questions about what to do with radioactive waste from the nation's nuclear power plants. PAGE A17
obituaries
GEORGE MCAFEE, 90
As a Hall of Fame two-way threat, he carried the football, passed it, kicked and punted it, returned kicks and punts, and roamed the defensive backfield for the mighty Chicago Bears teams of the 1940s. PAGE B9
New York
COURT RULING IS A VICTORY
For Tenants of Stuyvesant Town
The Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court ruled that the company that owns the buildings wrongfully raised rents and deregulated thousands of apartments after receiving tax breaks. The decision could ultimately cost the landlord, Tishman Speyer Properties, $200 million. Page A20
DINING'S HARSHEST CRITIC YET
There have been 12 restaurants at 206 East 63rd Street since the 1970's. The most recent, Smokin Q, lasted barely a year. Each preceding establishment endured a laundry list of hardships until they finally closed. The location's seemingly cursed status was made all the more puzzling by thriving restaurants nearby. To the next lease holder: before the chef, hire an exorcist. Page A20
Business
AUDITORS DOUBTFUL ON G.M.,
As Company Seeks Further Aid
Auditors for General Motors admitted that its future was in substantial doubt, adding more gravity to already-plunging stocks. G.M. is seeking up to $30 billion in aid in addition to the $13 billion it's already received. But even the additional funds may not prevent it from going bankrupt. Page B1
REGULATORS IN HOT SEAT ON A.I.G.
At a Senate hearing, state and federal regulators came under pressure over their role in the near-collapse of the American International Group. It devolved at times into an elaborate game, as the Senate Banking Committee leaned on regulators to admit at least some culpability in the liquidity crisis that brought A.I.G. to its knees. Page B1
High & Low
The Deal That Started It All
The merger between HSBC, the London-based international bank and Household International was the deal that blessed the concept of lending to subprime customers. What would be different about the current economic climate and HSBC, Floyd Norris asks, if they had walked away from that deal before it was finalized in 2003? Page B1
JAPAN BELIES INVESTING LAW
Japan's languishing stock market may represent a bitter counterpoint to the long-held maxim that, over the long run, stocks are always the best investment. Page B1
WAL-MART RISES ABOVE RETAIL SLIDE
Wal-Mart led retailers in sales, with a 5.1 percent increase in February, but most retailers posted bleak results. Page B3
sports
YANKEES DECIDE AGAINST SURGERY
For Rodriguez's Hip Injury
Alex Rodriguez will try to play with a labrum tear of his right hip, the Yankees said. It is not yet clear if the condition requires surgery at all, which would sideline Rodriguez for four months. Instead, the Yankees have decided to limit his spring training and see if he can get through the season without an operation. Page B10
Weekend
The TV Watch
'Late Night With Jimmy Fallon'
In Its First Few Days
The new ''Late Night'' host Jimmy Fallon seemed more confident by his show's third night. Most of his skits and routines, however, seemed written for the Web, not for broadcast, Alessandra Stanley writes. PAGE C1
Film Review
Cold War Superhero (and Friends)
''Watchmen,'' Zack Snyder's grisly excursion into comic-book mythology, is based on the graphic novel by Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons. Published by DC in 1986 and '87, the book was very much a product of its moment, A. O. Scott writes. PAGE C1
'Breaking Bad' Begins Second Season C1
'Max' by Batsheva Dance Company C3
Jan Troell's 'Everlasting Moments' C10
Art Reviews
The Art Fair in a Poor Market
The Armory Show, New York's flagship contemporary art fair, has always been about a barometer for the health of the art market. This year's edition, which runs through Sunday, has two substantial supplements: the Armory Modern, comprising some 60 galleries, and a sub-7,000 Dow, Holland Cotter writes. PAGE C21
MISSING CHAPTERS IN AMERICAN ART
The story of American painting as told by most museums misses or marginalizes half the tale: the naive painting that flourished during the late 18th and 19th centuries. The National Gallery of Art in Washington reopened its American painting section after two years, and the seeds of a new narrative are there, Roberta Smith writes. PAGE C21
'Cezanne and Beyond' C21
Books of The Times
'The Letters of Samuel Beckett'
At nearly 800 pages, Volume 1 makes a mighty thunk on the coffee table. Reviewed by Dwight Garner. C21
Inside Art by Carol Vogel C22
Escapes
IN LAS VEGAS, THE SKYSCRAPER
Has Become the Limit
The Las Vegas Strip was marketed as a coveted spot for homebuyers, with a cachet rivaling that of South Beach or Park Avenue. But it hasn't worked out that way. It isn't clear if the economy is responsible, or if the sales pitch of living in Las Vegas simply outshone the reality. Page D1
LISTEN TO CAPE COD'S SILENCE
The real virtue of a Cape Cod winter is not what there is, but what there is not: no traffic-choked roads, no throngs of beachgoers and no noise. Page D1
COLORADO'S BACKCOUNTRY SKI HUTS
Backcountry skiing in Colorado is demanding, with runs that are both primal and serene, Ethan Todras-Whitehill writes. But with the 10th Mountain Division hut system that runs between Vail and Aspen, trails have at least become more accessible. Those who make reservations far enough in advance can enjoy some of the finest powder never reached by chair-lift, and the recovery spots along the way. Page D1
Your Second Home
Illness Away From Your Home
Being sick is bad enough during the daily routine. And it can be even worse in someplace unfamiliar. Whether shopping for a second home or already in one, it is vital to be aware of all the care options available in the area. Page D2
Havens
Colorado Town Opens Up
Until the early 1990s, Granby, Colo., had kept a relatively low profile. It had plenty of recreational amenities like golf courses and Alpine and Nordic ski areas, but not many available second homes. With the construction of several subdivisions, the town has become a prime location for a second home, especially for residents of Denver. Page D3
Living Here
The Search for the Perfect View
It took Michelle Cheatham, an interior designer and owner of a catering company, almost two years to find a home to buy. She was absolutely set on having a place that overlooked a vineyard. Now she says that the view makes her feel tranquil and centered. Here are a selection of homes with views of vineyards from Kelowna, B.C., to Crozet, Va. Page D7
American Journeys
Get Past Those Gators in Florida
Gainesville, Fla., might be best known for its Gators -- the college football team, not the toothy terror of the swamp -- but there are other reasons to visit. Tour the former house of a Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist, or visit a Columbian Mammoth at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Page D8
Editorial
HELPING THE HOUSE POOR
President Obama's anti-foreclosure plan, introduced on Wednesday, is better than anything tried by the Bush administration. But it is at best one step forward and, unfortunately, may prove fundamentally flawed. Page A22
FRESH START IN THE MIDDLE EAST
On her first Middle East trip as secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton made it clear that America's compelling interest lies in a two-state solution anchored by a broad regional peace. She advanced that interest by announcing diplomatic re-engagement with Syria and strong American support for the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas. Page A22
A SUPREME COURT SHOWDOWN
By announcing criminal charges last week against Ali al-Marri, the Obama administration took an important step toward bringing the government's terrorism-fighting efforts within the rule of law. The move puts the government's claims against Mr. Marri where they belonged -- a civilian court where the government will be required to present its evidence and he can answer. Page A22
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
When it comes to dealing with banks, the Obama administration is dithering. And the result could be an economy that sputters along for a very long time. Page A23
DAVID BROOKS
The Obama administration argues that the budget isn't some grand transformation of America, that it's not the Russian Revolution. Page A23
SOMETHING WILD
The brutal attack by a pet chimpanzee last month raises an important question about the way humans regard their close primate cousins. Charles Siebert, the author of a forthcoming book about chimps in captivity, asks in an Op-Ed article: Why have we always had such trouble seeing chimps as they really are? Page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); MARRIAGE LAW (83%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ELECTION LAW (76%); LITIGATION (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RELIGION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); ARRESTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); ARREST WARRANTS (63%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); MARRIAGE (62%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SRI LANKA (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011



230 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Numbers Fall Slightly, but Stay High

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The number of new jobless claims and the total number of people receiving unemployment benefits both dropped more than expected last week, though they remained elevated and were unlikely to fall substantially in the coming months. 
 Few economists expect a turnaround in the battered labor market anytime soon, with companies laying off thousands of workers weekly.
 Still, the tally of initial requests for unemployment benefits fell to 639,000 from the previous week's 670,000, the Labor Department said Thursday. Analysts expected a smaller drop to 650,000.
 In separate reports, factory orders fell for a record sixth consecutive month in January, the Commerce Department said, as demand fell over a wide cross section of industries. And worker productivity fell more steeply than previously estimated in the fourth quarter, the Labor Department said.
 The stock markets, already trading lower, extended their decline after the factory orders report and the major stock indexes each fell by about 4 percent as investors turned to fixed income instruments. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note surged, gaining 1 13/32, to 99 15/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 2.81 percent, down from 2.97 percent late Wednesday.
 The 670,000 new jobless claims reported a week ago represented a new high for the current recession and the most since October 1982, when the economy was emerging from a severe downturn, though the labor force has grown by half since then.
 The number of people claiming benefits for more than a week fell slightly to 5.1 million in the latest report from 5.12 million, after rising to record highs for five straight weeks. Analysts expected 5.15 million continuing claims.
 But an additional 1.4 million people were receiving benefits under an extended unemployment compensation program that Congress approved last year. That tally was as of Feb. 14, the latest data available, and brings the total jobless benefit rolls to about 6.5 million. That was up from 2.8 million a year ago.
 The four-week average of new claims, which smoothes out fluctuations, increased 2,000 to 641,750, the highest since October 1982.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said Thursday that worker productivity slid more than expected in the fourth quarter, while wage pressures shot up at the fastest clip in two years.
 The department said productivity, the amount of output per hour of work, fell at an annual rate of 0.4 percent in the October-December period. At the same time, unit labor costs surged 5.7 percent.
 The Commerce Department said demand for manufactured products dropped 1.9 percent in January. That was smaller than the 3.5 percent drop that economists had expected but it was still the sixth consecutive monthly fall, a record number of declines for a data series that goes back to 1992.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Factory Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Charts detail line and bar graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); STATISTICS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



231 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Slump Tests Faith In the Resilience of Stocks

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
When Japan's stock market took a nose dive in 1990, analysts told Shizuko Kitamura to take the long view, just invest consistently and stoically and wait for share prices to recover.
 Almost two decades later, she is still waiting.
 For those seeking solace in the conventional wisdom that stocks rise in the long run, consider this: 20 years after Japan's stock market peaked, share prices are still less than 25 percent of their top values. 
 ''I can't tell you how many times analysts said: 'We won't go any lower than this. This is the absolute bottom,' '' said Ms. Kitamura, a retired researcher in Tokyo who started investing just three years before the bottom fell out. She lost a year's worth of pay in the fall. 
 ''Soon, I just stopped believing the analysts,'' she said. ''I think investing in stocks is like gambling. You'll probably lose.''
 As they say in the investment business, past results are no predictor of future performance -- thank goodness -- and comparing countries and periods can be tricky. But Japan's long languid stock market offers a scary example to challenge the belief that over the long run, stocks are always the best investment. 
 Over the last three or four decades, that premise became the guiding principle of millions of ordinary Americans' savings and retirement planning. It revolutionized America's relationship to stocks, making them no longer the province of millionaires and traders. 
 But now that belief is being called increasingly into question. The Dow Jones industrial average has tumbled faster than the Nikkei, Japan's benchmark 225 stock average, losing 50 percent of its value between its peak in October 2007 and late February. It took the Nikkei 10 months longer to halve its value in the early 1990s.
 The good news for investors is that Japan's nearly two-decade slump is an anomaly among major stock markets. After the 1987 crash, global investors recouped their losses in two years, according to the Credit Suisse Global Investment Returns Yearbook. After the 1973-74 bear market, London shares, which had fallen 73 percent in real terms, regained their previous highs in less than three years.
 The longest bear market in a major economy occurred after the Wall Street crash of 1929. Stocks did not reach their pre-Depression levels until 1954. American stocks also stagnated in the 1970s when the oil crisis, recession and financial instability caused global share prices to fall. 
 The bad news for investors, and everyone else, is that the real economy shows no sign of improving. In surveys, corporate managers around the world are predicting increasing unemployment. And many economists say that in a global downturn like the current one, no market seems able to rescue the others, for example, by buying their exports. Everyone is hanging together.
 To be sure, Japan's stock market has many problems that are particular to Japan. To name two: Japan took a decade to rid its banks of bad loans, hurting confidence in the market; and Japanese companies performed poorly on return on equity, a measure of how effectively shareholders' money is used to develop a company or increase its profits.
 Specialists say Japanese companies also disdain concentrating on maximizing shareholder value. Japanese managers have tended to focus on pleasing employees, or staying true to corporate values rather than seeking aggressively to increase profits or pay dividends. 
 Nonetheless, Japan's experience explains how a modern stock market can atrophy. And many of the mistakes that the Japanese made could befall markets in New York, London and Frankfurt. For instance, Japan's stimulus plans proved too timid to break its prolonged economic slump, which led households to hoard cash and invest less, in stocks or anything else.
 The Japanese had reason to be risk-averse. By 2002, 1.5 quadrillion yen of wealth had been destroyed, between the stock market and falling land prices, the rough equivalent of three times the country's gross domestic product, according to the Nomura Research Institute.
 ''The Japanese household developed a remarkable preference for cash,'' said Richard Jerram, chief economist at Macquarie Securities in Tokyo. And when Japanese households park their money in safe, low-yielding bank accounts, it does not reach the stock market. 
 ''That's happening in the States to a certain extent,'' Mr. Jerram said, with wary investors fleeing equity markets for safer investments, like Treasuries and gold. 
 In Japan, modest gains in share prices since 2003 were largely driven by overseas investors. But even those investors have been leaving the market in droves during the global credit crisis. Shares on Tokyo's broader Topix index now trade below their book value, meaning prices are less than what the companies would fetch if they were dissolved and their parts sold.
 ''Most Japanese no longer see the stock market as an investment option,'' said Kiyoshi Kimura, president of the Japan Association for Individual Investors and a longtime investor. ''All you have left are a handful of people with a get-rich-quick mentality and courage to play a declining market.''
 Hisao Oku, a retired Tokyo business owner who has invested in Japanese stocks for four decades, said the last 20 years were ''a roller-coaster ride.'' His advice during severe bear markets: Sit out the market for a while. Keep cash handy. And most of all, adjust expectations.
 ''I've learned in my 40 years that it's the lucky few who manage to find happiness in the stock market,'' Mr. Oku said. ''For the rest of us, it's like chasing a mirage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prices on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Thursday. Japan's experience demonstrates how a modern market can atrophy and may hold lessons for markets in New York, London and Frankfurt.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU YAMANAKA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B4) CHART: Lost Decades: The Dow is at its lowest in 12 years, but the Nikkei 225 is at levels last seen nearly 27 years ago. While some of the reasons for Japan's market malaise are particular to that country, others may be present in the United States today.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (61%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



232 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Quiet Layoffs Sting Workers Without Notice

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
With the economy weakening, chief executives want Wall Street to see them as tough cost-cutters who are not afraid to lay off workers. But plenty of job cuts are not trumpeted in news releases. 
 Big companies also routinely carry out scattered layoffs that are small enough to stay under the radar, contributing to an unemployment rate that keeps climbing, as Friday's monthly jobs report is likely to show.
 I.B.M. is one such company. It reported surprisingly strong quarterly profits in January, and in an e-mail message to employees, Samuel J. Palmisano, the chief executive, said that while other companies were cutting back, his would not. ''Most importantly, we will invest in our people,'' he wrote.
 But the next day, more than 1,400 employees in I.B.M.'s sales and distribution division in the United States and Canada were told their jobs would be eliminated in a month. More cuts followed, and over all, I.B.M. has told about 4,600 North American employees in recent weeks that their jobs are vanishing. 
 J. Randall MacDonald, I.B.M.'s senior vice president for human resources, said it was routine for the company to lay off some employees while hiring elsewhere. ''This business is in a constant state of transformation,'' he said. ''I think of this as business as usual for us.'' 
 These unannounced cuts, labor experts say, raise issues of disclosure and the treatment of workers. They argue that the federal law requiring warning of certain kinds of layoffs should be overhauled to cover smaller job cuts. That would give people more time to seek new jobs, career counseling and retraining. 
 ''The twin goals are transparency and decency,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''The issue becomes all the more pressing in this downward economic spiral.''
 The notification law, known as the WARN Act, is a legacy of an era when the economy was more dependent on manufacturers and legislators were concerned about blue-collar workers being locked out of their factory. That kind of shutdown is hard to hide, while white-collar layoffs spread across many locations are not.
 The WARN Act requires 60 days' notice, but the events that require notification are site-specific -- a plant closing, a layoff of 500 or more people at one location, or a cut of at least one-third of the work force at a site.
 If notification is not required, the standard practice at large companies is to give 30 days' notice before a layoff. Some states have passed their own WARN Acts to cover more layoffs. California, for example, now requires a WARN notice when a company cuts 50 or more workers in one place. Last month, New York enacted a law requiring 90 days' notice when laying off 250 or more workers at a site.
 Companies sometimes have good reason for dismissing workers quietly. Depending on how the businesses want to portray themselves to investors and the public, layoffs might not fit the message. 
 Most companies today, of course, are not hesitating to make layoff announcements. Managers are straining to demonstrate that they are taking forceful action on expenses, the one front where they have some control amid economic turmoil and uncertainty. 
 Two days after I.B.M.'s report, Microsoft said that its quarterly profits were disappointing. It declared it would cut annual operating expenses by $1.5 billion, lopping off up to 5,000 jobs over the next 18 months, including 1,400 immediately.
 Labor experts advise taking near-term cuts seriously and being skeptical about intentions several months down the road. ''The most effective job-cutting is done on a short timetable, clearly explained inside and outside the company, and grafted tightly to the business strategy,'' said Peter Cappelli, director of the Center for Human Resources at the University of Pennsylvania. ''Plans for cuts 12 and 18 months in the future are mostly irrelevant, even if the companies are sincere at the time.''
 At I.B.M., the layoffs are coming swiftly, if with less disclosure. The estimate of 4,600 job cuts comes from adding up the itemized headcounts in information packages given to employees in each of the businesses. Some of them were supplied by Alliance@IBM, a small but active unit of the Communications Workers of America union, and some by I.B.M. workers directly.
 The cutbacks surfaced only because of their size and timing, with word spread through blogs, employee message boards and the union group. 
 In its financial statements, I.B.M. does report the cost of severance payments and outplacement counseling for layoffs -- about $400 million annually in the last five years -- but not head counts.
 I.B.M. says it remains the largest high-tech employer in the nation, with 115,000 workers. The company is adding jobs as well as slicing, in a cycle that it says has helped make it increasingly global and successful as it shifts toward higher-profit software and technology services businesses. 
 In January, for example, it said it would open a call center in Dubuque, Iowa, for corporate customers. It is to employ up to 1,300 people. And Mr. MacDonald, the human resources executive, said I.B.M. was hiring analysts and engineers to work on Internet software, health technology and smart electrical grids.
 But I.B.M.'s American employment has declined steadily, down to 29 percent of its worldwide payroll of 398,445 at the end of 2008. The cuts have also come sooner and deeper in North America this year than in recent years.
 As part of a government filing last week, I.B.M. said its work force in Brazil, Russia, India and China had climbed to 113,000. These are markets with faster growth than the United States, and less expensive skilled labor. 
 In interviews, I.B.M. workers whose jobs are being eliminated were mainly chagrined that the undisclosed cuts, and the timing, seemed to contradict the company's public statements. 
 Rick Clark, 50, an engineer in East Fishkill, N.Y., had worked for I.B.M. for 11 years. He said he was disappointed in I.B.M. this time because the job cuts were deep and spread across so many businesses and came at a time when I.B.M. has been proclaiming its success. ''I do think I.B.M., like other companies, has used this recession as an excuse to lay people off,'' he said.
 I.B.M. has had to issue two WARN Act notices recently under the tighter state laws of California and New York. The company is cutting 141 jobs in San Jose and 295 jobs in East Fishkill. 
 To strengthen the federal layoff-warning law, labor experts make a few suggestions. They include adopting the California threshold of 50 people let go at one site, or a national standard, requiring 60 days' notice if a company lays off at least 1,000 workers nationally or at least 10 percent of its work force. 
 Some labor experts would also like to see a requirement for large corporations to report employment country by country annually. 
 ''All our multinational companies are increasingly less American, except when they are asking for tax breaks and increased government spending in their industries,'' said Ross Eisenbrey, a labor researcher at the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research organization in Washington. ''Knowing where their employment really is would be useful information for policymaking.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rick Clark, 50, a longtime I.B.M. engineer whose job in East Fishkill, N.Y., was eliminated.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN ABRAMSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) CHART: Shifting Work Force: I.B.M.'s foreign employment has risen while its United States labor force has been cut back.(Source: I.B.M.) Chart details bar graphs. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CLOSINGS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



233 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Plunge on Worries Over Financial Sector

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Wall Street tumbled to new lows on Thursday and shares of Citigroup, once the largest bank on Wall Street, dropped briefly below $1 as deepening worries about the financial sector and General Motors sent investors running for cover. 
 Shares of Bank of America fell more than 11 percent while Citigroup skidded 9 percent to close at $1.02 a share. JPMorgan Chase was down 14 percent, and Wells Fargo lost 17 percent. 
 ''It's just a continuing self-destructive market where even the slightest good news is considered negative,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners. ''No one is taking a backseat approach. Everyone is just selling.'' 
 The broad sell-off dragged all sectors of the market lower, and peeled back the gains from a one-day rally on Wednesday that had broken a five-day losing streak on Wall Street. 
 Producers of basic materials like metals and chemicals fell back on Thursday after rising a day earlier on speculation about China's stimulus spending. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 6,594.44, down 281.40, or 4.1 percent -- its lowest close since April 15, 1997. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 4.25 percent, to its lowest close since September 1996, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq index was off 4 percent. 
 Stocks in Europe also were also off sharply.
 Retailers in the United States began releasing February sales results on Thursday morning, more evidence that shoppers had sharply reduced their spending. But the numbers were not as bad as January, and one retailer, Wal-Mart easily topped expectations.
 Wal-Mart Stores said February sales rose 5.1 percent, while analysts by Thomson Reuters had expected a 2.4 percent increase. Its stock was up more than 2 percent in late trading.
 And the automaker, General Motors, which has borrowed $13.4 billion from the federal government and is seeking billions more, acknowledged in its annual report on Thursday that its survival was in ''substantial doubt.'' Auto stocks sank across the board while shares of General Motors tumbled 15 percent to $1.87.
 ''Our recurring losses from operations, stockholders' deficit and inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations and sustain our operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern,'' G.M. said in the filing.
 This week, the major automakers reported that their February sales fell more than 40 percent from the previous year as consumers slashed their spending in the face of a rapidly worsening economy. 
 ''You really do wonder how they're going to keep going with such pathetic sales and massive fields of unsold cars, and what's going to happen,'' said Rob Carnell, chief international economist at ING Financial Markets. ''Just kind of seems obvious that this industry has to shrink.''
 The Labor Department reported that productivity slumped and wage costs surged in the fourth quarter of 2008. Productivity, defined as output per hour of work, fell at an annual rate of 0.4 percent in the October-December period, even as unit labor costs rose 5.7 percent.
 The dollar gained as the European banks would cut rates, making dollar assets relatively more attractive. The Bank of England cut its main rate target by half a percent to 0.5 percent. The European Central Bank cut its main rate to 1.5 percent from 2 percent.
 The Federal Reserve has already cut its main rate target to 0.25 percent, and as European rates drop, returns on short-term investments there become relatively less desirable for money managers. The Bank of Japan, the world's other major central bank, has also set its main market rate near zero in hope of restoring the economy to health.
 In Europe, the Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, closed 4.7 percent lower, while the FTSE 100 index in London dropped 3.2 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris was down 4 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt fell 5 percent.
 Asian markets were mostly higher. The Tokyo benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average gained 2 percent, while the S&P/ASX 200 in Sydney rose 0.7 percent.
 The Shanghai Stock Exchange composite index rose 1 percent. But the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong lost 1 percent.
 The euro fell to $1.2537 from $1.2661 late Wednesday in New York, while the British pound fell to $1.4113 from $1.4195. The dollar edged down to 98.06 yen from 99.16 and rose to 1.1712 Swiss francs from 1.1676.
 Crude oil futures for April delivery fell $1.77, to $43.61 a barrel in New York trading.
 Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, slipped 16-hundredths of a percentage point to 2.81 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); RETAIL SALES (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); CHEMICALS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CASH FLOW (70%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (66%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); ING GROEP NV (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (66%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (66%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



234 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin: Conviction In 3 Killings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A man faces life in prison after he pleaded no contest to gunning down three teenage swimmers near the Wisconsin-Michigan state line last summer. The man, Scott J. Johnson, 38, of Kingsford, Mich., withdrew his not guilty pleas and pleaded no contest to 10 felonies. Judge Tim A. Duket of Marinette County Circuit Court convicted Mr. Johnson of three counts of first-degree intentional homicide, six counts of attempted first-degree intentional homicide and one count of second-degree sexual assault. Mr. Johnson's plea spares him a jury trial. He faces a mandatory sentence of life in prison. He dropped an insanity plea in January, and reports filed by court-appointed psychologists have not been released. Prosecutors said Mr. Johnson, an unemployed Army veteran and divorced father of two, fired at a group of swimmers at the Menominee River in July, killing Tiffany Pohlson, 17, of Vulcan, Mich., and Anthony Spigarelli, 18, and Bryan Mort, 19, both of Iron Mountain, Mich. Another man, Daniel L. Gordon, 21, of Kingsford, Mich., was injured. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); JURY TRIALS (88%); SHOOTINGS (88%); SENTENCING (88%); FELONIES (88%); INSANITY DEFENSE (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



235 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Auditors Doubtful About G.M.

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Auditors for General Motors, in one of the bleakest assessments yet of the automaker's prospects, said on Thursday that G.M.'s survival was in ''substantial doubt'' even if it received all $30 billion it hoped to borrow from the federal government.
 The report by the auditing firm, Deloitte & Touche, also raised the possibility that G.M. would have to liquidate its operations if its loan request were denied. 
 G.M.'s acknowledgment that it is perilously close to bankruptcy -- its auditors made a similar announcement last fall -- was not unexpected. But the report stirred new fears among investors, who drove down G.M.'s shares by 15 percent, to $1.86.
 Deloitte & Touche laid out numerous chains of events that could result in a bankruptcy filing by G.M. The company, which lost $30.9 billion last year and has received $13.4 billion in government loans since December, made the disclosure in its annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 The announcement does not mean bankruptcy is imminent. But it underscores how difficult it will be for G.M. to successfully complete the restructuring plan that it filed with the Treasury Department last month.
 ''Our recurring losses from operations, stockholders' deficit and inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations and sustain our operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern,'' G.M. said in its filing.
 G.M., which is seeking an additional $16.6 billion in federal loans, must prove its viability to President Obama's auto task force by a March 31 deadline.
 Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said the task force was well aware of G.M.'s precarious state before the auditors' report was released.
 ''Obviously, I don't think it comes as a big surprise to many that the auto industry is in crisis,'' Mr. Gibbs said Thursday. 
 The auditors' warning, known as a ''going concern'' notice, put G.M. in violation of several loan covenants, but the company said it was able to obtain waivers from its creditors. The loans could be recalled, though, if the Treasury Department did not approve G.M.'s restructuring plan. 
 In that case, the government also could demand immediate repayment of the money it had already lent to G.M., which G.M. said in the filing it would be unable to do.
 As the economic recession drags so many companies toward insolvency, auditors are issuing going concern notices more frequently. About 60 percent of the companies involved end up filing for bankruptcy protection, said Jane F. Mutchler, an accounting professor at Georgia State University's Robinson College of Business.
 ''In the case of General Motors, a lot of significant changes need to take place,'' Ms. Mutchler said. ''The auditor is supposed to look ahead one year, so they're looking ahead one year and saying this doesn't look good.''
 G.M. said it could be forced to file for bankruptcy protection in a number of situations, including its failure to receive more federal aid or to exact concessions from bondholders and the United Automobile Workers union, or any further deterioration of an already dismal new-vehicle market in the United States. 
 It also said its future depended on ''consumers purchasing our products in substantially higher volumes.'' G.M.'s sales were down 51 percent in January and February compared with the first two months of 2008.
 The word ''bankruptcy'' appears in G.M.'s annual report 126 times. Still, G.M. insisted that it could be viable.
 ''Once global automotive sales recover and G.M.'s restructuring actions generate the anticipated savings and benefits, the company is expected to again be able to fund its own operating requirements,'' the company said in a statement. ''The auditor's opinion has no impact on the aggressive actions we are taking to restructure our business for long-term viability.''
 G.M. has until the end of this month to reach deals with the U.A.W. and its bondholders and to show President Obama's auto task force that it is making progress on its restructuring plan. The auditors' warning could help G.M. persuade those groups to reach an agreement quickly.
 In its filing, G.M. said it was seeking assistance from several foreign governments, including Britain, Canada, Germany, Sweden and Thailand. It said its viability plan assumed $6 billion in financing from outside the United States ''plus amounts to satisfy certain legal requirements.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A showroom sits empty at the San Rafael Chevrolet Saab Hummer Hyundai dealership in California, now closed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)
 Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of General Motors, last month in downtown Detroit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (83%); AUDITS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (93%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



236 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Executive Leaves U.S. Olympic Committee

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

 BODY:
Jim Scherr, the chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee, resigned unexpectedly Thursday, leaving the organization amid a financial crisis and at a crucial time for Chicago's bid for the 2016 Games. 
 Scherr, who did not return e-mail messages or phone calls, had been in charge since 2003, when he held the title of interim chief executive. He shed the interim tag two years later.
 On March 31, Scherr will be replaced on an interim basis by Stephanie A. Streeter, a business executive who has been a member of the committee's board of directors since 2004.
 Larry Probst, chairman of the organization's board, said during a teleconference that the decision for Scherr to step down was made after a board meeting in Washington on Tuesday. He said the idea to replace Scherr with Streeter, a former basketball player at Stanford, was ''mutually discussed and agreed to,'' but he would not say who first raised the subject.
 Times have changed since Scherr took over, with the economy and the Internet dramatically changing the landscape, Probst said, adding that the organization needed someone new to tackle those issues.
 ''She's a world-class business executive with highly developed C.E.O. skills,'' he said of Streeter, after praising Scherr for his work with the committee.
 Scherr, a 1988 Olympian in freestyle wrestling, started at the U.S.O.C. in 2000 as chief of sport performance. Later, as acting chief executive, he helped rebuild the committee's reputation in the wake of the Salt Lake City bid scandal. He also stabilized the organization after years of infighting.
 Under his watch, the United States won 110 medals at the Beijing Games last summer, the most medals won by the delegation in an Olympics without a boycott. The organization also did not have to borrow money at the beginning of this four-year cycle, as it had in at least the past two decades.
 ''As I depart the organization, I do so with gratitude for this opportunity, and I remain committed to doing all I can in support of America's athletes, the National Governing Bodies and the U.S.O.C.,'' Scherr said in a statement issued by the committee.
 Scherr announced Tuesday that a faltering economy had forced the Olympic committee to make cuts in its work force by up to 15 percent (about 64 people) as part of reducing this year's $142 million budget. Those cuts would save $7.1 million.
 Streeter will face those tough issues, as well as the impending visit of the International Olympic Committee's evaluation commission to Chicago and its proposed Olympic sites. The commission is scheduled to visit in early April.
 Probst said there was no plan to conduct a search for a permanent chief executive. For now, Streeter will work from home in Wisconsin, where she has 17-month-old twins.
 ''I am excited and honored to be placed in this position at such a critical time for the organization,'' Streeter said.
 Streeter, 51, serves on the board of several corporations, including the Green Bay Packers. In 2007, she stepped down as chairwoman, president and chief executive of Banta Corporation, a printing and supply chain company.
 She said her experience could help the governing bodies of Olympic sports get through ''the most challenging economic times'' they have ever faced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); LABOR FORCE (67%); WRESTLING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



237 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Retail Slide Continues; Wal-Mart Is Exception

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
The nation's retailers reported sales results for February that were as bleak as those of recent months -- yet they were also slightly better than Wall Street was expecting, and a tentative indicator that economic deceleration may be slowing.
 Retailing analysts cautioned against reading too much into the February figures, predicting that coming months would continue to be difficult for stores as consumers settled into more austere lifestyles. 
 Wal-Mart Stores once again proved itself the chain best able to capitalize on the new frugality. At stores open at least a year, a barometer of retail health known as same-store sales, Wal-Mart exceeded analysts' expectations, reporting a 5.1 percent sales increase in February (not including fuel), compared with a 2.7 percent increase for the period a year ago. 
 The company said its strong sales were driven by its grocery, health and wellness and entertainment categories, and it noted that more customers were streaming through its doors. 
 ''We believe falling gas prices significantly boosted household disposable income in February and therefore allowed for both more trips and more spending toward discretionary categories,'' Wal-Mart said in announcing its results. 
 On the heels of that news, Wal-Mart said Thursday that it would increase its annual dividend 15 percent, to $1.09 a share, up from the 95 cents a share paid during its last fiscal year.
 ''The strength of our operations and the resulting strong financial position allow us to increase our dividend payout to shareholders again this year,'' Michael T. Duke, Wal-Mart's president and chief executive, said in a statement. 
 Thanks mainly to Wal-Mart's results, the retail industry reported a decline of only 0.1 percent in February compared with a year ago, according to the Goldman Sachs retail composite index.
 Another report, from the research firm Retail Metrics, showed a 0.7 percent sales gain in February compared with the period a year ago, and said that without Wal-Mart, retail sales would have fallen 4.1 percent.
 As Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics, noted in the report Thursday morning, ''it's still ugly,'' but Wal-Mart ''dressed up'' the month nicely. 
 Whatever the statistics, they were an improvement from recent months when the industry reported sales declines of 2 to 3 percent.
 ''Flat is the new up,'' said Bill Dreher, senior retailing analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities. ''If you're only doing a zero percent increase, congratulations. You're a winner.'' 
 Michael P. Niemira, chief economist and director of research for the International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry group, said in a statement Thursday that ''the last four months show an increasingly less negative performance for the industry.'' 
 The council said same-store sales for some 35 chains it looks at were down 0.1 percent in February compared with a year ago.
 Retailers and industry analysts said that in February stores got a lift from pent-up consumer demand, better weather and some new spring merchandise. 
 Still, most stores suffered sales declines. And analysts pointed out that their expectations for February sales had been low -- so beating them was no great feat. 
 ''Sales trends are not as bad as they were in January but they're kind of at a level where they were in October, November, December,'' said Jeff Black, a director at Barclays Capital Equity Research. ''We haven't improved off of that base.''
 The worst sales declines came from Abercrombie & Fitch, the teenage-apparel retailer, which posted a whopping 30 percent drop.
 Indeed, clothing retailers continue to be hurt the most, especially at the high end. Same-store sales sank 26 percent at Saks, 24.2 percent at Neiman Marcus stores and Bergdorf Goodman and 15.4 percent at Nordstrom, compared with a year ago. 
 Other department and big-box stores also had declines, including Dillard's (down 13 percent), Stein Mart (down 12.2 percent), J. C. Penney (down 8.8 percent) and Macy's and Bon-Ton Stores (both down 8.5 percent). 
 Sales fell at mall chains too, dropping 13.4 percent at Zumiez, 12 percent at Gap, 7 percent at both American Eagle Outfitters and Limited Brands and 6.6 percent at Wet Seal.
 Over all, discount stores were the only retail categories that had sales increases in February, according to analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
 Same-store sales at BJ's Wholesale Club increased 8.2 percent, not including fuel. The company said customer traffic increased about 7 percent and the average transaction amount ticked up about 1 percent. Sales of food increased 10 percent. 
 Sales at Costco were up 5 percent, not including fuel.
 Ross Stores, the discount clothing chain, had a 1 percent sales increase compared with the period a year ago. Michael A. Balmuth, the chief executive, said in a news release that Ross's ''name-brand bargains'' drove its better-than-expected sales. 
 Not every discount chain had sales growth, though the declines in this category were far less than in others. Sales were flat at TJX, which owns TJMaxx stores, and at Children's Place, which sells affordable children's clothing. At Kohl's, sales fell 1.6 percent.
 At Target, sales continued to lag behind rival Wal-Mart, falling 4.1 percent. Gregg W. Steinhafel, the company's president and chief executive, said in a statement that Target's results ''continue to reflect the significant economic challenges facing our guests.'' 
 As in previous months, a few mall retailers that cater to teenagers posted impressive double-digit increases. In fact, Aeropostale said it enjoyed record sales in February, reporting an 11 percent increase. Same-store sales at Buckle increased 21 percent. Sales at the niche retailer Hot Topic jumped 10.8 percent, much more than analysts expected. 
 But even though several retailers met or exceeded their management's expectations, investors were largely unimpressed, sending shares of some chains down 10 percent on Thursday. 
 As Mr. Dreher put it: ''The market's losing patience with this continued underperformance.'' 
 The International Council of Shopping Centers expects March same-store sales to be flat or to decline 1 percent on a year-over-year basis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wal-Mart Stores' 5.1 percent sales increase in February exceeded analysts' expectations. Above, a store in Secaucus, N.J.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Retail Sales in February: GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
 SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended Feb. 28, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports.) Charts detail bar and line graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DIVIDENDS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (51%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL T DUKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



238 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: A City Sees Its Past, and Maybe Future, in a Theater

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

DATELINE: WHEELING, W.Va. 

 BODY:
For 72 years this Rust Belt city was widely known for something besides the steel and glass that was its economic foundation. It was home to Jamboree USA, the nation's second-longest-running live country music show, beamed from WWVA's powerful 50,000-watt AM radio station primarily to the northeastern United States and Canada.
 And for about half of Jamboree's life, until it was shut down in 2005, the show was broadcast from the Capitol Music Hall here. 
 While the steel and glass plants are long gone, and Jamboree USA is only a memory, Wheeling officials think all the history wrapped up in the Capitol Music Hall might help get the city's struggling downtown going again.
 ''It's such an important economic driver in downtown,'' said Frank O'Brien, executive director of the Wheeling-Ohio County Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''I don't think we could let it stay closed much longer, and now maybe it can be the start of other efforts.''
 The bureau recently paid $615,000 to buy the theater from the concert promoter Live Nation. The 81-year-old, 2,400-seat theater has been closed for nearly two years because of code violations. A coalition of local groups is trying to raise $8 million to restore the Beaux-Arts building, which it sees as the hub of a future entertainment district.
 In its heyday, Jamboree USA was rivaled only by the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville. It drew hundreds of thousands of country music fans to Wheeling every year to see not only local acts, but also nationally known stars like Johnny Cash, Merle Haggard and Charley Pride.
 ''It was an important show in country music for a long time because it had such a wide audience,'' said Bill C. Malone, a former Tulane University professor who is considered the dean of country music historians. ''It was just strategically located to have a big Eastern presence.''
 But unlike Nashville, Wheeling never tried to ride the coattails of Jamboree USA and become a music-writing and producing hub -- much to its regret now.
 Doc Williams, 94, whose band, the Border Riders, was a regular presence at the Jamboree, said: ''We had businessmen in Wheeling who frowned on the Jamboree. They called us 'hillbilly.' '' 
 ''We could have been a smaller Nashville,'' Mr. Williams said. ''It could have been an industry that was still running today.''
 Not only is the city trying to build on to Jamboree USA's history, but another fledgling group, calling itself Wheeling Jamboree, is also trying to rebuild the show. Clear Channel, the owner of WWVA, retained the rights to the Jamboree USA name.
 Wheeling Jamboree is putting on the shows at the 700-seat Victoria Theater, and making them available both on the Internet and on five regional stations -- though not WWVA, which is now a talk-radio station.
 The group's president, Jeff McCamic, harbors hope of returning to the Capitol, at least for shows that include national acts.
 ''We don't have to reinvent the brand,'' Mr. McCamic said. ''We're sort of going back to the newer and younger acts, the way it was in the beginning.'' 
 He added, ''We want to be part of this effort in downtown.'' 
 Like virtually every other city that has lost its industry, Wheeling, with a population of 29,000, has experienced many efforts to rejuvenate its downtown. One, in the early 1970s, would have turned much of downtown into a mall, but voters turned it down; another, five years ago, would have turned it into an outlet mall.
 So can an old factory city find the key to revitalizing its downtown?
 ''I think so,'' said Luis Rico-Gutierrez, director of the Remaking Cities Institute at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. ''But it is more a matter of attitudes than a matter of scales or money. They need to understand that culture is as important as steel was.'' 
 Danny Aderholt, the developer who was behind the outlet mall idea, still believes in his adopted hometown, but he is not sure what the answer is anymore.
 ''What Wheeling still has going for it is a gorgeous riverfront, and it's right off Interstate 70; it goes right through downtown,'' said Mr. Aderholt, whose office is in downtown Wheeling. ''We need to give people a reason to jump off it in Wheeling.
 ''We know retail is not going to happen here, so, shake the dust off and move on. Can entertainment be the vehicle? I don't know. I hope so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Capitol Music Hall's Jamboree USA once fashioned itself after Nashville's Grand Ole Opry.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A photograph from the 1930s at the Jamboree
 a new group in Wheeling is working to rebuild the country music showcase.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CREATIVE IMPRESSIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); HISTORY (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); GLASS MFG (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); EVENT MARKETING (68%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (53%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (95%); WHEELING, WV, USA (92%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



239 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Michelle Obama Greets And Serves the Homeless

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

 BODY:
The homeless men and women gathered at Miriam's Kitchen as they often do on a Thursday for a cup of coffee, a hot meal, a haircut and some help finding a job or a place to stay. 
 But on this day, they received an unexpected greeting from an unexpected visitor. Michelle Obama was in the kitchen.
 ''How are you doing?'' Mrs. Obama asked the astonished patrons as they lined up for mushroom risotto, steamed broccoli, fruit salad and apple-carrot muffins. ''My job here is to serve you.''
 Miriam's Kitchen was the latest stop on the first lady's getting-to-know-Washington tour.
 ''My purpose here is to listen, learn and scoop some risotto,'' Mrs. Obama told the group of about 50 homeless men and women. She said she hoped her visit would also encourage Americans to volunteer to help the needy in these difficult economic times.
 Miriam's Kitchen provides homemade meals to 4,000 homeless people a year, along with social service assistance, officials said. The soup kitchen, which serves breakfast every weekday and lunch once a week, does not use processed or canned foods. Instead, meals are prepared with fresh local and organic foods.
 Employees at the White House donated eight crates of fresh fruit, including apples, bananas, pineapples and melons, said Scott Schenkelberg, executive director of Miriam's Kitchen. Some of that fruit was served in the fruit salad on Thursday. 
 RACHEL L. SWARNS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); ORGANIC FOODS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



240 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Humbled, the U.A.W. Is Appealing for Support

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
The United Automobile Workers union has taken a beating from radio hosts, Republican lawmakers and many members of the public for pushing for a bailout of American automakers.
 As a result, the U.A.W. has quietly turned to other labor unions to help make the case for a bailout of General Motors and Chrysler, and to respond to charges that auto workers are pampered and overpaid and have gold-plated benefits. 
 The U.A.W., a much humbled but still proud union, was reluctant to ask others for help. But with polls showing that most Americans oppose bailing out Detroit, the union has asked its union allies for a hand. 
 The American Federation of Teachers has included a defense of the auto workers and their pay in the publications it sends to 1.4 million current and retired members. Unite Here, which represents textile, hotel and auto parts workers, is lobbying lawmakers in Southern states where it has a strong presence to urge them to keep Detroit alive. 
 Here at the A.F.L-C.I.O winter meetings, union leaders have vigorously embraced the U.A.W.'s cause. 
 ''The automobile industry accounts for fully one-fourth of all American manufacturing jobs and output,'' the federation's executive council said in a resolution on the economic crisis. ''The survival and revitalization of the domestic automotive industry is just as important to the nation's economy as is the health of financial companies like A.I.G. and Citibank.''
 ''I asked Ron Gettelfinger what we can do to help because they were so under siege, and they were so grateful,'' said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, referring to the U.A.W.'s president. ''We ended up putting out a lot of stuff to educate our people and our activists.''
 Teachers have participated in rallies to save Detroit's Big Three and have repeatedly made the point in Michigan and elsewhere that the automakers' demise would devastate the tax base in many communities, hurting schools and students.
 ''We don't consider this a Detroit problem,'' Elizabeth Bunn, the U.A.W.'s secretary-treasurer, said. ''This is a national problem. It affects communities all over the country.'' 
 Mr. Gettelfinger skipped the A.F.L.-C.I.O. meeting because he was busy negotiating with the automakers about cutting costs.
 After receiving $13.4 billion in federal loans, General Motors has requested $16.6 billion more, while Chrysler, having received $4 billion in loans, is seeking $5 billion more. Ford has not requested federal help. 
 For the U.A.W., one of the hardest charges to address is the automakers' assertion that their labor costs totaled $73 an hour per worker, including retiree health costs. The U.A.W. responded that its basic wage was $28, only slightly more than the wage at most foreign car companies operating in the United States. But including overtime, vacation pay and health and pension benefits for current employees, industry experts say, compensation comes to more than $50 an hour. 
 ''The way the U.A.W. has been treated is a disgrace,'' said John Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president. ''They're very skilled workers, and too many people forget the role that union played in building the middle class in America.'' 
 Labor unions quickly condemned Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, when he said the auto workers' pay package was too rich and needed to be trimmed if he was to support a bailout package. 
 Working America, an A.F.L.-C.I.O. affiliate, collected 1,500 often hostile handwritten letters that it sent to Mr. Corker.
 ''Everybody has to find a bogeyman when they have problems,'' Mr. Corker said. ''When people know you're telling the truth, it hurts sometimes.''
 He said the Obama administration had largely embraced his views about the need to trim the U.A.W.'s compensation to make the car companies competitive.
 ''New hires into U.A.W. jobs get paid exactly half of what people who've been there a while make,'' Mr. Corker said. ''That, by the contract they negotiated, is an admission that their wages were too high.''
 Timothy Chambon, a worker at a specialty steel plant in western Pennsylvania, took seriously the United Steelworkers' call to help the U.A.W. He wrote a letter to The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and went with a dozen other steelworkers to Washington, where he met with two congressmen from Pennsylvania, Jason Altmire a Democrat, and Tim Murphy, a Republican.
 ''We told them how important it is to keep these jobs in America,'' Mr. Chambon said. 
 The steelworkers are doing more than any other union to help the U.A.W. because they have a well-oiled Rapid Response network and so many members whose jobs depend on Detroit -- more than 100,000 steel, rubber, packaging and mining workers. 
 ''If Detroit's automakers go under, we're talking about not just 300,000 to 400,000 jobs, we're talking about 2.5 to 3 million industrial workers who depend on auto,'' said Leo W. Gerard, the steelworkers' president. ''One can't let the auto industry die and think you're going to revitalize manufacturing. And it will certainly make it harder to revive the economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); LOBBYING (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%); UNITE HERE (56%); AFL-CIO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



241 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Reaching Tech Folks on Their Turf

BYLINE: By SUSANNA HAMNER

 BODY:
THE software company Spiceworks has a small audience at small and medium-size businesses that technology advertisers are eager to reach: the information technology managers at those firms. 
 Spiceworks started in 2006 in Austin, Tex., in response to complaints among information technology professionals about the lack of a single application to manage their company networks and the hours they spent scanning Google for solutions to technology problems. 
 ''We wanted to create a wonderful software product for I.T. managers that was simple, quick to download, and easy to learn and use, and with a fun social networking twist,'' said Jay Hallberg, a Spiceworks co-founder. Spiceworks created downloadable software that helps technology professionals manage, track and report on the software and hardware on their company's network, all under one application. 
 Spiceworks has become a popular destination for corporate tech people -- more than 600,000 information technology managers -- to help one another with problems, and share their favorite products and services. 
 ''Spiceworks provides a concentrated audience that Google or another search engine can't,'' said Megan Lueders, vice president for marketing at a Spiceworks advertiser, LifeSize Communications, a provider of high-definition video products. 
 ''With Google, your prospect could be anyone from a student to a competitor to a chief technology officer. But with Spiceworks, you know you're talking to an I.T. professional.''
 Last year the company attracted 72 advertisers, up from 24 in 2007. Advertisers have included Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Intel, Advanced Micro Devices and Sony. During the same period, the company's user base more than doubled.
 ''Spiceworks has a unique vantage point that Google and trade magazines don't have: it's used only by I.T. professionals and while they're doing their work, so the data and targeted audience Spiceworks has is unprecedented,'' said Emily Riley, senior analyst with Forrester Research. ''Marketers know exactly what products users have, what they need and what they're considering.'' 
 Taking cues from social networking sites, Spiceworks recently began a feature modeled on Facebook's newsfeed that offers technology news, community discussions, and product and vendor updates. 
 It also helps users track changes to the hardware and software in their networks. The company also unveiled a Twitter-like messaging option that lets users share updates about themselves with other Spiceworks users. 
 ''Spiceworks is invaluable for us,'' said Brian Rousseau, information technology manager for Nobis Engineering Inc., an environmental engineering and consulting company in Lowell, Mass. ''Before Spiceworks, I'd have an I.T. problem I couldn't solve and would spend hours on Google trying to find the answer, but then I'd waste so much time searching through result pages. But with Spiceworks, it's like walking into an I.T. library.''
 Spiceworks users have rated and reviewed more than 15,000 technology products and services and created more than 400 professional groups on technology, industry and regional topics.
 The Spiceworks platform allows advertisers to communicate directly with clients. Some users have helped design ads. 
 ''H.P.'s next round of creative development for Spiceworks is based on the users' ratings and feedback on our ads,'' said Lauren Belliveau, media buyer for Hewlett-Packard's small and medium-size businesses at DraftFCB, a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. ''I could even see the Spiceworks community influencing our products in the near future because at the end of the day, they're the ones buying our products,'' she added.
 The company recently began offering event sponsorships to advertisers. The first event, called SpiceWorld, was held in Austin last October at one of the city's movie theaters and included panel discussions. Microsoft and CDW were sponsors of the conference.
 ''We have all these users who connect with one another online, so we thought, 'Why don't we bring them all together so they can connect with us and each other in person?' '' Mr. Hallberg said. ''Our entire team was there, so they were able to meet the real people behind this technology. We created a relaxing and fun environment. It was such a success that we're taking it on the road to at least five cities this year and probably 10 to 20 next year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Spiceworks screen includes a Hewlett-Packard sponsorship in the lower left corner and an H.P. ad in the upper right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (60%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); INTEL CORP (90%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (90%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); AMD (NYSE) (54%); AMD (FRA) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



242 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Oil Revenues Dropping, Iraq's Parliament Cuts the Budget

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Reporting was contributed by Atheer Kakan, Suadad al-Salhy, and Riyadh Mohammed from Baghdad, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Hilla.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Facing sharply depressed oil prices and an economy that depends on public spending, the Iraqi Parliament reluctantly agreed Thursday to cut the government's 2009 budget. But mindful that it is an election year, lawmakers made sure not to touch workers' salaries, pensions or the social support system of food rations and health care. 
 While Iraq is far calmer than it was even a year ago, violence is still a daily trauma in parts of the country. A car bomb on Thursday in Babil Province, just south of Baghdad, killed 15 people and wounded 36 others, the provincial health department's director said. 
 The government will absorb cuts of a little more than 7 percent, about $4.2 billion, which brings Iraq's 2009 budget down to $58.6 billion, according to the legislation that Parliament approved Thursday. Members of Parliament will take a 10 percent cut in their own salaries, bringing each member's salary to about $7,600 per month. But each Parliament member would continue to have a budget of about $12,800 per month for bodyguards. 
 In many respects Iraq, with its economy still largely directed by the central government, remains in better shape than some Western countries dominated by private firms forced to fire people or shut down completely because of the worldwide downturn. 
 But several lawmakers said they feared the flush days were drawing to a close. ''We are lucky for now,'' said Mahmoud Othman, an independent lawmaker from Kurdistan. ''But we could face disaster in six months.'' 
 Several lawmakers said they worried that even the slimmed-down budget would still far exceed oil revenues, the country's major source of income. For several months oil prices have hovered at $40 per barrel or below, but the Iraqi budget assumes a $50 per barrel price, making a substantial deficit all but inevitable later this year. Estimates of the size of that deficit are near half the amount of the budget. 
 ''The biggest problem is that this budget is based on the price of oil,'' said Jalaluddin al-Sagheer, a member of the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq. 
 Although the price of oil appears to be gradually edging upward, demand is down as the winter heating season draws to a close and with the auto industry in a tailspin because consumers are buying fewer new cars. 
 While the country does have a short-term cushion because of reserves of about $35 billion in unspent oil revenues held in bank accounts, some in the Federal Reserve in the United States, Iraq could run through much of that just to keep the government afloat in the coming months. 
 In Babil Province, the bomb that exploded in a parked car struck a livestock market in a Shiite area, witnesses said. The explosion showed that militants were still able to stage bold attacks, despite a general decline in violence in Iraq. ''They are just doing this to show they are still there,'' said a police official, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the news media. 
 Jabir Khalef Jabar, 36, said he saw a crowd gathered around a parked vehicle when he went to buy a sheep. ''People were looking for the driver of that vehicle,'' he said. ''Then I walked away from the vehicle, the explosion happened and the ground was shaking.'' There was no claim of responsibility.
 Babil, with its mixed population of Shiites and Sunnis, has been a regular target of car bombers. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Iraqi boy viewed wreckage after a car-bomb attack on Thursday near Hilla in Babil Province. The attack killed 15 people.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMED SAWAF/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RELIGION (60%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



243 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: In East Europe, Some Hope of Avoiding Recession

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The global economic slowdown will be felt differently across Eastern Europe, with most of the biggest countries expected to avoid slipping into recession, a leading research institute said Thursday.
 In its survey of the region, the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies found that there had not been a ''sudden stop'' in international financial flows across the whole region. So far, only a few countries, including Hungary, Latvia and Ukraine, have been seriously hit, it said. 
 Those countries, as well as Estonia, Hungary, Latvia and Lithuania, are expected to suffer a significant fall in economic growth, leading to a recession, it said.
 But economies of the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia may stagnate but not necessarily slip into recession, the institute said.
 The economies in the Balkans will straddle stagnation and recession, it said.
 Already common to all these countries, however, is an aversion to risky loans by banks. This will have a serious impact on household spending, unemployment and asset prices like homes, according to the report.
 While the indebtedness of households cannot be compared with Britain or the United States, it is substantial for some countries in the region.
 The authors of the report said that ''investment activity will suffer'' from the ''breakdown'' in lending and a decline in demand.
 One bright spot could be the impact of the currency devaluation experienced by several of these countries. 
 In the case of Poland, where the zloty has fallen by nearly half against the euro since last summer, some costs will increase, including debt denominated in foreign currency. 
 But Poland stands to benefit from a weaker currency via an improved foreign trade balance, and may even be unable to avert an increase in the deficit. 
 ''It might ultimately be the key component of demand that leads to an upswing,'' according to the report.
 In the Czech Republic, the report predicted, exports will weaken but private consumption will grow moderately as household debts are reduced.
 Slovakia's decision to adopt the euro in January helped ease the impact of the global financial crisis. The high conversion rate has undermined Slovakia's competitiveness against its neighbors, however, which are not in the euro zone. 
 Still, despite the steep decline in external demand, the Slovak economy may maintain modest positive rates of growth in the coming years, the institute said, driven by domestic demand supported by the government's deficit spending policy.
 In Slovenia, economic activity is expected to slow substantially in 2009 owing to weaker domestic and foreign demand. In particular, investment growth, which has been a crucial driver over the last few years, will turn negative. 
 A stimulus package representing more than 2 percent of Slovenia's G.D.P. should help to counter the overall economic downturn, the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); RECESSION (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CURRENCIES (86%); EURO (86%); DEVALUATION (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) SLOVAKIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); POLAND (93%); HUNGARY (93%); SLOVENIA (93%); UKRAINE (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); LATVIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); LITHUANIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



244 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Barbie at 50, Popular, Ponytailed and Primo

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

 BODY:
Devoted admirers of Barbie, who turns 50 this month, speak in a code of abbreviations.
 Collectors of vintage Barbie dolls toss around rarefied terms like ''OSS'' (original swimsuit), ''TNT'' (for late-1960s models with pioneering ''twist 'n turn'' waists), and ''NRFB'' (never removed from box). The less costly examples, the ones actually handled by children, have warning labels like ''AC'' (almost complete) or worse, ''RT'' (retouched).
 Barbie's inventor, Ruth Handler, a founder of Mattel, based the doll's hourglass figure on Bild Lilli, a German doll that in turn was based on a foul-mouthed, promiscuous newspaper cartoon character. 
 Since the original pale, stiff Barbie -- a version collectors call ''#1 Ponytail'' -- appeared at the International Toy and Trade Fair in New York in March 1959, the doll has taken on a variety of other racial identities, not to mention more than 100 professions. Her nose has remained pert, and her gaze vacant, while her plastic skin formula has grown dewier, her hair-plugs have multiplied, her forehead proportions have shrunk, and her joint movement has been upgraded.
 Yet it's ''#1 Ponytail'' that collectors crave. ''The '59 is absolutely the holy grail and almost impossible to find in great shape,'' said Sharon Korbeck Verbeten, author of ''The Best of Barbie: Four Decades of America's Favorite Doll'' (2001). Barbie's auction record is $27,450, reached in May 2006 at Sandi Holder's Doll Attic in Union City, Calif., for an NRFB blond dressed for a barbecue. No fading or chips mar her pale blue eyelids, red lips and matching nail polish, and her ears do not suffer from a common Barbie skin malady called ''green ear,'' caused by deteriorating metal earrings. The corrosion ''gets in the pores in the vinyl, and it's very unlikely that it can be cured,'' Ms. Holder said. ''It can even happen to something that hasn't been played with.''
 Prices for undamaged goods have held steady, despite the recession, said Joe Blitman, owner of Joe Blitman's Fashion & Celebrity Dolls in Los Angeles. ''We've had a marked uptick in business,'' he said. In addition to die-hard Barbie buyers, he added, ''a tiny part of the market also collects midcentury furniture.''
 ''Vintage Barbie,'' he continued, ''goes with the aesthetic'' of stylish 1950s objects like Eames chairs or George Nelson clocks.
 He has charged up to $15,000 for a 1959 blond in condition that he calls ''Christmas-morning-new.'' Such flawless pieces keep turning up, found slumbering in storage. ''It's astonishing how much boxed stuff still comes to the surface,'' he said, ''how often I get a call from the family of a woman who has died, and who left a closet full of dolls put away that she forgot about or never told anyone about.''
 In honor of Barbie's 50th birthday, Mattel has rereleased half a dozen retired models, including a 1971 Malibu in gauzy bell-bottoms, a 1977 SuperStar in feather boas and a 1986 Rocker in a spiky pink wig. The replicas, however, do not seem to dampen the prices for vintage stock. ''Reproductions have actually strengthened the market for antiques by increasing interest in scholarship,'' Ms. Holder said.
 When fans chat on Web sites or gather at events like the National Barbie Doll Collectors Convention (sorry, all 1,120 tickets to this year's celebration, in July in Washington, were sold out last July, two days after going on sale), ''we share research and compare notes,'' said Christopher Varaste, the author of ''Face of the American Dream: Barbie Doll 1959-1971'' (1999). 
 ''The heart of collecting these is that every one is individual; they're not as standardized as you'd think,'' said Mr. Varaste, who owns a few hundred Barbies. ''The early ones were hand-painted in Japan; you can see the different styles of different artists in the eyebrows and eyes. And there've been endless variations over the years to the faces and bodies and fabrics, as the Mattel designers have stayed on top of every trend in popular culture.''
 The anniversary, Ms. Holder said, will most likely fuel prices at her semiannual auctions. In her May sale the 400 lots will include NRFB dolls from 1960 to 1972 and outfits and accessories still in their packaging. She saves what she calls ''primo quality'' material for the auctions, while her store and Web site, dollattic.com, offer more affordable, sometimes flawed dolls. With poignant labels like ''one ear stained,'' ''repaired split at the neck'' or ''1 knee NOT posing,'' they are a few hundred dollars or less, perhaps ideal for collectors with compassionate streaks. 
 VERSACE VILLA DeCOR SALE
 In case last month's half-billion-dollar sale of Yves Saint Laurent's collection at Christie's in Paris left fans of fashion designers' possessions wanting more, Sotheby's in London is auctioning 535 lots from Gianni Versace's Italian villa on March 18. He filled the villa, on Lake Como, with neo-Classical paintings and statues of emperors and athletes. After his murder in 1997, the family preserved the decor until the Russian restaurateur Arkady Novikov bought the house last year.
 Sotheby's preview will simulate the interior, where a dining table rested on gilded caryatids ($11,900 to $19,800); bronze men's faces held light bulbs on a library chandelier ($15,800 to $23,800); and the bedroom had two cherry-wood bookcases made around 1814 for Princess Pauline Borghese ($119,000 to $238,000 each).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The ''#1 Ponytail'' collectors crave: a 1959 blond Barbie in original packaging, which sold for $27,450 at a 2006 auction.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDI HOLDER'S DOLL ATTIC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); CELEBRITIES (69%); AUCTIONS (68%); WRITERS (68%); TRADE SHOWS (53%); RACE & RACISM (52%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



245 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Track Owner Files Chapter 11

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
Magna Entertainment Corporation, which owns some of the most prominent horse racing tracks in the United States, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in a Delaware court Thursday and announced that it would sell Gulfstream Park in Florida and other racetracks to its parent company and largest creditor. 
 In a news release, M.E.C. said it had arranged a six-month secured loan of $62.5 million from a subsidiary of M.I. Developments, its controlling shareholder. It will use that money to protect certain assets and keep racing going at Gulfstream Park, Santa Anita and its other tracks. In the filing, there is no clear arrangement to protect Pimlico, which hosts the Preakness Stakes, the second leg of the Triple Crown. 
 ''Simply put, M.E.C. has far too much debt and interest expense,'' its chairman, Frank Stronach, said in a statement. Stronach, who built his fortune with the Canadian auto parts maker Magna International and assembled his track holdings over the past 10 years, controls Magna Entertainment and M.I. Developments, whose top assets are real estate.
 ''M.E.C. has previously pursued numerous out-of-court restructuring alternatives but has been unable to complete a comprehensive restructuring to date due, in part, to the current economic recession, severe downturn in the U.S. real estate market, and global credit crisis,'' Stronach added.
 The other holdings Magna apparently values in its agreement with M.I. Developments include the Palm Meadows training center in Florida, Golden Gate Fields in Northern California, Lone Star Park in Texas and its wagering companies AmTote and XpressBet. M.I. Developments has agreed to buy the assets for $44 million in cash, the rights to a $15 million lease and a credit on $136 million in debt Magna owes to M.I. Developments. It leaves open the possibility that the properties could be sold to a third party for a higher bid. 
 Magna has lost $500 million over the last five years. The filing was prompted by the fact it has $200 million of debt coming due over the next few weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (53%)

COMPANY: MAGNA ENTERTAINMENT CORP (96%); MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (83%)

TICKER: MGA (NYSE) (83%); MG (TSX) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (96%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (96%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



246 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Looking for a Reliever in Kentucky

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One of the entrenched narratives in American politics is the case of the guy who refuses to quit, even though a lot of people on his own team want him gone. 
 While the Democrats are preoccupied with Senator Roland W. Burris and his ties to a tainted Illinois governor, the Republicans are trying to rid themselves of Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky, the former baseball star who clearly has little use for some colleagues and party leaders, and who keeps exhibiting what one senator calls ''behavior issues.''
 Key Republicans are gently (or not gently enough) trying to dissuade Mr. Bunning from seeking re-election in 2010 out of concern that his paltry fund-raising, declining approval ratings and irascible conduct have made him something between vulnerable and unelectable. 
 But in recent weeks, Mr. Bunning has shown no sign of stepping aside and delivered a string of incendiary pronouncements that have fed an impression that he is, to go with a baseball metaphor, a bit of a screwball.
 He declared in a speech last month that the cancer-stricken Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg would probably be dead in nine months. (He then apologized in a statement that twice misspelled her name.) He threatened to sue the National Republican Senatorial Committee if it backed a primary challenger. And he hinted at a Capitol Hill fund-raiser last week that he was so mad at some in his party that he might just quit and let Kentucky's Democratic governor pick his successor.
 The senator later denied saying this, but veteran Bunning-watchers said it was impossible to know exactly what he had in mind.
 ''You never know what a cornered animal is willing to do,'' said Al Cross, a University of Kentucky professor who writes a political column for The Louisville Courier-Journal. 
 As a general rule, Mr. Bunning tries to limit his references to his Hall of Fame pitching career. He is sensitive about being pigeonholed as just ''a great baseball man'' (as a Democratic colleague, Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, mocked him last year in a verbal brawl on the Senate floor).
 But when asked in a brief hallway interview on Tuesday whether he was feeling betrayed by some Republican teammates, Mr. Bunning unleashed a high hard one.
 ''When you've dealt with Ted Williams and Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra and Stan Musial,'' he said, ''the people I'm dealing with now are kind of down the scale.''
 Elected to the Senate in 1998 after six terms in the House, Mr. Bunning, 77, is one of the Senate's most fiscally conservative members. His focus on economic issues -- he sits on the Senate Banking, Budget and Finance Committees -- would seemingly make him a high-profile voice on some of pressing issues of the day. But much of the attention he draws is over his demeanor, not his positions.
 Mr. Bunning is known on Capitol Hill for gruffly blowing past reporters and colleagues in hallways and for cranky outbursts at his staff. ''He is perceived as being out-of-touch, hot-headed and generally counterproductive,'' said Phil Musser, a Republican consultant and former official in the Bush administration. 
 As a native Kentuckian and sports legend in a solidly Republican state, Mr. Bunning long enjoyed a solid base of support. But his penchant for self-immolation nearly cost him re-election in 2004 -- and set off a swirl of questions about his mental fitness.
 He said in that campaign, among other things, that his opponent, Daniel Mongiardo, a physician, resembled one of Saddam Hussein's sons. He complained that supporters of Mr. Mongiardo had roughed up him and his wife at a political event (later describing the episode as ''little green doctors pounding on my back''). Despite heavily outspending Mr. Mongiardo and George W. Bush's winning the state by 20 percentage points, Mr. Bunning won by less than two.
 In 2006, Time magazine named him one of the five worst senators in the country. 
 When Mr. Bunning feels pressured, people who know him say, he tends to dig in and become more cantankerous. His cheeks go from their normal hue of pink to a deeper shade of red. And it has been a positively purple few weeks for Mr. Bunning. 
 ''The Republicans have dynamite on their hands,'' Mr. Cross said. ''There's always been dynamite with Bunning. But now they have a fuse.''
 The fuse is Mr. Bunning's campaign for a third term in 2010, which is already threatening to become an ugly internecine smackdown. The main characters are Mr. Bunning; Senator John Cornyn of Texas, who heads the National Republican Senatorial Committee; and Senator Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader, who annoyed his fellow Kentuckian recently when he said he did not know whether Mr. Bunning would seek re-election (leading Mr. Bunning to question the quality of Mr. McConnell's memory).
 When asked about Mr. Bunning on Tuesday en route to a Republican luncheon at the Capitol, Mr. McConnell said nothing and continued walking. 
 Privately, Republican senators and strategists readily express exasperation with Mr. Bunning's refusal to step aside, but tend to be more diplomatic in public.
 ''The question is whether it's time for him to hang up his cleats,'' Mr. Musser said. ''My basic contention is it probably is.''
 Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said that it was important that Republicans ''put their best team on the field'' next year. But Mr. Graham added that he did not believe that Senate leaders should determine who should or should not run. 
 Mr. Cornyn confirmed a report that Republican senatorial committee officials had met with a possible Republican primary challenger. When that meeting became public, Mr. Cornyn said he would support Mr. Bunning if he decided to run. 
 ''I don't believe anything John Cornyn says,'' Mr. Bunning fired back.
 Mr. Cornyn, in a brief interview Tuesday, said, ''We're trying to give him space to make his decision.'' 
 Mr. Bunning said he had made his decision: he is running. And he believes that implications to the contrary are meant only to thwart him. He added that he had thick skin, and that he had no intention of speaking to Mr. Cornyn anytime soon. 
 While he allowed that others might be distracted by the drama surrounding his re-election plans, he is not. ''I'm easily concentrated,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Jim Bunning has a focus on economic issues, but his demeanor sometimes draws more attention than his positions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); BUDGETS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: JIM BUNNING (90%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



247 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Shifts On Emissions, Drawing Fire

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Kate Galbraith contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
At the urging of the energy industry, Gov. David A. Paterson has agreed to reconsider a key rule New York adopted as part of a 10-state pact aimed at reducing the threat of global warming by cutting power plant emissions.
 Mr. Paterson appeared to overrule the State Department of Environmental Conservation in making the move, which would reopen state regulations to provide power plants leeway to release greater amounts of emissions at no additional cost. Administration officials said the governor was concerned the rule might unfairly burden the energy industry. 
 His decision infuriated environmental groups, which learned of Mr. Paterson's decision just this week, though he met with energy executives privately last fall and assured them he would take the step.
 ''We're extremely troubled by this development,'' said Jackson Morris, an energy expert at Environmental Advocates of New York. ''I have trouble even fathoming what played out.''
 The Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, which New York signed onto four years ago, established a system whereby power producers were required to obtain what are called allowances, which permit them to release certain levels of carbon dioxide emissions. They typically obtain the allowances by buying them at auction or trading them.
 The requirement for utilities to obtain the allowances in this way was established not only as a financial disincentive to discourage them from polluting, but as a way for states to raise money for greener energy initiatives.
 Mr. Paterson does not plan to withdraw from the climate accord, but has agreed to increase the number of free allowances provided by the state, which would lower the industry's costs of compliance. 
 The industry says the system hurts those power producers that signed long-term contracts with utilities years ago, without being able to factor in the price of the allowances. The additional allowances would be distributed to those that signed long-term contracts. ''It's a hard decision but it's a responsible decision to reopen it,'' said Judith Enck, the state's deputy secretary for the environment.
 Industry executives asked that the free allowances, which currently allow for the release of 1.5 million tons of emissions, be increased to 6.5 million tons, which, according to the most recent auction price, could save them $16.9 million.
 Although the administration has said it will follow the required public process and listen to all sides, officials are making it clear in discussions with environmental groups and energy executives that the governor intends to heed the industry's request, though he has not decided how many more free allowances to provide.
 Gavin Donohue, chief executive of the Independent Power Producers of New York, said he was having trouble last year persuading Department of Environmental Conservation officials to listen to the industry's concerns. So he went directly to the governor, he said, and got results.
 ''D.E.C. was not going to address it in a way that was adequate enough for industry,'' he said, adding, ''The governor recognized the legitimate inequities in the proposal that D.E.C. had put on the street and was very concerned about undue cost on business.''
 Asked if she supported the change, Ms. Enck, who was a longtime environmental activist before joining the state government under Eliot Spitzer, responded, ''My personal views don't really matter.''
 Environmentalist groups worry that Mr. Paterson's decision could set a precedent for other Northeastern states to revisit their regulations, and say the governor's move sends the wrong message to Washington as the Obama administration contemplates federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.
 Environmentalists are perplexed that Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, would weaken a landmark agreement among Northeastern states that was championed by a Republican predecessor, George E. Pataki.
 They are also criticizing what they see as a secret process with an industry that has donated tens of thousands of dollars to Governor Paterson's campaign coffers. 
 Several environmental groups, including the Natural Resources Defense Council and Environmental Advocates of New York, sent a letter on Wednesday to the governor's top deputy, Larry S. Schwartz, protesting the move.
 Abigail Dillen, a staff lawyer with Earthjustice, a public interest law firm, said the move ''sets a precedent that if you're a disgruntled operator, you can just go back to New York State.''
 For several months, there have been tensions in the Paterson administration over maintaining previous environmental goals amid a recession and budget crisis. The administration briefly considered creating a special panel with the power to review all regulation, and the governor said at the time that the greenhouse gas initiative might be affected in such a review. 
 ''What we are trying to avoid is what we have felt at times were institutional regulations that are inflexible,'' he said then.
 Indeck, an Illinois-based power producer which operates a plant in upstate New York, is suing the state over the initiative, arguing that it unfairly affects Indeck and other companies with long-term contracts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson may alter regulations in which utilities buy or trade allowances to cover carbon dioxide emissions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); AUCTIONS (87%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (71%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



248 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Bad Guys Set to Pounce In Bad Times

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In this Age of Madoff, the bar for ne'er-do-wells has been set exceedingly high.
 But we are a nation of strivers here in the land of E pluribus unum, to borrow from that world-class flimflammer, the Wizard of Oz. Few are likely to soar to the heights of deception that Bernard L. Madoff is accused of having reached. All the same, so many blackguards, lowlifes, scalawags, scoundrels, miscreants and other masters of skulduggery are ever about that we would all be wise to keep hands placed firmly on wallets.
 That, more or less, was the warning on Thursday from an array of government and nonprofit agencies at the United States Customs House on Bowling Green. 
 In case you missed it, this is National Consumer Protection Week. If ever the consumer needed protecting, it is now. Hard times, Leonard L. Gordon said, have created ''a target-rich environment for scammers'' who are all too eager to pick your pocket and even steal your identity.
 Mr. Gordon is the northeast regional director of the Federal Trade Commission. On Thursday, he was in effect the M.C. at a news conference on consumer fraud that was held by agencies sometimes better known by their initials -- employing enough of the alphabet for the people at Campbell's to create a new line of soup. The Customs House was an appropriate setting. It is where federal bankruptcy judges sit. 
 The Better Business Bureau was present. So were representatives of the state's attorney general, the state's Consumer Protection Board, the city's Department of Consumer Affairs and AARP -- the last, perhaps, because those of us who entered the world a few letters before Generation X are more vulnerable to fraud than some others.
 The message from them all was rather grim: fraud is on the march, whether carried out by store owners or online hucksters. Each agency had its own take, though.
 The ''most troubling sign'' for Marla Tepper, general counsel of the Consumer Affairs Department, was the sharp rise in complaints about underhanded and aggressive debt-collection agencies. They replaced home-improvement contractors as her department's No. 1 source of grievances. Many of them, way too many, she said, harass people mercilessly, phone at all hours, use abusive language and go so far as to threaten recent immigrants with deportation.
 ''Consumers have rights even when they owe debts,'' Ms. Tepper said.
 Judging from complaints registered with the Better Business Bureau, companies selling consumer electronics are the top offender in the city. But Claire Rosenzweig, the bureau's president for the New York region, said that unsavory practices by telecommunications companies became a significant and growing problem in 2008.
 AT the Federal Trade Commission, identity thieves are archvillains, but Mr. Gordon cited unscrupulous collection agencies as being of particular concern. ''As the economy gets tighter and tighter,'' he said, ''debt collectors may be getting more desperate.''
 Not nearly as desperate, though, as victims of phishing. This is a form of online fraud that uses devious e-mail messages to gull the unsuspecting out of account passwords and other vital information. Phishers are phlourishing, said Mindy A. Bockstein, chairwoman of the Consumer Protection Board.
 And the federal economic stimulus program, she said, has already created new opportunities for criminals. They phone people and tell them they are entitled to stimulus money. But first the callers demand banking information and the like, cautioning their marks that they must act fast. ''Given the state of the economy, people are more anxious and more desperate,'' Ms. Bockstein said. Some will believe anything.
 To add a personal touch, the agencies brought along a few victims to tell their stories. One was Mikel Rouse, a composer and director of operas, who recounted how he had been hounded ruthlessly by collection agencies for a $20,000 debt that he had cleared up several years earlier. ''It's just a shell game,'' said Mr. Rouse, who turned to Consumer Affairs for help. 
 It's enough to make one pine for the three-card monte players of the old days. They at least had some style.
 Actually, Mr. Rouse said, he fell for a three-card monte scheme soon after moving to New York from Missouri in 1978. He lost $5. Back then, that was real money for him.
 ''But I only had to fall for it once,'' he said, and then nevermore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (90%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); IDENTITY THEFT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); GENERATION X (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HOME REMODELING (69%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (67%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); JUDGES (64%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); DEPORTATION (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



249 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Central Banks for Euro Zone and Britain Drop Key Interest Rates to Record Lows

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

 BODY:
The Bank of England and the European Central Bank both cut key interest rates by half a percentage point on Thursday, pushing the rates to their lowest levels ever.
 At the same time, the British central bank took an unprecedented step intended to pump cash into the economy by buying government and corporate bonds.
 The Bank of England cut its benchmark rate, which was already the lowest in the bank's 315-year history, to 0.5 percent, as signs multiplied that the recession in Britain was deepening. 
 Bowing to evidence showing a painful economic contraction in the 16-nation euro area as well, the European Central Bank cut its main interest rate by a half point to 1.5 percent, the lowest since the creation of the common European currency and the bank itself 10 years ago.
 More rate cuts are possible and, with the European bank's forecasts showing the euro-area economy shrinking by as much as 3.2 percent this year, its president, Jean-Claude Trichet, did not rule out adopting an unorthodox strategy to kick-start business activity as well, possibly along the lines of that taken by the Bank of England.
 ''We are discussing and studying possible new nonstandard measures,'' he said. ''I don't exclude anything.''
 The Bank of England opened a new chapter in its recession-fighting efforts with its decision to buy $:75 billion ($105 billion) worth of longer-term private and public securities over the next three months.
 The move places the Bank of England out in front of its peers in the United States and Continental Europe.
 ''The bank is not just turning a corner here,'' said Julian Callow, chief Europe economist at Barclays Capital in London. ''This is a brand-new regime, being implemented in full force.''
 Britain's economy has been hit harder than almost any other in Europe, floored by the troubles facing its financial services industry, a sinking housing sector and rising unemployment.
 The new steps, often referred to as printing money, but technically called quantitative easing, aim to flood the financial system with cash in a bid to stimulate economic activity.
 Putting cash into various securities also pushes down borrowing costs at longer maturities, easing pressure on businesses and homebuyers in search of funds. Such actions, however, risk future inflation if they are not properly reversed once the economy begins to recover.
 The Bank of England had already made a cautious start by buying short-term securities known as commercial paper from banks, but that did not add cash to the system since it was offset by British treasury bond sales.
 Now, the central bank will simply exercise its power to create money outright for use in the public and private sectors. The bank has the authority from the British government to use up to $:150 billion for that purpose.
 ''Buying private debt is like spoon-feeding a sick person, but it only works if the private sector has an appetite for using the money to spend,'' said Thomas Mayer, chief Europe economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''If that does not work, the intravenous nourishment is to give the money to the government to stuff into people's pockets.''
 The British economy, in its first recession since 1991, contracted 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter after shrinking by 0.7 percent in the third quarter.
 The Federal Reserve, which has chosen a range of zero to 0.25 percent for its benchmark rate, has already begun a different form of quantitative easing on an immense scale by buying a range of private financial assets.
 But it is still holding off on buying United States Treasury bonds, economists said, probably because it wants to see the effects of President Obama's mammoth stimulus package. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, once referred to the last-resort policy of monetizing federal government debt as ''helicopter drops'' of money, earning him the moniker ''Helicopter Ben.''
 The Bank of Japan employed quantitative easing to help pull Japan out of a decade of stagnation from 2001 to 2006, and has not ruled out doing so again.
 In Frankfurt, the European Central Bank's reluctance to enact more aggressive policy measures has attracted widespread criticism from economists, who argue that little would be lost by lowering borrowing costs faster, and much could be gained through policies akin to those adopted Thursday in London.
 ''We need action from their side,'' said Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs. ''They really should be exhausting the traditional weapons of monetary policy, which may not be totally powerful right now. But they are not powerless.''
 The European bank acknowledged that the outlook had worsened in the last three months. Its staff forecast a best-case outlook of zero growth in December and now says the economy could contract from 2.2 to 3.2 percent this year. Further shrinkage of 0.7 percent is possible in 2010, the bank said, suggesting a recovery might not come as early as previously expected.
 The euro-zone economy shrank by 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 alone, the European Union said Thursday, confirming an earlier estimate. Surveys of consumer and business confidence suggest the economy is still in a sharp contraction, and hard data are beginning to affirm that view.
 The European bank's reluctance to move more quickly has heightened suspicions that divisions within the bank's decision-making bodies are responsible.
 ''If they took their own staff forecasts seriously now, they would have to act like the Bank of England,'' Mr. Mayer of Deutsche Bank said. ''But they clearly cannot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, said it was considering taking ''nonstandard measures.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY KAI PFAFFENBACH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); EURO ZONE (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



250 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Obama Vows to End Stalemate on Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama vowed on Thursday that there would be real improvements in the health care system ''this time around,'' and for the moment, at least, he enjoyed bipartisan agreement that something has to be done.
 ''I just want to figure out what works,'' the president said at the White House at the end of a day-long meeting on health care that brought together a diverse group of people, in and out of government, who have to deal with the ever-spiraling increase in care costs.
 Whether Democrats and Republicans can agree on what needs to be done, and when, remained anything but clear late Thursday afternoon. But if nothing else, the close of the session brought expressions of good will, promises to try for progress and, movingly, a tribute to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who has made health care one of his signature issues in more than 46 years in the Senate.
 Mr. Kennedy, who has been battling cancer and was greeted with sustained applause, said he and many others in the room had seen other times when the House and Senate tried to achieve reform, ''but they haven't been the kind of serious effort that I think that we're seeing right now.'' 
 ''This time we will not fail,'' Mr. Kennedy said.
 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, was more restrained, calling the day-long session ''useful'' and finding it ''significant, as Ted indicated, to have everybody in the room.''
 Another Republican, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, said bringing about change would be difficult, regardless of the friendly optimism that prevailed at the breakfast session. ''But without that sort of feeling starting out, nothing would get done,'' he said. 
 Earlier Thursday, President Obama said that though ''special interests'' and ''industry lobbying'' had blocked improvements in the health care system for decades, he vowed to end the stalemate this year and ensure that all Americans have access to affordable health care.
 ''Those who seek to block any reform at any cost will not prevail this time around,'' Mr. Obama said in opening the White House conference, where he promised to reduce health costs and expand coverage.
 The conference drew more than 150 participants, including members of Congress and leaders of labor unions, business groups, doctors, hospitals, insurance companies and consumer organizations.
 In his opening remarks, Mr. Obama provided no new details of how he would extend coverage to the 46 million people who have no health insurance. Instead, he expressed his hope that a ''transparent and inclusive'' process would produce a bipartisan consensus, overcoming the objections of those who had a financial stake in the status quo.
 In keeping with the upbeat, optimistic tone of the White House conference, Mr. Obama affirmed his desire to ''find a cure for cancer in our time.''
 The government estimates that the nation will spend $2.5 trillion on health care this year, or an average of $8,160 a person. Without any change in federal law, it estimates, health care will account for more than 20 percent of the nation's entire economic output in 2018, up from 17.6 percent in 2009, and public programs will account for more than half of all health spending -- without any of the changes contemplated by the White House.
 Liberals said Thursday that they were ready for a fight with the health care industry and would not be outmaneuvered as they were in 1993-94, when President Bill Clinton's effort to guarantee insurance for every American collapsed.
 ''In 1993, interest groups sounded supportive and made nice at the outset, but then turned and used all their resources to oppose reform,'' said Judith Feder, a Clinton administration official who is now a senior fellow at the liberal-leaning Center for American Progress. ''They pretended to favor reform, and undercut it at every step. This time we are not going to let them get away with it.''
 MoveOn.org, the liberal advocacy group, joined the National Education Association and Health Care for America Now, a grass-roots coalition, in mobilizing support Thursday for Mr. Obama's efforts to remake the health care system.
 In a letter to Mr. Obama, five senior Republican senators said they were eager to work with him. But they rejected one of Mr. Obama's campaign proposals, which called for creation of ''a new public insurance program,'' to compete with private insurers.
 ''Forcing free-market plans to compete with these government-run programs would create an unlevel playing field and inevitably doom true competition,'' the letter said. ''Ultimately, we would be left with a single government-run program controlling all of the market.''
 The letter was signed by Senators McConnell and Grassley, along with Senators Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, Judd Gregg of New Hampshire and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah.
 By contrast, Richard J. Kirsch, the national campaign manager of Health Care for America Now, said that a public plan option, similar to Medicare, was ''an essential component of health care reform,'' and he added, ''We are going to fight for it through the end.''
 In his remarks Thursday, Mr. Obama acknowledged that he faced daunting odds.
 ''Since Teddy Roosevelt first called for reform nearly a century ago, we have talked and tinkered,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We have tried and fallen short, stalled time and again by failures of will, or Washington politics, or industry lobbying.''
 Mr. Obama insisted that ''this time is different'' because ''the call for reform is coming from the bottom up, from all across the spectrum -- from doctors, nurses and patients, unions and businesses, hospitals, health care providers and community groups,'' as well as state and local officials.
 ''This time,'' the president said, ''there is no debate about whether all Americans should have quality, affordable health care. The only question is, how?''
 In a 2004 book, Prof. David M. Cutler, a health economist at Harvard, said, ''The history of health reform in the United States is not encouraging ,'' in part because ''providing insurance to everyone requires transferring resources from those on a higher rung to those in the middle and bottom of the income distribution.''
 Mr. Obama bypassed such difficult questions on Thursday, and focused instead on areas of potential agreement. 
 ''If we want to cover all Americans,'' Mr. Obama said, ''we cannot make the mistake of trying to fix what isn't broken. So if you have insurance you like, you'll be able to keep that insurance. If you have a doctor you like, you can keep that doctor. You'll just pay less for the care that you receive.''
 Moreover, Mr. Obama said that taming health costs was essential to pulling the nation out of its economic rut and putting federal finances on a sustainable course.
 ''If we want to create jobs and rebuild our economy,'' Mr. Obama said, ''then we must address the crushing cost of health care this year, in this administration.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CANCER (67%); INSURANCE (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TED KENNEDY (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (56%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



251 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The Big Dither

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last month, in his big speech to Congress, President Obama argued for bold steps to fix America's dysfunctional banks. ''While the cost of action will be great,'' he declared, ''I can assure you that the cost of inaction will be far greater, for it could result in an economy that sputters along for not months or years, but perhaps a decade.''
 Many analysts agree. But among people I talk to there's a growing sense of frustration, even panic, over Mr. Obama's failure to match his words with deeds. The reality is that when it comes to dealing with the banks, the Obama administration is dithering. Policy is stuck in a holding pattern. 
 Here's how the pattern works: first, administration officials, usually speaking off the record, float a plan for rescuing the banks in the press. This trial balloon is quickly shot down by informed commentators. 
 Then, a few weeks later, the administration floats a new plan. This plan is, however, just a thinly disguised version of the previous plan, a fact quickly realized by all concerned. And the cycle starts again.
 Why do officials keep offering plans that nobody else finds credible? Because somehow, top officials in the Obama administration and at the Federal Reserve have convinced themselves that troubled assets, often referred to these days as ''toxic waste,'' are really worth much more than anyone is actually willing to pay for them -- and that if these assets were properly priced, all our troubles would go away. 
 Thus, in a recent interview Tim Geithner, the Treasury secretary, tried to make a distinction between the ''basic inherent economic value'' of troubled assets and the ''artificially depressed value'' that those assets command right now. In recent transactions, even AAA-rated mortgage-backed securities have sold for less than 40 cents on the dollar, but Mr. Geithner seems to think they're worth much, much more.
 And the government's job, he declared, is to ''provide the financing to help get those markets working,'' pushing the price of toxic waste up to where it ought to be.
 What's more, officials seem to believe that getting toxic waste properly priced would cure the ills of all our major financial institutions. Earlier this week, Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, was asked about the problem of ''zombies'' -- financial institutions that are effectively bankrupt but are being kept alive by government aid. ''I don't know of any large zombie institutions in the U.S. financial system,'' he declared, and went on to specifically deny that A.I.G. -- A.I.G.! -- is a zombie.
 This is the same A.I.G. that, unable to honor its promises to pay off other financial institutions when bonds default, has already received $150 billion in aid and just got a commitment for $30 billion more.
 The truth is that the Bernanke-Geithner plan -- the plan the administration keeps floating, in slightly different versions -- isn't going to fly. 
 Take the plan's latest incarnation: a proposal to make low-interest loans to private investors willing to buy up troubled assets. This would certainly drive up the price of toxic waste because it would offer a heads-you-win, tails-we-lose proposition. As described, the plan would let investors profit if asset prices went up but just walk away if prices fell substantially. 
 But would it be enough to make the banking system healthy? No.
 Think of it this way: by using taxpayer funds to subsidize the prices of toxic waste, the administration would shower benefits on everyone who made the mistake of buying the stuff. Some of those benefits would trickle down to where they're needed, shoring up the balance sheets of key financial institutions. But most of the benefit would go to people who don't need or deserve to be rescued.
 And this means that the government would have to lay out trillions of dollars to bring the financial system back to health, which would, in turn, both ensure a fierce public outcry and add to already serious concerns about the deficit. (Yes, even strong advocates of fiscal stimulus like yours truly worry about red ink.) Realistically, it's just not going to happen. 
 So why has this zombie idea -- it keeps being killed, but it keeps coming back -- taken such a powerful grip? The answer, I fear, is that officials still aren't willing to face the facts. They don't want to face up to the dire state of major financial institutions because it's very hard to rescue an essentially insolvent bank without, at least temporarily, taking it over. And temporary nationalization is still, apparently, considered unthinkable.
 But this refusal to face the facts means, in practice, an absence of action. And I share the president's fears: inaction could result in an economy that sputters along, not for months or years, but for a decade or more. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NEW ISSUES (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



252 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: In Senate, Republicans Block Spending Measure

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senate Republicans blocked a $410 billion omnibus spending measure on Thursday night, forcing Congressional Democrats to prepare a stopgap budget resolution to keep the federal government from shutting down. 
 The ability of the diminished minority to delay the bill signaled growing unease in Congress, among Democrats and Republicans, over the levels of government spending in recent months and the staggering increase in the federal deficit.
 The delay of the bill was an embarrassment for Democrats and a striking, if temporary, victory for critics of so-called earmark spending initiatives, who had criticized the bill as bloated with wasteful expenditures. 
 Among those critics were Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and two Democrats who opposed the measure, Senators Evan Bayh of Indiana and Russ Feingold of Wisconsin. 
 But there were other reasons that Democrats came up short of the 60 votes needed to advance the bill. Two Hispanic senators -- one Democrat, one Republican -- opposed it over provisions that would have eased some travel and trade restrictions on Cuba. 
 Senate Republican aides said they expected the bill to be approved next week after Republican lawmakers were allowed to offer additional amendments.
 Although Republicans were glad to needle the Democrats by delaying the bill, there are reasons not to scuttle it. Doing so would result in a $8.4 million budget cut for Senate Republican committees, forcing staff layoffs. 
 Also, Republicans, like Democrats, would lose the home-state projects, or earmarks, totaling more than $7 billion in the bill. 
 In all, the bill would provide about $19 billion more than if a stopgap measure were used through the end of the fiscal year. 
 The Democratic leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said Congress would approve a stopgap budget measure to keep the government running through Tuesday night in hopes of passing the omnibus bill by then. 
 The Obama administration had called the bill ''last year's business'' because it represented the balance of President George W. Bush's final budget. White House officials said President Obama would sign the measure despite criticism from Mr. McCain and others that he was not doing enough to curb the wasteful ways of Washington. And the delay will only further highlight Mr. Obama's support. 
 The government has been running on a stopgap budget measure, approved by Democrats to avoid a fight with the Bush White House and which expires Friday. 
 The blocking of the bill also suggested a miscalculation on the part of Mr. Reid, who had tentatively scheduled a vote for 8:15 p.m. only to appear on the Senate floor at 8:40 to announce that the measure was stalled. 
 ''I know that everyone is anxiously awaiting the 8:15 time to arrive,'' Mr. Reid said, joking, but there were only scattered smiles among senators in the chamber. 
 ''It appears at this time that we are going to have to continue work on this bill,'' Mr. Reid said, adding that Republicans were insisting on offering additional amendments to the measure. 
 ''We would probably be a vote short,'' he added. 
 Thinking they would need every last vote, the Democrats even brought in Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who has brain cancer.
 The Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, highlighted the point that Democrats had come up embarrassingly short, saying, ''Let me just underscore what the majority leader has indicated: the votes would not be there tonight.''
 No Republican amendments are expected to be approved, but several will be devised to hurt Democrats politically. Democrats accused the Republicans of playing politics. A spokesman for Mr. Reid said one Republican senator who had pledged support of the bill pulled back Thursday evening. Mr. Reid's office declined to name the senator.
 The drama in the Senate came as some Democrats in Congress had voiced growing discomfort with the recent rise in government spending. Congress approved a $700 billion bailout for the financial system flast fall and recently adopted a $787 billion economic stimulus package. 
 With Mr. Obama's $3.6 trillion budget for the 2010 fiscal year next on the agenda, the unease among some Democrats over the omnibus bill could be a warning to the White House. 
 Mr. Feingold said he was troubled by the more than 8,500 earmarks in the bill. ''I generally don't vote for these omnibus bills because of the process of jamming everything together,'' he said. ''They are always loaded up with this stuff.'' 
 Mr. Bayh focused his criticism on the steep increase in discretionary spending. ''Such increases might be appropriate for a nation flush with cash or unconcerned with fiscal prudence, but America is neither,'' he wrote this week in an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal. 
 The House approved the bill last week 245 to 178. But 20 Democrats voted against it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, has criticized a $410 billion omnibus spending bill as being bloated with earmarks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); LAYOFFS (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (79%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); EVAN BAYH (59%); RUSS FEINGOLD (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



253 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: A Break In the Action

BYLINE: By STEVE FRIESS

 BODY:
BY now, a forest of high-rise condominiums was supposed to be crowding the skyline of the Las Vegas Strip, inhabited by celebrities, millionaires and those who wanted to bask in their reflected glory. Wealthy people the world over would find Las Vegas Boulevard an enviable second-home address akin to Park Avenue or South Beach, and major corporations would view owning a condo there as an amenity much like a skybox at a sports arena.
 And, indeed, it started out that way five years ago when one celebrity-branded high-rise after another made splashy announcements. There was to be George Clooney's Las Ramblas, Ivana Trump's Ivana, a hotel-condo by the celebrity chef Charlie Palmer. Web sites and entire real estate agencies sprang up around the notion that the market for luxury living on the Strip was limitless.
 It hasn't quite worked out. Each of those projects was canceled before even a shovelful of dirt was displaced. The St. Regis Residences, wedged between the Venetian and Palazzo resorts, stands as a truncated shell, construction having been unceremoniously halted in November by the financially troubled developer Las Vegas Sands. 
 Donald Trump built the hotel-condo Trump International Tower and saw reservations sell out, but a year on has managed to close on just 23 percent of the 1,286 units. His second tower has been postponed indefinitely. One completed condominium tower, Allure, has had such trouble closing on units that the developer has taken the unusual step of marketing the building to gay men and lesbians on the promise that a gay-themed hotel-casino may someday be built next door.
 Whether the desire to own a residence or live on the Strip was overestimated or whether the nation's real estate and economic collapse dashed these visions of glamour and profit, the Las Vegas second-home market is clearly different today from what it was giddily anticipated to be earlier this decade. 
 The buildings at CityCenter, the $8.6 billion six-structure development just south of the Bellagio Hotel and Casino, embody the uncertainty in the condominium market. The developer, MGM Mirage, holds deposits on 434 of the 670 units at the twin-tower Veer condominiums and 210 of the 227 at the residences atop the 400-room Mandarin Oriental Hotel. But there is no telling how many will close when the buildings open in December. The company also canceled 210 units in another building, the Harmon, when construction problems there forced the company to build 21 fewer floors than intended. The Harmon is now planned solely as a hotel and is due to open in late 2010, a year late.
 ''We have written very few new contracts in 2008, and the beginnings of '09 are not any better,'' said Tony Dennis, MGM Mirage executive vice president for residential sales. Even so, the company, which raised prices in February 2008, does not plan to discount them. ''We have a philosophy that the real estate is finite, that CityCenter is exceptional and that lowering prices in the short term offends the buyers who come before and undermines the philosophy,'' Mr. Dennis said.
 Mr. Trump also isn't lowering prices, saying he has reduced the $535 million mortgage to ''a very low number'' partly through 20 percent nonrefundable deposits and by, for the time being, renting out as hotel rooms those units that don't close. He said he was astonished at the stalling of the St. Regis, which is visible from his tower across the street. ''They have an empty building right in the front entrance that stopped construction,'' Mr. Trump said. ''I don't know whose idea that was. They have a concrete frame standing there; you talk about a mess.''
 When second-home seekers do buy on or near the Strip, real estate agents say, most pay cash. That's what Harry Bienenfeld, 64, of Old Brookville, N.Y., did last year when he bought a 3,200-square-foot, three-bedroom, three-bathroom unit with two terraces for $1.055 million at Turnberry Place, a four-building high-rise complex just off the Strip that was completed in 2005 and is seen as the most successful of such projects.
 Mr. Bienenfeld bought the property for an especially Vegas-y reason: he was tired of having to gamble a certain amount to earn free rooms and amenities at resorts on the Strip.
 ''When you stay in these hotels, you always feel the pressure to meet your minimums,'' said Mr. Bienenfeld, a retired commodities trader who said the last straw was a visit to the Bellagio when he was charged more than $1,000 a night for his room upon checkout because he hadn't played enough. ''This way I own my own place and play as much or as little as I like.''
 Mr. Bienenfeld admits he wishes he had waited -- he bought in February 2008 and the property would probably be significantly less now -- but he said he was confident about Las Vegas in the long term.
 ''I think Turnberry Place, because it's mostly third or fourth homes for most people, will continue to hold their value,'' Mr. Bienenfeld said. ''For those who can afford to hold on, Las Vegas isn't going anywhere. It'll be back.''
 Some second-home browsers in Las Vegas put off by what they see as unreasonably high prices on the Strip have found themselves considering properties in unexpected parts of town.
 Such was the case of Richard Thum, a frequent visitor from San Antonio, who joined a recent bus tour of foreclosed properties aimed at second-home buyers and led by Jennifer Martin, a real estate agent. Ms. Martin's tour began first at a trio of single-family houses in the suburbs, which mildly irritated Mr. Thum, who was focusing on condominiums on the Strip.
 ''This isn't what I planned to look at,'' muttered Mr. Thum, who had stayed an extra day and skipped Valentine's Day evening with his wife to take the tour. 
 By the time the bus arrived at a pair of units at Turnberry Place, though, Mr. Thum had made a mental shift that startled even him. The third house in the suburbs was a 2,300-square-foot, three-bedroom single-family home with a kidney-shaped pool that was listed for $194,500. It had last sold for $395,000 in April 2006 before Wells Fargo foreclosed on the owners in January.
 Mr. Thum was charmed by the place and unimpressed by what he found at Turnberry. He was shocked that a 2,195-square-foot two-bedroom, three-bathroom unit on the 14th floor was listed at $454,900 even though the deck, which provided a spectacular southward Strip view when it was completed in 2004, now faced a mammoth parking structure for the soon-to-open Fontainebleau Hotel and Casino. The unit, foreclosed upon in December, last sold for $850,000 in March 2005.
 ''My impression when we first started was that I wanted a condo, but I also was expecting to see blighted neighborhoods of houses with rows of foreclosed signs, and that's not it at all,'' said Mr. Thum, a 53-year-old commercial real estate agent who visits Las Vegas at least three times a year. ''And look at the prices. There's no way I would spend $500,000 to look at a parking lot when I can pay a third of that for a house, a pool and no association fees.''
 Real estate agents say his is a common reaction these days. Nevada has the nation's highest foreclosure rate -- one in 76 homes is owned by a bank -- so real estate agents are aggressively pushing the prospect of astonishing deals. The city enjoyed its best January ever this year in terms of single-family home sales, although more than 80 percent of those units were foreclosures.
 ''I hear from a lot of people who are only familiar with the Strip, who think they want to live a few blocks off the Strip,'' said Robin Camacho, a real estate agent who writes the House Advantage blog for the Las Vegas Advisor, a Web site aimed at visitors. Ms. Camacho, whose 27 sales in 2008 put her among the top sellers in the region, said all were foreclosed properties. ''You've got to have an awful lot of money to not think twice to put down $1 million on a condo near the Strip,'' she said, ''and it also might not be worth it.''
 ONE of Ms. Camacho's clients was Darlene Robidoux of Winnipeg, Manitoba, who came to town with her husband, Paul, in October with one rule for their search for a second home: it had to be at least 20 minutes away from the Strip. ''When I go there, I want to not initially think, 'Oh, I'm in Vegas,' '' Ms. Robidoux said. ''I want to be able to go and think this is my second home and relax there.''
 The couple drove in for their annual 10-day visit with a blank check in hand, capable of spending as much as $90,000 for a condominium unit. They found precisely what they sought, a 980-square-foot, two-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment in the northwest community of Summerlin, for much less. The unit, which last sold for $165,990 in 2005 before being foreclosed upon last year, had been listed for $84,900 but -- in a stroke of Vegas-sized luck -- fell to $58,400 the day the Robidouxes chose to take a look, and their $61,100 topped an existing bid.
 ''When we left, we were just in shock,'' said Mrs. Robidoux, 43, a dispatcher at the hospital where Mr. Robidoux is a systems analyst. ''In the car, we'd say to each other, 'Did we just buy a condo?' All the way back home, we were like that.''
 Mr. Thum, who is debating whether to bid on the house with the pool, is wondering if in fact the Las Vegas market has hit its bottom yet. He said he was confident, though, that even if it has not and he buys now, values will rise again sooner or later.
 ''This is the only city in the world that has billion-dollar hotels -- not one or two, but a whole line of them, one after the other -- and none of those hotels are going to go out of business,'' he said. ''Las Vegas is not going to dry up and go away. You give it 10 or 20 years, you'll do just fine here.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Friday about the real estate market in Las Vegas misstated the age of Harry Bienenfeld, a retired commodities trader from Old Brookville, N.Y., who bought a second home in a high-rise complex just off the Strip. He is 54, not 64. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HALTED: Construction on the St. Regis Residences, at center topped by a crane, stopped in November.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
 DECISIONS: Richard Thum, on a real estate tour led by Jennifer Martin, right, examines a pool at one property. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CASINOS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (64%); LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (56%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (64%); LVS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (64%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (64%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (78%); GEORGE CLOONEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%) NEVADA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



254 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Start in the Middle East

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton put down the right markers on her first Middle East trip as secretary of state.
 Whatever the eventual composition of a new, and presumably more hawkish, government after Israel's last election, Mrs. Clinton made clear that America's compelling interest lies in a two-state solution anchored by a broad regional peace. She advanced that interest by announcing diplomatic re-engagement with Syria and strong American support for the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas. 
 Former President George W. Bush made a serious mistake by shunning Syria, pushing it further into Iran's arms. Coaxing Syria away from Tehran would benefit Washington, deepening Iran's isolation on the nuclear issue and encouraging Syrian cooperation in stabilizing Iraq. It would benefit Israel, giving Syria greater incentives to cut off arms flows to Hezbollah in Lebanon. And it would benefit Syria, by providing the wider diplomatic and economic opening Damascus has been seeking.
 Israel's likely next prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, is believed to be more open to peace talks with Syria than with the Palestinians, but peacemaking with Syria is a supplement, not a substitute, for peacemaking with the Palestinians. 
 Mr. Abbas remains the key on that front, despite the weakness of his Fatah party. Fatah's rival, Hamas, disqualifies itself so long as it permits rocket fire and terrorism against Israel and rejects past agreements between Israel and the Palestinians. 
 Yet the widespread civilian suffering in January caused by Israel's counteroffensive against Hamas in Gaza damaged Mr. Abbas's credibility as an effective defender of Palestinian interests. Washington must convince Israeli leaders to help rebuild it.
 In the West Bank, that means freezing further settlement construction and expansion. It means lifting roadblocks between Palestinian cities and towns that are not needed for security. In East Jerusalem, it means stopping the humiliating eviction of Palestinians. And in Gaza, it means expanding exceptions to the blockade to allow the import of cement and reconstruction materials. These moves will benefit Mr. Abbas more than Hamas, which feeds on Palestinian suffering.
 Mrs. Clinton says that she raised these points with Israeli leaders. She will need to keep raising them, and so will President Obama's Middle East envoy, George Mitchell, who will return to the region after a new Israeli government is in place. Eight years of incoherent policies and inconsistent engagement make reviving American peace efforts harder -- and more urgent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL FATAH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ARMS TRADE (75%); TERRORISM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%); HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



255 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: When Obamatons Respond

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
On Tuesday, I wrote that the Obama budget is a liberal, big government document that should make moderates nervous. The column generated a large positive response from moderate Obama supporters who are anxious about where the administration is headed. It was not so popular inside the White House. Within a day, I had conversations with four senior members of the administration and in the interest of fairness, I thought I'd share their arguments with you today. 
 In the first place, they do not see themselves as a group of liberal crusaders. They see themselves as pragmatists who inherited a government and an economy that have been thrown out of whack. They're not engaged in an ideological project to overturn the Reagan Revolution, a fight that was over long ago. They're trying to restore balance: nurture an economy so that productivity gains are shared by the middle class and correct the irresponsible habits that developed during the Bush era. 
 The budget, they continue, isn't some grand transformation of America. It raises taxes on energy and offsets them with tax cuts for the middle class. It raises taxes on the rich to a level slightly above where they were in the Clinton years and then uses the money as a down payment on health care reform. That's what the budget does. It's not the Russian Revolution.
 Second, they argue, the Obama administration will not usher in an era of big government. Federal spending over the last generation has been about 20 percent of G.D.P. This year, it has surged to about 27 percent. But they aim to bring spending down to 22 percent of G.D.P. in a few years. And most of the increase, they insist, is caused by the aging of the population and the rise of mandatory entitlement spending. It's not caused by big increases in the welfare state.
 The White House has produced a chart showing nondefense discretionary spending as a share of G.D.P. That's spending for education, welfare and all the stuff that Democrats love. Since 1985, this spending has hovered around 3.7 percent of G.D.P. This year, it's about 4.6 percent. The White House claims that it is going to reduce this spending to 3.1 percent by 2019, lower than at any time in any recent Republican administration. I was invited to hang this chart on my wall and judge them by how well they meet these targets. (I have.)
 Third, they say, Republicans should welcome the budget's health care ideas. The Medicare reform represents a big cut in entitlement spending. It amounts to means-testing the system. It introduces more competition and cuts corporate welfare. These are all Republican ideas. 
 Over the long run, Obama has insisted that health care reform will be deficit-neutral. Many experts believe this will force Democrats to reduce the tax exemption for employee insurance benefits in order to raise revenue. This idea is at the core of most conservative reform proposals.
 Fourth, the White House claims the budget will not produce a sea of red ink. Deficits are now at a gargantuan 12 percent of G.D.P., but the White House aims to bring this down to 3.5 percent in 2012. Besides, the long-range debt is what matters, and on this subject President Obama is hawkish.
 He is extremely committed to entitlement reform and is plotting politically feasible ways to reduce Social Security as well as health spending. The White House folks didn't say this, but I got the impression they'd be willing to raise taxes on the bottom 95 percent of earners as part of an overall package. 
 Fifth, the Obama folks feel they spend as much time resisting liberal ideas as enacting them. The president resisted union pressure and capped pay increases for government workers. He resisted efforts to create mandatory veterans' health benefits. The administration plans to tackle the suspiciously large increase in the number of people claiming disability benefits.
 I didn't finish these conversations feeling chastened exactly. The fact is, after years of economic growth, the White House still projects perpetual deficits of more than $500 billion a year. That's way too much, especially with the boomers' retirements looming. Moreover, Congress will likely pass the spending parts of the budget and kill the revenue parts, like the cap-and-trade energy tax and the limits on itemized deductions, thus producing much, much bigger deficits.
 Plus, I'm still convinced the administration is trying to do too much too fast and that the hasty planning and execution of these complex policies will lead to untold problems down the road.
 Nonetheless, the White House made a case that was sophisticated and fact-based. These people know how to lead a discussion and set a tone of friendly cooperation. I'm more optimistic that if Senate moderates can get their act together and come up with their own proactive plan, they can help shape a budget that allays their anxieties while meeting the president's goals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); TAX RELIEF (72%); TAX LAW (67%); AGING TRENDS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



256 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Helping the House Poor

 BODY:
President Obama's anti-foreclosure plan, which took effect on Wednesday, is better than anything attempted by the Bush administration, but it is at best one step forward and, unfortunately, may prove to be fundamentally flawed.
 The program's success ultimately will rest on whether the administration is willing to intensify its efforts and, as needed, shift gears. Congress also has to bolster the plan with a new anti-foreclosure law.
 The bulk of Mr. Obama's plan is aimed at about four million borrowers who are in default or at risk of default -- people who cannot afford their monthly mortgage payments and cannot refinance, generally because they owe more on their loans than their homes are worth. 
 The idea is to lower the monthly payment on a loan by modifying its terms, which is the right goal. The problem lies in the way loans will be modified. Mr. Obama's plan emphasizes lowering monthly payments by reducing a loan's interest rate, which certainly will allow many people to stay in their homes, in the near term at least. What it won't do is make staying there a wise move. And it's not the best way to guard against re-default. 
 Remember that most delinquent and high-risk borrowers are ''under water.'' Reducing the interest would make their monthly payments more affordable, but their loan balance would still be higher than the value of the property -- in many cases much, much higher. Essentially, they would be renting their homes from the lender. 
 In the short run, and perhaps even in the long run, many troubled borrowers will be relieved to qualify for a lower interest rate. But the fact is that being under water is itself a big risk factor for default, even if the payment has been cut. One reason is that there is no equity cushion to fall back on in the event that job loss or any other financial setback -- illness, divorce, major repairs -- make it impossible to keep up with the payments. Currently, some 13.6 million homeowners are under water. While most are current in payments, many of them are just one unfortunate event away from default. 
 A better way to lower the monthly payments for these people is to reduce the principal remaining on the loan. That way, the payments become affordable and, as equity is rebuilt, the borrower has both an incentive and the means to keep current. The Obama plan provides subsidies for lenders to reduce principal balances, but the option is not promoted as prominently as simply reducing the interest rate. That's a shame. It is a better way to go, but lenders prefer interest-rate reduction to principal reduction, in part, because it appears to minimize the loss they have to recognize upfront. 
 This is where Congress can make a difference. On Thursday, the House passed a bill that would allow bankrupt homeowners to have their loans modified in bankruptcy court, where the most common solution is to reduce the principal. The bill is overly restrictive, but if passed -- and if the Senate doesn't weaken it any further from the House's version -- it could give underwater homeowners another way to keep their homes.
 Perhaps more important, lenders are more likely to pursue sound modifications if the alternative is to face the borrower in court. Best of all, modifying loans via bankruptcy proceedings costs the taxpayer nothing. The costs are borne by the borrowers and the lenders. 
 Homeowners -- like the banks, much of corporate America and the government itself -- are suffering under the weight of excessive debt. The Obama plan will make mortgage indebtedness more manageable, but ultimately the debt itself needs to be greatly reduced. The sooner we as a nation move in that direction, the better. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009



257 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: A Legacy in Dispute

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
When the students of the Conserve School in Wisconsin poured into the auditorium on a blustery morning early this year, they had no inkling of what would follow.
Stefan Anderson, the headmaster, told them that the trustees were essentially shutting down the prep school because of the dismal economic climate. Its four-year program would be converted to a single semester of study focused on nature and the environment.
''We thought we would hear they were cutting financial aid,'' recalled Erty Seidel, a senior on the wooded campus, which is filled with wildlife and sprawls across 1,200 acres in Land O' Lakes.
Greta Dohl, a student from Iron River, Mich., in her third year at the school, broke down and cried. ''I was absolutely heartbroken,'' she said of the closing. 
Now students and parents are banding together and challenging the action, contending the school's underlying financial condition does not look so dire. In fact, the school's endowment would be the envy of many a prep school. With $181 million and 143 students, it has the equivalent of more than $1 million a student.
In a lawsuit filed in State Circuit Court in Wisconsin, the parents argue that the trustees are acting in their own interests -- as officials of a separate, profit-making steel company -- and want them removed from oversight of the school.
At its heart, the dispute shows how much distrust can build when a nonprofit's trustees are one and the same as those overseeing a company. And it illustrates what can happen to a nonprofit that fails to diversify its investments.
The trustees counter that they are performing their duty and that the endowment does not have enough money to meet the school's current needs. Furthermore, they say the school's trust never specified that the school would have a college preparatory curriculum over four years or that the trust should diversify.
The fight threatens the legacy of James R. Lowenstine, a chief executive of the Central Steel and Wire Company, a Chicago steel company, who died in 1996. Childless himself, he envisioned a school that would provide a general education with an emphasis on nature, and donated land he had accumulated in his lifetime.
Today, the property has eight lakes, 22 miles of cross-country biking and hiking trails, and school buildings completed in 2002. Mr. Lowenstine established a trust that has been providing financial aid to about 70 percent of the school's diverse student body.
The trust remains heavily invested in Central Steel and Wire and has a majority stake in the company. The trustees, who therefore control the steel company, wear multiple hats, as directors of Conserve School and directors and executives of Central Steel and Wire.
Some parents suggest the trustees are fearful that selling some of the stock to meet the school's needs could jeopardize their roles at the steel company. If the trust's stake of 59 percent fell below 50 percent, an outsider could take control of the company.
Conserve School is unusual in several ways. Most endowments aim to diversify their holdings to minimize the risk of devastation from one soured investment. The Conserve School Trust has $132 million of its $181 million endowment in Central Steel stock.
Ronald V. Kazmar, Central Wire and Steel's chief financial officer and managing trustee for the trust, said in a telephone interview that the original trust document said the trustees did not have to diversify and recommended they not sell the stock.
Even so, the trust has substantial resources. School endowments generally pay out about 5 percent of their assets annually, a rule of thumb among charities.
In the last fiscal year, the trust distributed less than 3 percent of its assets, or $4.9 million of the school's $8 million operating budget, according to Mr. Kazmar, with paid tuition of $30,000 a year contributing most of the rest.
The financial condition of Central Steel, meanwhile, is difficult to gauge. Mr. Kazmar said that the closely held company was valued annually by J.P. Morgan, and that those figures were not made public. The stock is thinly traded over the counter and appears to have fallen about 10 percent from its 52-week high last April.
Last year Central Steel paid a dividend of $30 a share. According to Mr. Kazmar, the company is planning to cut its dividend to $20 this year. At that level, the trust will still reap about $3.2 million in dividends. The trust could also tap its other, diversified holdings, about $48 million.
In court documents, the trustees said that the trust could provide only $4 million annually to the school, ''well short of the school's current operating needs.'' That projected shortfall prompted them to seek ''alternative models,'' they added. The school will need about $6.2 million from the trust next year to meet its $8 million budget, Mr. Kazmar said in the interview.
The trust could sell various assets and wait out the downturn, contends William Meier, one of the parents bringing the lawsuit.
He said he sent his son to Conserve because he was gifted academically and ''our public school in Whitefish Bay does not have a gifted and talented program for the high school.''
''My son fell in love with it,'' he added.
In an affidavit, he testified that when he asked the headmaster why the trustees did not diversify, Mr. Anderson replied that the trustees did not want to sell below 51 percent of the holdings in the steel company ''or they would lose control of the company.''
Mr. Kazmar, the managing trustee, denied the trustees had any motive other than serving the school. ''There has been an economic downturn and based on our projections, it is necessary to make this change,'' he said in the interview. ''Our only agenda here is to keep the school going.''
Daniel L. Kurtz, a partner at the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom who heads its exempt organizations practice and is not involved in the case, said that in his opinion, even if the trustees were not directed to diversify their holdings, they had certain obligations.
In his view, ''the trustees have to act in the best interest of the beneficiary, which is the charity,'' he added. ''Holding on to a stock that declines in value simply cannot be a means of fulfilling your fiduciary obligations.''
On Friday, a judge rejected the parents' request for a temporary halt to the trustees' plan, suggested mediation and scheduled a hearing for late April.
The downsizing at Conserve has left many teachers and students adrift. More than two dozen teachers were offered severance packages if they did not disparage the school.
Juniors have been told that they can finish their senior year. Ms. Dohl, however, has applied to college early in hopes of skipping a senior year in a school with fewer than 40 students.
''I feel that the academic program has been compromised,'' she said. ''The wide variety of classes is not going to be offered. The teachers will be focused on planning the semester school instead of focusing on us. The atmosphere is going to be really, really weird. We are going to look around and say, 'Where is everybody else?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One day last September, Conserve School students were at study in a lounge, above. In a biology class, a student, left, analyzed a leaf. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KYLE BURSAW)(B1)
Stefan Anderson, Conserve School's headmaster, told students that the four-year program would be shortened to one semester.
 A Conserve senior, Wendy Eliot, studying. The school was built on land donated by James R. Lowenstine, a steel executive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KYLE BURSAW)(B4) MAP: Conserve School covers 1,200 acres in Land O' Lakes. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); LAKES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HIKING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LITIGATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%)

COMPANY: CENTRAL STEEL & WIRE CO (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



258 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: A Gloomy Outlook for Big Season in Home Sales

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The ''For Sale'' signs are just starting to sprout, but already experts worry that this spring home-buying season will be even grimmer than the last.
Despite tentative signs of recovery in hard-hit areas like California and Florida, the broader housing market is far from reaching bottom, economists say. Across much of the nation, prices are likely to keep falling into 2010.
So this March-to-June season, when most homes are bought and sold, will be bad, perhaps the worst since the market began to spiral down in 2006.
Across the nation, 19 million houses and apartments -- nearly one out of every seven -- are vacant, the highest percentage since the 1960s. But only about six million of those homes are for sale or for rent. That means millions more could still flood onto the market, depressing prices further. 
For would-be sellers, the bad news keeps coming. This week, one new report showed that one in nine mortgages was delinquent or in foreclosure, while another showed that January contract signings for sales of previously owned homes fell at their fastest pace in two years.
On Wednesday, the Obama administration announced details of a plan that will pay banks to lower monthly payments for troubled borrowers, hoping to avert millions of foreclosures and keep more homes occupied. Despite that effort, most analysts expect the outlook to worsen.
But as the recession deepens, the downturn in housing, where the economic crisis began, is starting to play out in new, unexpected ways. Cities where home values held up last year are suffering now, while some suburban areas where prices plunged are slowly starting to improve.
In inland areas of California, for instance, sales are surging now that prices have fallen sharply. But most of the sellers are not individuals but rather banks that foreclosed on homeowners who could not or would not pay their mortgages.
By contrast, in cities like New York and San Francisco, where prices have not fallen as much, the market is largely frozen.
''The further you get from the city, the more prices have declined, and that's where we see sales increasing,'' said Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, a real estate brokerage firm. ''Eighteen months ago, the city was the only place where people were still buying homes.''
Christian Punsal, a 24-year-old city employee in Elk Grove, Calif., near Sacramento, is among the first-time homeowners and investors swooping in.
Mr. Punsal bought a three-bedroom home for $193,000. On a monthly basis, the house will cost him $100 less than the rent on his two-bedroom apartment. The home sold for $336,000 four years ago, when he was a junior in college.
''I just felt that this would be the perfect time to buy,'' he said.
Others like him are wading into the California market. In January, home sales in the state jumped by 54 percent from January 2008. But about 60 percent of the previously owned homes sold had recently been in foreclosure, according to DataQuick, a publisher of real estate information.
Carlos Kozlowski, a real estate agent with Coldwell Banker in Sacramento, said virtually every home he sold recently, including the one Mr. Punsal bought, was owned by the bank or a ''short sale,'' in which the price was less than the property's mortgage.
Prices are down as much as 50 percent from a few years ago, and many properties are getting multiple bids, he said.
Still, home sales fell nationally in January, reflecting a sharp drop in the Northeast, which, with parts of the Northwest and South, has lagged the real estate downturn in the Southwest.
In Manhattan, for instance, sales of condominiums and co-operative apartments fell 52 percent in January, according to Miller Samuel, an appraisal firm.
The market has been hammered by layoffs on Wall Street, tighter lending standards and a glut of new buildings, said Jonathan J. Miller, chief executive of the firm.
''The leverage is being squeezed out of the economy.''
New York is not alone. Real estate sales have also slumped in cities like San Francisco and Seattle, which previously seemed impervious. California's recent experience might offer one roadmap of how the housing slump will play out in other places. But the process will be painful and slow.
So April, when buying traditionally picks up, could be the cruelest month yet for the housing market.
''You are really looking at a very, very ugly outlook,'' said Ivy Zelman, chief executive of Zelman & Associates, a housing research firm.
In recent months, many banks and mortgage companies have suspended foreclosures voluntarily or because of state moratoriums meant to encourage negotiations between delinquent borrowers and lenders. Experience, however, shows that these suspensions merely delay foreclosures, and that foreclosed homes soon flood the market.
Another big concern is that homeowners with solid credit records will fall behind on their mortgages in greater numbers as unemployment rises.
So for now, the American dream of homeownership is a dream deferred for many people. Growth in the number of households -- defined as families or unrelated people living together -- slowed last year, to 1.1 million, from an average of 1.4 million a year from 2000 to 2006, according to George Masnick, a researcher at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University. Economists say the growth rate will likely fall further in 2009.
Many of the vacant homes are concentrated in far-flung suburbs in the Southwest and in Florida, which means that prices there may not return to their highs for many years. It also suggests that much of the country does not have as large an oversupply of homes.
But for now even areas that did not see a boom in construction and home prices in recent years are suffering. Brad Hunter, chief economist at Metrostudy, a housing research firm, cited North Carolina as an example. From 2000 to 2006, home prices in Charlotte climbed only an average of 3.7 percent a year; but last year prices fell 7.2 percent.
One of his colleagues who works in the state told Mr. Hunter, ''We got the hangover but we never had the party.''
Troubled housing markets do not rebound quickly. The first thing to turn up are sales of homes as banks and individuals acknowledge that prices are no longer what they were; some of that is already happening in California and Florida.
Home prices tend to lag sales by a couple of years. That is what happened in Massachusetts and California in the early 1990s.
How long will the current slump last?
A futures market for home prices provides one sobering forecast. Trading in contracts that track home prices in 25 metropolitan areas suggests that home prices will fall about 15 percent this year and hit bottom in 2010, according to Radar Logic, a firm that created the index on which the trading is based. The market is also predicting that the Los Angeles area is closer to the bottom than New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christian Punsal, 24, bought this three-bedroom home in Elk Grove, Calif., for $193,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Predicting the Future of a Housing Crisis: The rate of housing vacancies reached its highest levels in the fourth quarter of 2008. As the recession has deepened, futures contract prices on one index of house prices have grown progressively worse, projecting a deeper downturn and longer recovery.
Vacant Housing Units: As a percentage of all units
Average U.S. Home Prices: RPX composite price per square foot. (Sources: Haver Analytics
 Radar Logic) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); SUBURBS (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



259 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Markets End Down Week on an Uptick

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Mark McDonald contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Wall Street ended a week of battering sell-offs on an mildly positive note as stock markets closed mostly higher despite a report showing that unemployment had surged to its highest level in 25 years.
Underscoring the sweep of economic declines, the government reported Friday morning that the unemployment rate rose to 8.1 percent in February after the economy lost 651,000 jobs. The job losses were not as stark as revised totals from December and January, and stocks initially surged before pulling back during the day and finally recovering at the close.
The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 32.50 points, or 0.5 percent, at 6,626.94, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.8 point, or 0.1 percent, to 683.38. The Nasdaq was down 0.4 percent at 1,293.85. 
For the week, the Dow fell 6 percent while the S.& P. 500 was down 7 percent. It was the fourth consecutive week of declines for both indexes.
Even with Friday's gains, analysts said stock markets were likely to grind lower and stay near their 12-year lows for some time as Wall Street looked for signs of improvement in the faltering economy, stability in the financial system or a clearer plan from Washington to shore up the big banks.
''People really want to buy,'' said Robert Francello, head of equity trading at Apex Capital. ''They're really looking for excuses to put money back to work. The huge problem is that we have an insolvent banking system that's not being 100 percent laser-focused on by the administration.''
Most financial shares continued to slump, and technology companies slipped after JPMorgan Chase cut its profit outlook for Apple, which fell 4 percent, to $85.30.
A 4 percent rise in crude oil prices, which increased $1.91, to $45.52 a barrel, helped pull up shares of energy companies like Exxon Mobil and Chevron.
General Electric rebounded after a long slide that cut its share price by nearly 80 percent from a year ago. Shares of G.E. gained 40 cents, or 6 percent, to $7.06 after analysts eased concerns that the company's capital arm would have to take big write-downs on its assets.
Shares of General Motors continued to fall on Friday, sliding 22 percent, to $1.45, a day after its auditors raised ''substantial doubt'' about the automaker's survival.
Analysts said Friday's grim employment numbers highlighted concerns that the economies in the United States and across the world were weaker than policy makers had thought.
Dan Greenhaus, an analyst with the equity strategy group of Miller Tabak & Company, wrote in a note to clients, ''Nobody has a handle on when we're going to emerge from this economic malaise, what the economic and societal landscape is going to look like and what earnings are going to be.''
Dwyfor Evans, a strategist at State Street Global Markets in Hong Kong, said he saw no likelihood of a consumer-driven lift to the United States economy in the near term.
''The macro environment is taking everything else down with it,'' Mr. Evans said. ''It's very, very difficult to find any green shoots of recovery.''
The biggest European exchanges -- in London, Paris and Frankfurt -- ended mixed after initially surging on the unemployment report.
Interest rates rose slightly. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note was down 17/32, at 98 30/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.87 percent, up from 2.81 percent late Thursday.
Following are the results of Friday's auction of 70-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); XOM (NYSE) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



260 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Housing Market's Upside: Affordability

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
HOUSES in the United States are now more affordable than at any time in the last 40 years, when compared with personal income.
Only a couple of years ago, home prices rose to clearly unsustainable multiples of income, and the abrupt change could hold out hope for a revival of the housing market. 
In the summer of 2005, when funny-money mortgages were readily available and helping to drive up home prices, the national median sales price of a home was almost eight times as much as the average per capita after-tax income of Americans.
But by this January, with incomes up and home prices down sharply, that multiple had fallen to less than five.
That may be little comfort for many homeowners who owe more than their homes are now worth, but it does indicate that home prices have fallen far enough, at least in many areas, to make them affordable.''You have a big debt overhang problem, but you don't have a house price problem anymore,'' said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG, an advisory firm.
Home prices vary widely from region to region, and people in areas like New York or Los Angeles can only dream of finding an acceptable home for $169,900, which the National Association of Realtors says was the median sales price of previously owned homes sold in January. That figure was down from a peak of $230,900 in July 2006. It is not clear that prices have declined enough to make houses broadly affordable in some regions.
National median prices can be misleading, particularly because more or fewer sales may be coming from high-cost or low-cost areas. Moreover, the volume of home sales has plunged. Many recent sales involved homes that were in or close to foreclosure, and may have been conducted at prices lower than the asking price for other homes in the area.
But it is also possible that the decline in the median price may understate the devastation that has befallen the housing market in some areas. In December, the latest figure available, the S.& P./Case-Shiller composite home price index for the 20 regions was off 27 percent from July 2006.
The personal income figures may also be high, since they are affected by government transfer payments and include significant increases in Medicaid and unemployment insurance payments. But the trend is the same even with transfer payments eliminated from the calculation.
Pressures are still forcing home prices down, including the difficulty of obtaining mortgages for prospective buyers who cannot meet the standards set by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled agencies that finance the bulk of new home loans now.
In addition, there was a lot of overbuilding in many areas, and even though construction has plunged, the inventory of unsold homes has stayed stubbornly high. Rising unemployment levels may discourage some who could buy from doing so.
But at least by one measure, home prices no longer appear to be high by historic standards. That fact could help to stimulate demand, if not immediately, then at least when the economy appears to stabilize.

GRAPHIC: CHART: MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE AS A MULTIPLE OF PER CAPITA DISPOSABLE INCOME: The median price of existing homes has fallen 26 percent since it peaked in July 2006, while disposable income has risen 9 percent. As a result, houses cost less relative to incomes than at any time since the data became available in 1968.(Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis and National Association of Realtors, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); MEDICAID (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



261 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: When Jobs Go Missing

 BODY:
The numbers in the jobs report for February were bad, but the trends were worse. More than half of the 4.4 million jobs lost since December 2007, when the recession began, vanished in the last four months. The unemployment rate has also surged to 8.1 percent last month from 7.6 percent in January -- and from 5.0 percent when the recession began. The ranks of the unemployed now total 12.5 million people. It's fortunate, then, that the nation's first line of defense against rising joblessness -- unemployment insurance -- was reinforced in the stimulus law that passed last month. 
 The law increases unemployment benefits by $25 a week and allows states to extend those benefits through the end of the year. It also provides $7 billion to the states to cover more than 500,000 workers -- often part-time, low-wage and female -- who are denied jobless benefits under outdated rules that apply in many states. Those states, of course, must reform their systems to specifically include those workers and to bring their programs more in line with federal guidelines. 
 Some Republican governors have resisted doing that, an act of grandstanding that does nothing but hurt their neediest constituents. Recently, however, several governors -- from California, Florida, Georgia and Utah -- and state legislatures have supported making the changes. Other states must step up soon to ensure that broad relief reaches unemployed workers in a timely way.
 Congress and the Obama administration must also be prepared to do more as unemployment worsens -- as it inevitably will in this contracting economy. In 11th-hour wrangling last month, a provision was struck from the stimulus bill that would have provided Medicaid coverage to unemployed workers who do not qualify or cannot afford to stay on their former employers' group health insurance. The measure should be reintroduced and passed into law.
 Indeed, all job-related policies should acknowledge that employment is unlikely to turn around anytime soon. That's because the economy's other headwinds -- the housing bust and the stock-market wipeout -- will delay any labor market recovery. With both sales and prices for homes declining in most places, many people who might otherwise move to take a new job are compelled to stay put, especially if a sale would not bring in enough money to pay off the mortgage. With stocks tanking, many workers are likely to postpone retirement, impairing upward mobility for other workers and crowding out new entrants to the work force. 
 That means that in addition to providing relief for today's unemployed, greater emphasis must be placed on job training and retraining and on better education at all levels. If a job slump is short and shallow, old jobs come back. If it is long and deep, like the current one, some old jobs never return and even some industries never revive. That makes it imperative to prepare as a nation for the prospect of a vastly different future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MEDICAID (75%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (68%); HOME PRICES (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



262 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 40 words

HEADLINE: CORRECTIONS

 BODY:
An article on Wednesday about potential threats to the banking industry in Switzerland misstated, in some editions, the size of commercial bank assets in the United States relative to gross domestic product. It is 70 percent, not 0.7 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (71%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



263 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times for Flower Shows, Long an Urban Whiff of Spring

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
In March 1929, unaware that the start of the Great Depression was just months away, the Massachusetts Horticultural Society staged a flower show for its centennial with lavish abandon.
 ''A desert garden valued at $25,000 has been brought all the way from California,'' a New York Times correspondent marveled, noting waterfalls, forests, houses with backyards and a rambling tropical garden. ''Remarkable acacia trees reach from floor to ceiling across one of the wide walls of the Great Hall. It really is magnificent.'' 
 The annual spectacle, known as the New England Flower Show, survived the Depression era and all the way to 2008, motivating winter-whipped Bostonians to endure the last desperate weeks of the season with over-the-top exhibits. 
 But this year, when an early glimpse of sweet peas or a whiff of lilac might be more urgently needed than ever, the show is gone. So, too, are flower shows in Bangor, Me.; Allentown, Pa.; and Cleveland, victims of the economic crisis and shifting demographics.
 The Greater New York Orchid Society has canceled its annual show, a rite of spring in Manhattan, ''due to a variety of circumstances beyond our control,'' according to its Web site. In addition, longtime flower shows in Seattle and San Francisco will end this year if their founder, who said he could no longer bear the financial risk, cannot find a buyer. 
 In Maine, Scott Wilkerson, whose nonprofit group, Keep Bangor Beautiful, has run the show there since 1991, said: ''We've had increasing costs and decreasing revenues. We basically just fell on the sword and said, 'Hey, this is more than we can handle without gardening ourselves into the poorhouse.' ''
 The loss of the Boston flower show, which is older and more celebrated than any other in the nation but Philadelphia's, has been especially hard to bear. The horticultural society, known as Mass Hort, is one of Boston's most storied institutions, once fabulously rich but now hobbled by mismanagement.
 Its former building, a Victorian behemoth across from Symphony Hall, is a testament to its historic importance, as is its claim to introducing the Concord grape, the Bartlett pear and the concept of garden cemeteries. 
 In the late 1800s, membership was said to be enough of a guarantee of affluence to qualify women for department store credit accounts.
 But Boston Brahmins stopped showering bequests on the society as their ranks thinned and competing interests grew. Because of periodic financial crises over the past 30 years, Mass Hort sold a magazine it published, Horticulture, and most of its rare-book collection. It lost the title to its building in 1991 and moved to the suburbs a few years later.
 The society's reputation suffered further when its plan to raise tens of millions of dollars for a glass-enclosed garden above the highway tunnels of the Big Dig failed. 
 Last year, after its trustees learned that their new director had been jailed in 2007 after not paying back wages to employees at a former firm, the organization fired most of its staff, froze payments to creditors and called off the flower show for the first time in 137 years. 
 In an Internal Revenue Service filing from 2007, the group said it made $3.28 million that year but spent $4.85 million. It reported that the flower show, which charged adults $20 for admission, cost nearly $2 million and lost money.
 Paul Miskovsky, a trustee, said the show might return but not until the 8,000-member society got back on firm ground.
 ''We need to settle our past scores and get our house in order,'' said Mr. Miskovsky, a landscape designer from North Falmouth.
 Duane Kelly, who founded the San Francisco Flower and Garden Show and the Northwest Flower and Garden Show in the 1980s, said the shows are as expensive as staging a play on Broadway, complete with elaborate lighting and scenery. 
 ''Twenty years ago, it was invigorating, and now it's just draining,'' said Mr. Kelly, 59, whose final San Francisco show will begin March 18. ''It's lost its appeal.''
 But the financial crisis, which has affected things as disparate as sponsorship of flower shows and the amount of greenhouse space that growers can afford to heat, is only part of the problem, Mr. Kelly said. Attendance at his shows has been dropping for some time, a trend he attributes to baby boomers' aging and their children's embracing gardening for different reasons, if at all.
 While Mr. Kelly said he saw ''tremendous interest'' among younger generations, he said they were putting off gardening -- as well as buying homes and having children -- longer than their parents did. Younger people are also less interested in the aesthetics of gardening and more in the environmental benefits, like composting, he said.
 They are also more likely to look for gardening tips and inspiration on the Internet than at flower shows. That, to Mr. Kelly, is a pity.
 ''Gardening is extremely visceral,'' he said. ''You want to smell, you want to see firsthand, you want to touch. The first time I went to the Philadelphia and Boston shows, I was transported from the end of winter to the middle of May or June. It was a very heady experience.'' 
 All is not lost for flower shows -- Philadelphia's is drawing thousands to the Pennsylvania Convention Center this week, and Chicago's is on for next week. The people behind some of the canceled shows plan to bring them back next year, and Mr. Kelly said he was ''fairly optimistic'' that someone would continue his.
 In Boston, the horticultural society's trustees decided at the last minute to put on a miniature show this month, with donated exhibits in three downtown buildings and at three malls. David Haskell, a grower in New Bedford, is forcing lilacs, lobelias and azaleas to bloom in his 90-degree greenhouse for the event. 
 ''It's something I always looked forward to since I could walk,'' Mr. Haskell said of the canceled show, at which his father started exhibiting in 1953. ''You usually do what your customers want. But with the flower show, you have your own blank palette.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(A1)
Flower shows have long been an attraction in Boston.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ''HISTORY OF THE MASSACHUSETTS HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY'')
Paul Miskovsky, a landscape designer, said the Massachusetts Horticulture Society needed to get its financial house in order.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 For businesses like Mr. Miskovsky's, the financial crisis is affecting not just shows but how much space can be heated.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORTICULTURE (91%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); GARDENING (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); RETAILERS (60%); WEB SITES (51%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BANGOR, ME, USA (72%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (72%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



264 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BUSHWICK JOURNAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Please, Step Into My Art Gallery (Don't Mind the Coffee Table)

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
There are drawbacks to putting an art gallery in one's living room, among them having to keep the floors spotless and hide dirty socks. But there are definite benefits, too: no overhead, for one, which comes in handy if the art market, in keeping with most other markets these days, happens to sputter to a halt. 
 In Bushwick, Brooklyn, galleries owned and run by artists have sprouted over the past few years in living rooms as well as in storefronts and factory spaces. Unlike gallery owners in Chelsea or SoHo, many of these artists-slash-gallerists have an extra layer of insulation against the spiraling recession. Most have full-time jobs and said their motive for showing art was just that: to show art. 
 ''I never set out to do this for commercial gain, so I'm not dealing with the same kind of commercial pressures as Manhattan,'' said Jason Irwin, who runs a gallery called Privateer in his small studio apartment, off Flushing Avenue. 
 Mr. Irwin, an artist himself who has a paid job working for the conceptual artist Fred Wilson, most recently showed work by Ellie Murphy, whose eight-foot-tall macrame-like yarn hanging one could imagine in a museum but probably would not expect to buy, or sell. He opened the gallery in October, showing his own sculptural pieces as well as work by other artists from as far away as Los Angeles.
 ''Out here, it's really about art and about artists,'' he explained. ''It's more of a grass-roots kind of thing, of getting back to the basics, of finding good work and putting it up, without the ulterior agenda of selling it.''
 Being indifferent about whether art sells is a curious stance for a gallerist, especially given the buying frenzy that has swept New York's art world in recent years. Certainly not every gallery in Bushwick takes such a position: The director of the Ad Hoc gallery, Andrew Michael Ford, said he was deeply concerned, and likened the rate of sales lately to ''dropping off a cliff.'' (Ad Hoc's owner, Garrison Buxton, said he would be encouraging artists to produce smaller pieces -- which he can sell at lower prices. ''We would be foolish not to,'' Mr. Buxton said.)
 Yet many artists say they moved to Bushwick not only for its cheap rent and abundant empty studio spaces but also for a respite from the feverish Manhattan art scene. The community is punctuated by lower-key events like a recent gallery walk in which about 150 people trudged through a blustery night among seven spots, two of them in people's homes. Since many of the gallery owners have day jobs, some of the spaces are open only on weekends or by appointment. 
 Jason Andrew, who organized the walk, escorted visitors through his apartment, where spotlights glinted off the white walls and the spotless honey-colored wood floors, and into his bedrooms, where oil paintings by a young artist, Brook Moyse, hung.
 ''If you think about the old days, this is how galleries used to work,'' said Mr. Andrew, who runs a nonprofit arts organization, Norte Maar, and began showing work at home about two years ago. ''Nobody had any money. Nobody was buying art. They were all looking at art.'' 
 Among the art-for-art's-sake gallerists of Bushwick are Ali Ha and Ad DeVille, a couple who opened Factory Fresh in an old bodega on Flushing Avenue last June. The pair had run the Orchard Street Gallery out of their living room on the Lower East Side for four years, until their building was converted to condominiums in 2006.
 They bought a building in Bushwick, showing their own and other people's art in the bodega and living in the same building. Mr. DeVille sells his prints, paintings, silk-screens and graphic designs, and Ms. Ha works full time at a graphic design firm in SoHo.
 ''We're not really running it as a business where we need to profit. It's not all about the final sale,'' Mr. DeVille said. ''The main focus of any gallery should be to show art as opposed to selling it.''
 When people ask whether the gallery is hurting because of the economy, his answer, almost invariably, is no.
 ''We never really sold that much stuff before, and we're not selling that much stuff now,'' he said. ''People always brag about selling art. To us, that doesn't seem like such an accomplishment.''
 In many ways, several artists and gallerists said, Bushwick has become the sort of vibrant and scruffy artist community that SoHo and the East Village were in decades past. It is unclear how long that will last -- newcomers and locals are already wary of what gentrification and further development portend -- but the economic downturn could slow that change, too. 
 For now, they are enjoying a little art world that is defined by the artists.
 ''The marketplace wasn't about artists, it was about the money,'' said Austin Thomas, an artist who owns Pocket Utopia, a gallery that occupies an old storefront on Flushing Avenue. ''I opened an artists' space to put artists back into the equation.'' 
 Though Bushwick's recent gallery walk was considered a success -- people came, they saw art -- Mr. Andrew said he was not sure when he would organize another one. ''We don't want to be another Williamsburg, where every Thursday or Friday you know you can go,'' he said. ''We're not into the whole hype. We do it for ourselves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Irwin runs an art gallery called Privateer in his apartment, one of several nontraditional galleries in homes, storefronts and factory spaces in Bushwick.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); ART DEALERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); RETAILERS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



265 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: 6 Years In, Troops Glimpse Real Path Out of Iraq

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Steven Lee Myers reported from Mahmudiya, Baghdad and Diyala and Nineveh Provinces. Marc Santora contributed reporting from Camp Bucca in southern Iraq, and Thom Shanker from Washington.

DATELINE: MAHMUDIYA, Iraq 

 BODY:
As he returned to base here after a day patrolling a place once called the Triangle of Death, Capt. Landgrove T. Smith of the First Battalion, 63rd Armor, summarized the war in Iraq in a way that would once have been unthinkable.
 ''We're in the endgame now,'' he said.
 President Obama's plan to withdraw American forces called for the end of combat operations by August 2010, but here in Mahmudiya, as in many parts of Iraq, the war is effectively over already, the contours of an exit strategy having taken clearer shape than at any time before. 
 There is no guarantee that Iraq will remain stable, that the nihilistic violence of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia will not continue, or that the sectarian bloodletting of 2006 and 2007 will not return. Crucial questions about how to share political power and oil money are not yet answered. While Iraq's security forces have greatly improved, they remain heavily dependent on the Americans. 
 Still, as an economic depression often becomes clear only in hindsight, so have the changes in the American war effort. 
 Attacks are at the lowest level since September 2003, falling 70 percent since last March. Scores of outposts have closed as American forces regroup on larger bases as a prelude to withdrawing from virtually all cities by June. Commanders at Camp Bucca in southern Iraq plan to close the American prison there, turning its inmates over to the Iraqi authorities, and are considering using the base as a way station for troops heading home.
 In Iraq today, on the eve of the war's sixth anniversary, only two significant combat operations are under way -- one in Mosul and one in Diyala. Neither is on the scale of operations during the worst months of the war, and in both, the Iraqi Army has the lead. 
 The main mission has instead shifted almost entirely from combat to stability operations, from fighting insurgents to rebuilding Iraq's services and shattered economy in a way that could offer a better chance for the country to succeed, making America's exit more like a victory than a retreat. 
 The task now involves the sort of effort that former President George W. Bush initially sought to discredit: nation building. It means ceding real control to Iraq's government, something the United States has previously done more in word than in deed. 
 ''We need to take our hands off the handlebars, or the training wheels, at some point,'' Maj. Gen. David G. Perkins, the chief American military spokesman, said Monday. 
 The biggest change, commanders say, has been the new security agreement between the United States and Iraq that explicitly put the Iraqis in charge of military operations beginning Jan. 1. That reduced, by design, the American role.
 Since then, the Iraqis have planned and carried out security for the provincial elections on Jan. 31, which took place with strikingly little violence, and for an annual pilgrimage of millions of Shiites to Karbala last month, which was marred by a series of attacks. 
 As Mr. Obama said in announcing his withdrawal plan, there will still be combat operations, and with them, casualties. Since Inauguration Day, 26 Americans have died in Iraq, 17 of them from hostile fire. The deputy commander in the north, Brig. Gen. Robert B. Brown, described Al Qaeda as ''a dying snake,'' though one that still has ''a punch.'' As the Iraqis take the lead, though, fewer American casualties are likely to come from direct clashes with enemy fighters. 
 In interviews over recent weeks, commanders and soldiers cautioned against overconfidence and, worse, complacency. 
 They said much work remained before the war could be declared won. That caution informed recommendations by the senior American commander, Gen. Ray Odierno, to keep as large a force as possible through national parliamentary elections scheduled for December. 
 American military headquarters in Baghdad is expected to announce this weekend that two brigades scheduled to rotate home this summer will not be replaced. That will reduce the number of combat brigades left in Iraq to 12.
 Iraq's security forces still require significant training, not to mention basic intelligence, airpower, medical care and logistics that, for now, only the Americans can provide. Those functions will fall to the force of 35,000 to 50,000 that Mr. Obama announced would remain after the August 2010 deadline, though those Americans, too, are to withdraw before the end of 2011. The national election, in which Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki is vying for a second term, is viewed as the crucial test of Iraq's democratic transition, the moment that could prove the country's ability to sustain itself. Or security could crumble, as factions struggle for power and ethnic and sectarian divisions flare.
 ''I don't think there is any illusion by anyone that this is by any means over,'' said Maj. Gen. Guy C. Swan III, General Odierno's operations director. ''In fact this may be the most fragile time in the six years we've been here.''
 More than 140,000 American troops remain in Iraq -- more than the level before President Bush's ''surge'' in 2007 -- and the still unanswerable question is what kind of Iraq will be left behind when most of them are gone. 
 ''What is good enough in Iraq, to say that we can pull out in 18, 19 months?'' asked Col. Burt K. Thompson, commander of the First Stryker Brigade of the 25th Infantry Division at Forward Operation Base Warhorse in Diyala. 
 Mr. Obama's plan, however, set a deadline -- and for more than just combat operations. It has now given commanders a finite window in which to empower Iraq's security forces. 
 At Forward Operating Base Sykes, in northern Iraq, that is already happening. 
 When the commander, Lt. Col. Guy B. Parmeter of the Third Brigade of the First Cavalry Division, arrived in December, he invited Iraqi officers into his operations center, instead of isolating them in a separate office. The Iraqis and the Americans now work together so closely that one of Colonel Parmeter's captains discusses plans with his Iraqi counterpart by Yahoo instant messaging. 
 ''You know they're going to stop the clock,'' Colonel Parmeter said, ''and you've got to get as far as you can.''
 The capabilities of Iraq's army and police forces -- their professionalism, skills, equipment -- vary from province to province, as do the threats. 
 In Mahmudiya, Captain Smith was nearly run over by a battered Nissan truck carrying Iraqi soldiers. The truck, its brakes apparently having failed, skidded and hit a median where the captain stood -- in what was a striking breakdown of discipline or equipment maintenance. 
 In most of Iraq, Captain Smith's patrol that day last month has become the norm, not the exception. 
 He and his soldiers stopped by an Iraqi Army headquarters to discuss a proposal to train sergeants. They visited the market to check on a furniture maker who had received an American grant. They intended to pick up a receipt for a sign they had made announcing the reopening of highway next to the American base, but Captain Smith's lieutenant had forgotten the necessary paperwork. 
 ''Iraq is safe,'' Colonel Wassin Saedi of Iraq's 25th Brigade told Captain Smith. ''This is the right time for you to leave.''
 Increasingly, the Americans are doing so. Until last fall, six American battalions -- more than 5,000 soldiers -- patrolled the region southwest of Baghdad that stretches from Mahmudiya to the Euphrates. One battalion does now.
 The Americans have already closed a dozen bases around Mahmudiya, leaving 1,000 soldiers at the main base, just north of the city. 
 Memorials around the base honor soldiers who died serving here, but there has not been a combat death in the region since last March. At a recent staff meeting, the only casualty reported was a sergeant who had twisted his ankle playing basketball.
 Lt. Col. Jim M. Bradford, commander of the First Battalion, 63rd Armor, said what he now faced were ''good problems.'' The Iraqis, he said as an example, are carrying out raids without telling him. 
 ''It's not unusual for us to wake up in the morning and learn the Iraqi Army did a search last night, and then we're running around trying to figure out what happened,'' he said. ''The good part is they're doing it.''
 When asked whether the American troops could leave Mahmudiya, Colonel Bradford reacted cautiously, but then he said the conditions were being set for that day. ''Inshallah, God willing, creek don't rise,'' he said. 
 Barring a dramatic worsening of conditions, Mahmudiya could then be a model for the end of the American war in Iraq. 
 ''We're drawing down,'' said Michael Clayton, an expert from the United States Department of Agriculture who since last fall has overseen the effort to restart the poultry industry around Mahmudiya, providing jobs and income for a beleaguered, oil-dependent economy. Missions like his have an even greater urgency with Mr. Obama's deadline. 
 ''There's talk even of next year being out of here,'' Mr. Clayton said. ''The light at the end of the tunnel is there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The United States plans to close its prison at Camp Bucca and turn the inmates over to the Iraqis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEHAD NGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
An American soldier in Mahmudiya photographed Sunni patrol members last month. Iraq is taking over payroll duties. Additional photos: nytimes.com/world.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEHAD NGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A7) CHART: Security Transition: American military deaths in Iraq have been declining, and the most dangerous provinces have been the last to be handed over to Iraqi security forces.(Sources: Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction
 Iraq Coalition Casualty Count)(A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (75%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



266 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2854 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times,: March 7, 2009

 BODY:
International
 IN A DISPUTED MIDEAST LAND, 
 Rocks and Sand Turn Precious
 The land of the West Bank is, of course, disputed. Israel occupies it, and the Palestinians want it for a future state. But more and more of it is being quarried by Israeli companies, crushed into gravel and sand, and sold for building materials all across Israel, a practice that is the focus of a new legal challenge by the Israeli rights group Yesh Din. PAGE A5 
 ZIMBABWE LEADER'S WIFE DIES
 The prime minister of Zimbabwe, Morgan Tsvangirai, was injured and his wife, Susan, above,was fatally injured in a car crash about 45 miles south of the capital. The crash has stirred deep suspicions in his party, coming less than a month after he was sworn in as prime minister in a tense power-sharing government with his rival, President Robert Mugabe. PAGE A5 
 THE OUTBREAK AT THE FAT DUCK
 The Fat Duck in Bray, Berkshire, which has three Michelin stars and is perhaps Britain's most celebrated restaurant, is now closed after a mysterious outbreak caused hundreds of people in the last month to report becoming violently sick with projectile vomiting, sudden diarrhea and flulike symptoms. PAGE A6 
 AVIATION THREAT STIRS SOUTH KOREA
 South Korea lashed out after a warning from North Korea appeared to threaten civilian planes traveling through the region. While hectoring comments, often in inflammatory language, are routinely made by North Korea, the threat caused enough uncertainty that three airlines announced they were rerouting some flights. PAGE A6 
 BUILDING A BASE FOR INDIA'S WOMEN
 Ela Bhatt is a Gandhian pragmatist fighting for women at the bottom of India's social ladder who are striving for economic freedom. She opened the country's first women's bank, helped artisans sell their handiwork to new urban department stores, and lent working capital to entrepreneurs to open beauty salons in the slums. PAGE A6 
 A U.S. GIFT LOST IN TRANSLATION 
 The United States and Russia tried to mend their frayed relationship by having their top diplomats sit down to dinner. Before the appetizer was served, the diplomatic first date had gotten off to an awkward start because of a gag gift gone awry. A7 
 DEADLOCK OVER SUDAN
 The Security Council deadlocked on Friday over taking any action amid the tempest that erupted over the indictment of President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan on war crimes charges and his subsequent expulsion of 13 aid organizations. PAGE A8
 INQUIRY INTO DEATHS IN KENYA
 The United States and a senior United Nations official have called for an independent investigation into the murder of two prominent human rights activists in Kenya, shot to death at close range while their car was blocked in heavy traffic in Nairobi. PAGE A8 
 National
 SUPREME COURT LIMITS AUTHORITY 
 Of President on Detainees
 The Supreme Court wiped away one of the Bush administration's greatest victories in the lower courts, a 2008 ruling that expanded the limits of executive authority to combat terrorism by allowing indefinite military detentions of legal residents of the United States. PAGE A9
 GOVERNOR'S CONVICTION UPHELD
 A federal appeals court panel in Atlanta unanimously upheld the bribery conviction of former Alabama Gov. Don Siegelman, adding weight to a prosecution that Democrats have contended was an example of the political use of the courts during the Bush administration. The three-judge panel said there was enough evidence to convict Mr. Siegelman of bribery for having appointed a campaign contributor to a state hospital licensing board. PAGE A9
 OBAMA SALUTES JOBS
 President Obama traveled to Columbus, Ohio, to salute the hiring of 25 police recruits whose jobs were saved by the $787 billion recovery plan he signed into law last month. The visit came amid another grim report on jobs, and he braced Americans for tougher weeks ahead. PAGE A10
 FACING STUBBORN OPPOSITION
 Democrats in Congress have been stymied by Republicans and a few Democratic defectors in what began as a fairly routine push to enact overdue spending bills, providing them with a quick and humbling lesson in the limits of their new power. A news analysis. PAGE A11
 CHANGING TACK ON HEALTH CARE
 Two labor unions, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and the Service Employees International Union, have pulled out of a broad coalition seeking agreement on major changes in the health care system -- illustrating the difficulty of reaching agreement on some of the debate's knottiest issues. PAGE A12
 LAWYERS PUSH FOR CASE'S DISMISSAL
 Lawyers for the Obama administration struggled to persuade a federal judge to throw out an unusual civil lawsuit brought by Jose Padilla, an American citizen who was held in isolation for three years as an enemy combatant, against John C. Yoo, the former government lawyer whose memorandums on torture had been used by the Bush administration to justify sweeping policies on detention and interrogation. PAGE A13
 DEBATE OVER WOLF'S STATUS
 The Obama administration announced that it would take the gray wolf off the endangered species list in Montana and Idaho, but would leave the animal under federal protection in Wyoming. The move has split ranchers and environmentalists, who disagree over whether populations are robust enough to allow hunting. PAGE A13
 Man Takes Life After Killings A14
 New York
 DEMOCRATIC STRATEGISTS AGONIZE
 But Defect to Bloomberg
 Some of the nation's top Democratic strategists recruited by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's re-election campaign are finding that even in an era of supposedly postpartisan city politics, a decision to cross party lines can be wrenching. The hiring underscores how unsettled some Democrats feel about the state of their party in a liberal bastion where they outnumber Republicans but have not controlled City Hall in 15 years. PAGE A15 
 SALES OF HOME SAFES BOOM
 A big expensive cube to store cash and valuables might not seem high on a recessionary shopping list. But sellers of safes said that business was up as customers were confronting new fears, be they losing money in failing banks or being robbed by desperate fellow New Yorkers. PAGE A15 
 Business
 AGREEMENT SETS STAGE
 For Madoff Plea Deal
 Taking one step closer to his day in court, the money manager Bernard L. Madoff has agreed to waive his right to a formal grand jury review of accusations that he conducted a worldwide Ponzi scheme. The agreement sets the stage for a plea agreement between Mr. Madoff and federal prosecutors, who have been negotiating with his lawyers since his arrest. PAGE B1 
 PARENTS SUE OVER SCHOOL'S CLOSING
 After the trustees of the Conserve School in Wisconsin said they were essentially shutting down their program because of the dismal economy, parents have banded together to challenge the action in a lawsuit, contending that the school's underlying financial condition did not look so dire and that the trustees were instead acting out of their own interests. PAGE B1 
 RETAILERS STRUGGLE TO PRESENT CALM
 The chiefs of the nation's retail chains face a dilemma in telling investors the truth about their abysmal sales and eroding profit margins. But to avoid provoking a panic, some are giving the performances of their lives, striving to instill confidence not only among skittish stock-market investors but also among the suppliers who keep them alive by shipping them merchandise on faith. PAGE B1 
 FAR CRY FROM INDIA'S ASCETIC FATHER
 Favoring cowboy hats, imported cigars, Mercedes and Jaguars, Vijay Mallya, the chairman of the conglomerate UB Group, seems an unlikely go-between for property belonging to the spiritual father of independent India. An airline and liquor tycoon, Mr. Mallya bought Gandhi's personal effects in a controversial auction in New York but said he planned to give the items to the Indian government. PAGE B2 
 ROCHE RAISES BID FOR GENENTECH
 The Swiss drug giant Roche raised its hostile offer to buy out the biotechnology company Genentech to $93 a share, from $86.50. PAGE B3 
 Arts
 NONPROFIT MAGAZINE CARRIES TORCH
 Through Print's Dark Times
 Mother Jones, the left-leaning nonprofit magazine, has viewed itself as a defender of independent journalism free from corporate meddling. But in the current economic downturn and plight of print industry, Mother Jones, although suffering itself, sees itself as a defender of journalism, period. PAGE C1 
 ANOTHER TRIP TO BYGONE BRITAIN
 ''Life on Mars,'' the 1970s moody British paranormal police show has spawned a sequel, ''Ashes to Ashes.'' Occurring eight years later, when Britain is arguably a lot more interesting, the show engages the mounting antipathies of the working class, the growth of privatization and development, and the fury over nuclear armament, Ginia Bellafante writes. PAGE C1 
 PH.D'S ANTICIPATE HARD TIMES
 Full-time faculty jobs have not been easy to come by, but this year, a new crop of Ph.D. candidates is finding a worse time than ever. Public universities are bracing for severe cuts and private colleges' endowments are plunging in the financial recession, causing a chill at many higher education institutions, where partial or full-fledged hiring freezes have been imposed. PAGE C1 
 ART FAIRS ADJUST TO THE ECONOMY
 As a newly sober art world sizes up this weekend's Armory Show, many are wondering about the fates of the concurrent smaller fairs: What prospects do Volta, Pulse and Scope have in a crippled economy? Those that remain are employing new strategies, some of which seem more capitalistic than avant-garde. PAGE C1 
 CRIME SOLVERS WITH CHEMISTRY
 ''Castle,'' a new drama on ABC, is about a by-the-book cop who must work with a devil-may-care novelist researching his next book. It is one of the newest twists on a formula that has plenty of company on television these days: pairing of opposites with a healthy dose of sexual tension PAGE C1 
 Inside Reviews 
 Pirouetting with Attitude C3 
 POWER, CLARITY AND RANGE AT PIANO
 Just getting used to the pianist Evgeny Kissin's power and clarity can be overwhelming, but the recital he gave at Carnegie Hall on Thursday night, devoted half to music by Prokofiev and the other half by Chopin, revealed an orchestral range of colors and a nearly imperceptible sensation of breathy flexibility, Steve Smith writes. PAGE C5 
 BLENDING JAZZ WITH CLASSICAL
 Michel Legrand, the French jazz pianist and composer as well as multiple Oscar winner is playing a rare New York engagement at Birdland, and Stephen Holden writes, it's an unwieldy mixture of classical, jazz and Hollywood. PAGE C5 
 Spirals at the Guggenheim C5 
 Spotlight on Real-Life Extras C6 
 Sports
 MINDFUL OF PAST UPSET,
 U.S. Prepares for Canada
 Chipper Jones, Derek Jeter and their American teammates have had three years to live down their loss to Canada in the first round of the first World Baseball Classic in 2006, and the Canadians have had three years to exult about sticking it to the Yanks. Now the United States gets its chance again on Saturday, this time in the hub of Canada, George Vecsey writes. PAGE D1 
 A KNACK FOR HOOKING RATTLERS
 Unlike many snake hunters, Eric Carl Timaeus carries no weapon, preferring to coax live prey into his bag with a dull metal hook in the manner of a charmer. For such sport, Timaeus has been rewarded with utter dominance and he has compiled nine consecutive titles in the length competition at the Sweetwater Jaycees Rattlesnake Roundup, founded in 1958 and held each March in West Texas. PAGE D1
 ROOTED IN CENTRAL PARK'S SANDLOT
 An All-Star for the Chicago Cubs and one of the best young catchers in baseball, Geovany Soto will play his next significant game this weekend for Puerto Rico in the World Baseball Classic. But long before Soto burst upon the major leagues, batting .285 with 23 home runs and 86 runs batted in and winning Rookie of the Year honors, his first years playing were in Central Park in Manhattan. PAGE D2 
 FROM YANKEE TO PANAMA'S ENVOY
 Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera, recovering from shoulder surgery, cannot play in the World Baseball Classic. But he still traveled to San Juan, P.R., for two days to don the uniform and to warm up with Panama for the 16-team tournament. PAGE D3 
 STAR DRIVES HUSKIES CLOSE TO TITLE
 The height-challenged University of Washington Huskies basketball team, ranked 16th, is not known for its defense or outside shooting. But if they beat Washington State on Saturday, aided by the endearing engine of an unlikely champion, the 6-foot-7 forward Jon Brockman, they will win the Pac-10 title outright for the first time since 1953. PAGE D5 
 N.C.A.A. PENALIZES FLORIDA STATE
 The N.C.A.A. has ruled that Florida State was guilty of major violations in a widespread academic fraud case involving 61 athletes, uncovered in 2007, and announced that it would strip scholarships from 10 teams and force those teams to vacate all of the victories in 2006 and 2007 in which the implicated athletes participated. In addition, the college was placed on probation for four years. PAGE D5 
 Obituaries
 JAMES BELLOWS, 86
 In a newspaper career that spanned 34 years, his insistence on stylish writing and bold, clean graphics promoted the New Journalism movement while he was the editor of three major newspapers, including The New York Herald Tribune.
 PAGE A19 
 Editorial
 WHEN JOBS GO MISSING
 The numbers in the jobs report for February were bad, but the trends were worse. It's fortunate, then, that the nation's first line of defense against rising joblessness -- unemployment insurance -- was reinforced in the stimulus law that passed last month. Congress and the Obama administration must also be prepared to do more as unemployment worsens, as it inevitably will. PAGE A20
 HOLDING MR. BASHIR ACCOUNTABLE
 After the International Criminal Court this week issued an arrest warrant against Sudan's ever-ruthless leader on war crimes, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, he ordered the expulsion of international aid groups, which keep millions of Sudanese alive with food and medical care. If Mr. Bashir does not reverse the expulsion, it should be considered added proof of his guilt. PAGE A20
 THE ROVE-MIERS DEAL
 The House Judiciary Committee has hammered out what appears to be a good deal to compel Karl Rove and Harriet Miers to testify about the United States attorneys scandal. It makes a few unfortunate concessions. The agreement is strong where it matters -- requiring the two former Bush administration officials to testify under oath. PAGE A20
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 President Obama is being hammered from the left, right and center. But miracles take time. PAGE A19
 GAIL COLLINS
 One of Michael Steele's most profound problems is a conviction that the Republican Party can become cool. The Democratic Party is barely cool, and it has Barack Obama. PAGE A21
 CHARLES M. BLOW
 The percentage of Americans who view the Republican Party positively is at an all-time low, and Republican leaders are doing themselves no favors by bickering and cowering. PAGE A21
 HOME-GROWN POWER
 President Obama is wise to push renewable energy and new ''smart grids'' for distributing it, Ian Bowles, the Massachusetts secretary of energy, writes in an Op-Ed article. But Congress should not add costly cross-country power lines to the president's plan, because it will be less expensive to produce renewable energy in every part of the country and distribute it locally. PAGE A21
 This Weekend
 TRAVEL
 Some of the romance of train travel in America might have faded, but there are still benefits to riding the rails. A cross-country trip on an Amtrak train allows one man a chance to reconnect with his country and the people living in it. Page 1
 THE MAGAZINE
 The next stage of the national foreclosure crisis is how towns and cities will deal with blocks of empty houses, abandoned neighborhoods and trolling pillagers. Cleveland got there first, and that's Tony Brancatelli's problem. Page 28 
 ARTS & LEISURE
 Dwayne Johnson has a little ways to go before his name outlives his current legacy as the action star and former professional wrestler The Rock. But the strategy is already in motion to land Mr. Johnson on Hollywood's top tier. Page 1 
 When the British artist Steve McQueen set out to direct his first feature film, he chose Bobby Sands, an imprisoned Irish nationalist who starved himself to death. The viscera of protest and imprisonment are laid open, and the film accomplishes something much starker than a conventional docudrama, Dennis Lim writes. Page 11
 T: MEN'S FASHION
 It's all about ... Martin Kippenberger, Jesus sandals, the return of the windbreaker, machine-parts furniture, Harri Peccinotti, design-worthy sound systems, posh squatters and William S. Burroughs. Page 37 
 BOOK REVIEW
 ''The Vagrants,'' by Yiyun Li, takes place in Mao Zedong's China. Beginning with an execution, the book has an unrelenting eye that follows a few typical people. This is an anthology of horror stories, but not of the monster variety. Rather, here are the consequences of a society gone mad. Page 1 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WOMEN (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); WAR CRIMES (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); SAND & GRAVEL MINING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); SHOOTINGS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); INDICTMENTS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); MURDER (55%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (50%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); KENYA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



267 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Desert's Sand and Rocks Become Precious Resources in West Bank Dispute

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

DATELINE: BEITAR ILIT, West Bank 

 BODY:
Boulders the size of compact cars are carved out here at a vast quarry near Bethlehem and pushed noisily through grinders, producing gravel and sand that go into apartment buildings in this rapidly growing Israeli settlement and all across Israel itself. 
 The land of the West Bank is, of course, disputed. Israel occupies it, and the Palestinians want it for a future state. But more and more of it is gone -- quarried by Israeli companies and sold for building materials, a practice that is the focus of a new legal challenge. 
 ''Israel is transferring natural resources from the West Bank for Israeli benefit, and this is absolutely prohibited not only under international law but according to Israeli Supreme Court rulings,'' said Michael Sfard, lawyer for the Israeli rights group Yesh Din, which is bringing the case to the high court next week. ''This is an illegal transfer of land in the most literal of senses.''
 Sand and rocks might seem like trivial resources in a country that is half desert. But with strict environmental restrictions on quarrying because of the noise and dust produced, they turn out to be surprisingly valuable. Building contractors are often caught in the Negev Desert stealing them by the truckload in the dead of night. A 2008 government study predicted a serious shortage of raw building materials within a decade. 
 So the 10 or so expanding West Bank quarries that are the focus of the legal challenge now account for nearly a quarter of the sand and gravel Israel uses, 10 million tons out of 44 million yearly. Palestinians are incensed and say that if there is ever to be a prospering Palestinian economy, control over their natural resources is essential. 
 ''This is causing harm in a real way,'' said Sam Bahour, a Palestinian entrepreneur and businessman in Ramallah. ''It is an example of the way in which economic interests in Israel are perpetuating the occupation. It makes it so much harder to end.''
 The Fourth Hague Convention of 1907 states that occupying powers may not remove natural resources, and that any gain obtained from their exploitation must be kept in a designated fund for the local population. That is how the United States military handles oil in Iraq. 
 Since the status of the West Bank before Israel won it in the 1967 war is unclear -- it was occupied by Jordan after 1948 -- many Israeli legal experts say it is wrong to consider the West Bank a classically occupied territory. The Israeli Supreme Court has declined to rule on the legality of Israeli settlements, deeming them a political question even though legal experts abroad consider them illegal. 
 Still, Israel's justices have generally issued rulings on the occupation that parallel international law. In the early 1980s, they said that a road could not be built here if it did not benefit the Palestinians.
 ''A region apprehended in fighting is not an open field for economic exploitation,'' the court said.
 The trade association that represents Israel's quarrying companies says that everything they do here is in keeping both with international law and with the regulations set down by the Israeli military, which controls the West Bank.
 ''Royalties are paid, and they are reinvested in the territories and that benefits the Palestinians,'' said Dan Catarivas, director of foreign trade for the Manufacturers Association of Israel. ''Most of what is quarried is used in the territories themselves, and that, too, is for the benefit of the population.''
 But the 2008 government study on building materials found the opposite -- that three-quarters of what is quarried in the West Bank goes to Israel. The remainder is bought by Palestinians on the open market. If there were a Palestinian state, that might still be the case, but the owners of the quarries would presumably be Palestinian and planning would be done by Palestinians.
 Talk of a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza has dimmed since the Palestinian leadership fractured when Hamas took over Gaza and since the right won in the Israeli elections.
 But Benjamin Netanyahu, who is in the process of forming Israel's next government, has said that he wants to build the Palestinian economy and institutions in the West Bank so as to increase the chances of successful Palestinian self-rule. Asked about the quarries, a close aide to Mr. Netanyahu said change might be warranted.
 ''The new government is going to take a very pragmatic approach to these issues to figure out what will advance the Palestinian economy,'' said the aide, Ron Dermer.
 Even the Israeli military suggested that the system might need to be rethought. While defending its willingness to license quarrying, both in response to questions from Yesh Din and to a query for this article, it said the policy was now under thorough review.
 One concern caused by the quarries is their environmental impact. Itamar Ben David, chief environmental planner for the Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel, served on the board that produced the study about building materials last year.
 ''I was surprised by how big a portion is supplied to Israel by the West Bank,'' he said. ''One reason is clearly that planning regulations and environmental assessment are less strong in the West Bank than in Israel. In Israel, nobody wants a quarry near his residential property.''
 Palestinian officials say they are troubled by the quarries for the same reasons that Israelis do not like to have them nearby.
 ''This industry is polluting Palestinian lands and populations,'' said Hassan Abu-Libdeh, a special adviser to the Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad. ''And it is competing with our own industry. So we view it as an aggression. This is just another example of Israeli businesses thriving at the cost of the Palestinian economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE LAND: Sheep near the edge of a West Bank quarry on Friday. About 10 such quarries account for nearly a quarter of the sand and gravel Israel uses.
THE INDUSTRY
A quarry near Beitar Ilit. A dispute arose over Israeli companies' quarrying in the West Bank and selling rock and sand for building materials.
 THE ECONOMY: Farmland at the foot of a quarry in Beitar Ilit. Palestinians say that if their economy is to thrive, control over their natural resources is essential.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: There is a vast quarry in Beitar Ilit, an Israeli settlement. Map details area of Beitar Ilit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); SAND & GRAVEL MINING (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); DESERTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



268 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: JOB LOSSES HINT AT VAST REMAKING OF U.S. ECONOMY

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN and JACK HEALY; David Stout contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As government data revealed that 651,000 more jobs disappeared in February, a sense took hold that growing joblessness may reflect a wrenching restructuring of the American economy. 
 The unemployment rate surged to 8.1 percent, from 7.6 percent in January, its highest level in a quarter-century. In key industries -- manufacturing, financial services and retail -- layoffs have accelerated so quickly in recent months as to suggest that many companies are abandoning whole areas of business.
 ''These jobs aren't coming back,'' said John E. Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia in Charlotte, N.C. ''A lot of production either isn't going to happen at all, or it's going to happen somewhere other than the United States. There are going to be fewer stores, fewer factories, fewer financial services operations. Firms are making strategic decisions that they don't want to be in their businesses.''
 This dynamic has proved true in past recessions as well, with fading industries pushed to the brink during downturns before others emerged to create jobs when economic growth inevitably resumed. But with job losses so enormous over such a short period of time, some economists argue that the latest crisis challenges the traditional American response to hard times. 
 For decades, the government has reacted to downturns by handing out temporary unemployment insurance checks, relying upon the resumption of economic growth to restore the jobs lost. This time, the government needs to place a greater emphasis on retraining workers for other careers, these economists say.
 The grim scorecard of contraction in the American workplace released by the Labor Department on Friday largely destroyed what hopes remained for an economic recovery in the first half of this year, and it added to a growing sense that 2009 is probably a lost cause. 
 Most economists now assume American fortunes cannot improve before the last months of the year, as the Obama administration's $787 billion emergency spending program begins to wash through the economy.
 ''The current pace of decline is breathtaking,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG. ''We are now falling at a near record rate in the postwar period and there's been no change in the violent downward trajectory.''
 The monthly snapshot of the national employment picture revealed an even bleaker picture as the government revised upward the job losses in December and January. The economy has shed at least 650,000 jobs for three straight months, the worst decline in percentage terms over that length of time since 1975.
 Since the recession began, the economy has eliminated a net total of roughly 4.4 million jobs, with more than half of those positions -- some 2.6 million -- disappearing in the last four months alone. This rapid deterioration has prompted talk that some industries are being partly dismantled. Layoffs are multiplying because of dysfunction in the financial system, which is prompting even healthy companies to shed workers and shut down operations out of concern they may soon lose access to credit.
 ''Everybody is so fearful that companies are thinking, 'What can we hang on to and what should we liquidate?' '' said Martin N. Baily, a chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Clinton and now a fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''A lot of the reduction in employment is businesses deciding to close down operations or get out of a line of certain activity.''
 American car sales have dropped to an annual pace of nine million, from some 17 million in 2007. Even if sales increase considerably, that is likely to leave a lot of unneeded auto factories.
 ''The decimation of employment in legacy American brands such as General Motors is a trend that's likely to continue,'' said Robert E. Hall, an economist at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. ''We have to stimulate the economy to create jobs in other areas.''
 In February, 168,000 more manufacturing jobs were eliminated, bringing losses over the last year to 1.2 million. In Michigan, where the troubles of the auto industry have been particularly traumatic, the unemployment rate sits at 10.6 percent, the highest of any state in the nation.
 ''The people who do what I do in the Detroit area are a dime a dozen,'' said Kim Allgeyer, 46, a machine toolmaker in Westland, Mich., who was laid off in January from a company that makes assembly lines for the automakers. Unable to find another full-time job, he is subsisting on day labor and one-week stints for contractors. ''Who's going to put me to work?'' he asked. ''Where's the work at? It's just a great big black hole.''
 Much the same can be said for financial services, which gave up 44,000 jobs in February. During the housing boom, banks hired tens of thousands of well-compensated traders, analysts and marketers to sell mortgage-backed securities and other investments. That industry is unlikely to return to its former shape.
 Retailers are shuttering stores as the era of easy money fueled by rising house prices and abundant credit gives way to a period in which millions of households are forced to confine their spending to their paychecks. The economy lost 39,500 retail jobs in February, and has eliminated more than 500,000 in the last year. 
 President Obama pointed to the latest evidence of distress as justification for a muscular, government-led effort to generate jobs quickly. 
 ''This country has never responded to a crisis by sitting on the sidelines and hoping for the best,'' the president said in an appearance in Columbus, Ohio. ''Throughout our history we have met every great challenge with bold action and big ideas.''
 The stimulus spending bill signed last month includes $4.5 billion for job training. That only begins to address an area long neglected, said Andrew Stettner, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project in New York. In current dollars, the nation devoted the equivalent of $20 billion a year to job training in 1979, compared with only $6 billion last year, Mr. Stettner said.
 ''We have to seriously look at fundamentally rebuilding the economy,'' he said. ''You've got to use this moment to retrain for jobs.''
 Friday's report reinforced how much the economy is being assailed at once by falling household spending power and the financial crisis, with companies resorting to wholesale layoffs after months of merely declining to hire.
 Transportation and warehousing lost 49,000 jobs in February. Employment services shrank by 88,000 jobs. Hotels and restaurants lost 32,000 jobs. Health care remained a rare bright spot, adding 30,000 jobs.
 Some suggested the job cuts reflected the anxiety that gripped the financial system after Lehman Brothers failed. Borrowing costs have spiked for American companies, making businesses reluctant to expand and hire. And many companies remain spooked by the Wall Street collapse.
 ''There was a huge increase in uncertainty and a huge hit to confidence which caused a large rethinking among businesses,'' said Ethan Harris, co-head of United States economics research at Barclays Capital. 
 In similar crises, like the stock market crash of 1987 and the near collapse of the enormous hedge fund Long Term Capital Management in 1998, dysfunction continued for about six months, Mr. Harris said. But history also shows that when fear lifts, the economy returns to wherever it was when the crisis began, he said, suggesting the recession is likely to continue for many more months.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: JOB GAINS AND LOSSES
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
JOB LOSSES IN RECENT DOWNTURNS(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(A1)
The Labor Picture in February: UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
EMPLOYMENT
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



269 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Toplessness and Taxidermy in a Bottoming Market

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
As a newly sobered art world sizes up this weekend's Armory Show, many are wondering about the fates of smaller fairs with catchier names. What prospects do they have in a crippled economy? A winnowing has already occurred: at least three of last year's Armory-week fairs have opted out of the festivities.
 Those that remain are trying out some new strategies. Volta, which shares a parent company with the Armory, strives to be seen as its younger, hipper sibling (something like the Art Statements section of solo-artist booths at Art Basel and Art Basel Miami Beach). Pulse, in its most diverse incarnation yet, is banking on globalization. And Scope supplements its accessible, pop-kitschy wares with a packed special-events calendar of music, screenings and parties. 
 Everywhere artists were mindful of recession economics. At Volta, Alejandro Diaz's black-marker epigrams on cardboard could be had for $99.99. At Scope, artists hawked T-shirts and other multiples priced from $5 to $250 in a separate pavilion marked ''Cheap, Fast and Out of Control.''
 In previous seasons wry deconstructions of the fair environment, taking a buzz saw to the walls of the booth, for example, or leaving it mostly empty, were common sights. This time dealers showed tidy installations of paintings and photographs, mostly of modest proportions. ''Small is the new big,'' a wall text at Scope proclaimed.
 The solo projects at Volta, in particular, exhibited a slightly queasy self-consciousness of art as a commodity. ''Age of Anxiety'' is the pre-emptively clever theme of this year's fair, which was organized by the returning team of Amanda Coulson and Christian Viveros-Faune.
 One piece raising eyebrows was a sculpture by Fernando Mastrangelo, at the booth of the Los Angeles gallery Rhys Mendes. A white figure of a Colombian coca farmer resting on a mirror-tiled floor in an all-black setting, it was said to be made of cocaine.
 At the Belgian gallery Hoet Bekaert, a topless woman enticed browsers to dig for buried treasure -- hidden necklaces -- in an installation of brightly colored thread clusters by the Thai artist Surasi Kusolwong. Nearby at Haas & Fischer, Joshua Callaghan's Model-T Ford, wrought from brass lamps and bedposts, competed for attention.
 Some booths didn't need a gimmick to stand out. In this category were paintings of women with nimbuses of dark hair and the stylized features of figures in Persian miniature painting, by the Iranian artist Hayv Kahraman, at Thierry Goldberg.
 Celebrities were another marketing ploy. Galerie Brigitte Schenk showed watercolors of creepy figures with gas masks and guns capably painted by the musician Marilyn Manson. At Scope a painting signed Yu Ling, at Eli Klein Fine Art, was revealed to be the work of the actress Lucy Liu. Intentionally or not, Ms Liu's prank mocked the demand, in recent seasons, for undiscovered Chinese contemporary artists.
 (Fledgling fairs dot the perimeter: Bridge, in the Tunnel nightclub space on 27th Street; Pool, in the Wyndham Hotel on 24th Street; and Fountain, on a boat docked at Pier 66. Although the art is strictly entry level, these fairs have the benefit of proximity to Chelsea galleries.)
 Scattered throughout Pulse are galleries from Beijing and Shanghai, but other urban centers also vie for attention: Moscow, Manila, Montreal. Most are fluent in the language of international contemporary art: blurry Photo Realist painting, staged and digitally enhanced photography, crafty crocheted sculptures festooned with sequins and bric-a-brac.
 There are also special Pulse-commissioned projects like the Miami artist Clifton Childree's ''Miamuh Swamp Adventure,'' a rickety installation resembling a rotting silent-movie theater. Inside is a film about Miami real estate scams at the end of the 19th century.
 Solo-artist booths, a trend that clearly extended beyond Volta, stood out at both Pulse and Scope. At Pulse, Mark Moore of Santa Monica, Calif., devoted a large booth to Alison Schulnik's heavily impastoed paintings of hobos and clowns. At Scope, the Brooklyn gallery Jonathan LeVine had a winning installation by Camille Rose Garcia: wallpaper, paintings and pillows all adorned with a street-art version of the Disney character Cruella de Vil.
 Scope seemed to be in the grip of the dubious urban-frontier trend in decor. Specially commissioned installations at the entrances to both tents, by Maya Hayuk and Kristin Schiele, evoked cabins and shanties. Inside the main tent two pieces of taxidermy art were prominent: Marc Seguin's bald eagle and a deer head with exaggerated, resin-sculpted antlers by Carolyn Salas and Adam Parker Smith.
 In the design world this stuff is old news -- but in the art world, it's evidence of a new survivalism.
 Continuing through Sunday are the Pulse Art Fair New York, Pier 40, 353 West Street, at West Houston Street, West Village, pulse-art.com; Scope New York, Damrosch Park, Lincoln Center, scope-art.com; and Volta NY, 7 West 34th Street, Manhattan, voltashow.com; and the Armory Show itself, at Piers 92 and 94, 12th Avenue at 55th Street, Clinton; thearmoryshow.com. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An art review on Saturday about art fairs held in conjunction with the Armory Show misidentified the nationality of the artist Hayv Kahraman, whose paintings were on display at the Thierry Goldberg booth at the Volta fair. She is Iraqi, not Iranian. The review also misidentified the site of the Jonathan LeVine Gallery, whose booth, at the Scope fair, had an installation by Camille Rose Garcia. The gallery is in Chelsea, not Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clifton Childree's installation ''Miamuh Swamp Adventure,'' a rickety installation resembling a rotting silent-movie theater, at Pulse on Pier 40.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''Trophy,'' an installation by Carolyn Salas and Adam Parker Smith at Scope in Damrosch Park.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); CALENDARS (71%); COCAINE (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); MUSIC (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (57%) FLORIDA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



270 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Nets Offer Payment Plan for Season Tickets

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
With the recession deepening, the Nets said Friday that next year's season-ticket holders would be able to pay for their tickets in 10 monthly installments, with the Nets picking up the last payment. Season-ticket holders who lose their jobs will have their money refunded, the team said. 
 ''At the end of the day, we know we're a want, not a need,'' said Fred Mangione, the Nets' senior vice president for ticket sales and marketing. He said ticket prices would either stay the same or be cut by as much as 10 percent. 
 The Nets' ticket policy is similar to the one announced by the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday.
 The Nets also said that season-ticket holders would not be obligated to buy tickets to three home preseason games, which will be held at Prudential Center in Newark and Carnesecca Arena at St. John's. KEN BELSON 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%) NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



271 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 40 words

HEADLINE: CORRECTIONS

 BODY:
An article on Wednesday about potential threats to the banking industry in Switzerland misstated, in some editions, the size of commercial bank assets in the United States relative to gross domestic product. It is 70 percent, not 0.7 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (71%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



272 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Doctoral Candidates Anticipate Hard Times

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Chris Pieper began looking for an academic job in sociology about six months ago, sending off about two dozen application packets. The results so far? Two telephone interviews, and no employment offers.
 ''About half of all the rejection letters I've received mentioned the poor economy as contributing to their decision,'' said Mr. Pieper, 34, who is getting his doctorate from the University of Texas, Austin. ''Some simply canceled the search because they found the funding for the position didn't come through. Others changed their tenure-track jobs to adjunct or instructor positions.''
 ''Many of the universities I applied to received more than 300 applications,'' he added.
 Mr. Pieper is not alone. Fulltime faculty jobs have not been easy to come by in recent decades, but this year the new crop of Ph.D. candidates is finding the prospects worse than ever. Public universities are bracing for severe cuts as state legislatures grapple with yawning deficits. At the same time, even the wealthiest private colleges have seen their endowments sink and donations slacken since the financial crisis. So a chill has set in at many higher education institutions, where partial or full-fledge hiring freezes have been imposed. 
 A survey by the American Historical Association, for example, found that the number of history departments recruiting new professors this year is down 15 percent, while the American Mathematical Association's largest list of job postings has dropped more than 25 percent from last year.
 ''This is a year of no jobs,'' said Catherine Stimpson, the dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at New York University. Ph.D.s are stacked up, she said, ''like planes hovering over La Guardia.''
 The anticipated wave of retirements by faculty members who are 60-something is likely to slow as retirement savings accounts and pensions wither, administrators and professors say. That means that some students who have finished postdoctoral fellowships and who expected to leave for faculty positions are staying put for another year, which in turn closes off an option for other graduate students coming up the ladder.
 ''I was encouraged to aim very high initially, but as I have watched more and more jobs pulled, I am worried about whether I can even get a postdoc,'' said Vanessa Svihla, 33, a graduate student in science education at the University of Texas, Austin. She is defending her dissertation next month. ''Amidst all the normal stress of finishing a dissertation and trying to get publications out, hiring freezes are a bit overwhelming,'' she said.
 Although some people think that graduate school is a good place to wait out a crash, some undergraduates said they had either canceled or postponed plans to enter graduate school this fall because of the bad economy or their inability to get student loans.
 Aisha Hadlock, 21, a senior at Oberlin College who majored in Islamic studies, decided to delay graduate school for at least a year. ''I don't have the financial means to support myself through grad school in this economy, and grants and loans are so hard to get right now,'' Ms. Hadlock said. The types of programs that offer generous financial aid ''will be overrun with applicants,'' she added.
 Andrew Delbanco, the chairman of the American studies program at Columbia University, said that the system producing graduate students was increasingly out of sync with the system hiring them.
 ''It's been obvious for some time -- witness the unionization movement -- that graduate students are caught between the old model of apprentice scholars and the new reality of insecure laborers with uncertain employment prospects,'' Mr. Delbanco said. ''Among the effects of the financial crisis will clearly be shrinkage both in graduate fellowships and in entry-level academic positions, so the prospects for aspiring Ph.D.'s are getting even bleaker.''
 Many in the humanities fear that their fields are going to suffer most. Humanities professors are already among the lowest-paid faculty members, according to the Humanities Indicators Prototype, a new, decade-long effort to establish a database of information led by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
 What's more, nearly half of all the positions are part time -- with no job security and no benefits -- a situation that many educators expect to worsen. 
 Many students now finishing their doctorates began working on them when the economy was in much better shape. It often takes about nine years to complete a dissertation in English, said Louis Menand, an English professor at Harvard, explaining that students have to devote so many hours to teaching and making money that they don't have time left over to write.
 William Pannapacker, an associate professor of English at Hope College in Holland, Mich., who writes a column for The Chronicle of Higher Education under the name Thomas Benton, has frequently tried to dissuade undergraduates from pursuing a graduate degree in the humanities. He is convinced that the recession will push universities to trim the number of tenure-track jobs further.
 ''It's hard to tell young people that universities recognize that their idealism and energy -- and lack of information -- are an exploitable resource,'' he wrote in a recent column. ''If you cannot find a tenure-track position, your university will no longer court you; it will pretend you do not exist and will act as if your unemployability is entirely your fault.''
 Unless you are independently wealthy or really well connected, don't apply, he advised.
 Margaret Peacock, 35, who spent eight years on her dissertation in Soviet history at the University of Texas, is one of the lucky ones. A winner of a federal Fulbright-Hays scholarship and the mother of three children, Ms. Peacock just accepted a tenure-track job at the University of Alabama. At the historian association's convention in January, she said that a number of people who sat on hiring committees told her that they were pressing to complete faculty searches this year partly because ''they are worried that there will be no budget for new hires'' in the future.
 ''I also know that many of the offers being made by departments to their chosen candidates are not as generous as they have been in past years, with higher teaching loads and less room to negotiate salary,'' Ms. Peacock added. Americanists seem to be having a much tougher time now than those specializing in other historical areas, she said. ''I am becoming increasingly convinced that I got in under the wire.''
 In the past 30 years, public and private money dedicated to the humanities has also significantly declined. The budget for the National Endowment for the Humanities is roughly a third of what it was at the high point of 1979, after adjusting for inflation, according to the Humanities Indicators data, though stimulus money may raise that figure. 
 Only 13 percent, or about $16 million, makes its way into scholarly projects. And unlike the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes for Health, the humanities endowment does not give awards to postdoctoral students.
 Of course the humanities don't require labs and expensive equipment, but as Leslie Berlowitz, the chief executive of the arts and sciences academy, notes, the humanities suffer more from across-the-board cuts because those professors are much less able to generate financing outside of the university, unlike the hard and social sciences. Such scholars also find fewer job opportunities outside of academia.
 Mr. Pieper is still looking but he is discouraged. ''The timing of this downturn was exactly wrong for my entering the academic market, and there's no guarantee it will be better next year,'' he said. ''It takes a long time for these situations to right themselves.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the impact of the economic crisis on new Ph.D. candidates who are seeking jobs misstated part of the name of an organization of mathematicians whose largest list of job postings has shrunk more than 25 percent from last year. It is the American Mathematical Society (not Association).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After two dozen applications, Chris Pieper, a sociology graduate student at the University of Texas, Austin, still has no job offer.
 Margaret Peacock, shown with her daughters, said, ''I got in under the wire,'' after securing a tenure-track post in Alabama.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); HISTORY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); MATHEMATICS (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (62%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (83%); AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



273 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Eric Timaeus has dominated the Sweetwater Jaycees Rattlesnake Round-Up, a competition held each March in West Texas.
 nytimes.com/sports
 Opinion
 MEASURE FOR MEASURE What's a Melody For? 
 Suzanne Vega writes that depending on what a songwriter is after, a song can benefit from a gorgeous melody or from the distinct absence of one.
 nytimes.com/measureformeasure
 SLIDESHOW: TASTE OF THE REAL INDIA
 Samthar, in West Bengal, above, is one of a growing number of Indian villages that are offering home stays to tourists looking to join the humdrum rhythms of everyday life.
 nytimes.com/travel
 VIDEO: SEARCHING FOR WORK AND NOT GIVING UP
 Three unemployed New Yorkers look for work. More than 4.4 million Americans have lost their jobs since the recession started in December 2007.
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: 'YOUR MONEY' PODCAST
 John Leland of The Times joins the Your Money columnist Ron Lieber and the personal finance reporter Tara Siegel Bernard to discuss the details of the Obama administration's housing plan.
 nytimes.com/yourmoney
 SLIDESHOW: FADING SYMBOLS OF RURAL LIFE
 Barns, once a basic part of Connecticut's country landscape, are fast disappearing despite the outcry of preservationists. 
 nytimes.com/connecticut
 Bits On the Web, No One Can Hear You Scream
 There is something particularly exasperating about customer service at Internet companies. Are there Web sites you've found that provide responsive customer service?
 nytimes.com/bits
 SLIDESHOW: FRAUGHT DRAMAS
 Images from television series that have paired attractive opposites in an effort to enliven the characters and mine drama from their unresolved sexual tension. ''Castle,'' the latest show to follow this formula, has its premiere on ABC on Monday.
 nytimes.com/television
 Room for Debate The Lure of Rocks From Outer Space
 An asteroid's ''near miss'' as it passed by Earth this week reminds us how fascinated we are by these flying objects. What is it about them that captures our attention?
 nytimes.com/roomfordebate
 SLIDESHOW: LIVING IN ART
 Karen Santry, white-haired, Keane-eyed and bubbling with energy, rarely does anything halfway, and that includes feathering her nest, a 500-square-foot studio at Westbeth.
 nytimes.com/realestate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); SONG WRITING (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); WRITERS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (73%); LAYOFFS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); PODCASTING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



274 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: The Economy: It's on Everyone's Mind

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Matters of Principal'' (Op-Ed, March 5):
 John D. Geanakoplos and Susan P. Koniak are right to worry about the fate of borrowers whose mortgage loan principals exceed the market value of their homes. But the article's argument for getting government (and community banks) involved in writing down these principals, although important, seems incomplete. 
 If, as claimed, such write-downs are truly ''win-win'' moves -- allowing borrowers to keep their homes and giving mortgage holders a higher return than foreclosure -- they may not need the government's assistance. 
 Mr. Geanakoplos and Ms. Koniak contend that servicers, the agents who manage the loans for mortgage holders, currently have contracts giving them the incentive to foreclose rather than rewrite loans. But if so, then mortgage holders themselves have strong motivation to renegotiate those contracts, so that the servicers' incentives are corrected. 
 That would be a win-win-win move (for mortgage holders, servicers and borrowers), and to complete their argument, the writers must show why it won't happen.
 Eric Maskin Princeton, N.J., March 6, 2009
 The writer, a professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study, is a 2007 Nobel laureate in economics.
 To the Editor:
 John D. Geanakoplos and Susan P. Koniak present a compelling case for their plan to reverse the tide of foreclosures. The trouble is, nearly every recommendation I've read makes a compelling case -- and they never seem to agree. 
 The fact is, nobody really understands the financial system we've built, and thus nobody really understands how to fix it. What is completely lacking is a deep and robust professional, institutionalized knowledge of how this creaky machine we've built operates.
 We need a cadre of professional regulators. People who train in the profession of understanding, overseeing and regulating our financial system. And for that, we need to develop a new field of study, new training programs, new professional bodies akin to those that underpin the legal, medical and engineering professions. 
 Developing this new profession won't solve the immediate crisis, but it will help avoid the next one.
 Wayne Buck Hamden, Conn., March 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I am one of the responsible people who would be enraged to see my irresponsible neighbors get a break on their mortgages. Nonetheless, I could sign on to the Geanakoplos-Koniak plan if one element were added: a Congressional and presidential guarantee that an ironclad regulatory system will be crafted so that these abuses can never happen again. 
 Sadly, the coddling of those who got us into this mess strongly suggests that neither branch has the desire or the will to do so.
 James Fleming Potomac, Md., March 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''U.S. Sets Big Incentives to Head Off Foreclosures'' (front page, March 5):
 My wife and I both work in Manhattan and have been married for 10 years. We have two extraordinary children and rent in Queens. We first worked our way out of student loan debt, then credit card debt, and now pay all bills on time, while saving a little each month for retirement and college. 
 We live on the budget we have. We could never save enough to make a down payment on a house, so we never considered taking out a mortgage even during the ''no money down'' times because those came with future adjustable interest rates and it seemed foolish to make decisions based on imagined earnings. 
 Do we want to own a house? Yes. Do we expect help from the government? No. Clearly we are not part of the ''new'' America.
 Michael Royce Forest Hills, Queens, March 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Financial arrangements so incomprehensible that government regulators could not understand them, much less oversee them, contributed significantly to the current economic crisis. Treasury officials should try to explain to the average homeowner the new complex, possibly inequitable rules intended to stave off foreclosures. 
 Transparency still hasn't taken hold in Washington.
 Joel Mandelbaum New York, March 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 We are all facing difficult times with our home values and retirement plans cut in half, and for those lucky enough to still have a job, the specter of unemployment looming. I'm having a hard time feeling sorry for people who refinanced their homes twice when everything seemed to be rocketing up in value, only to have the bottom fall out now.
 It's difficult to imagine what critical, life-sustaining unmet needs prompted such financially risky behavior. Now the bill is due, and these same people are complaining about a bad post-party headache.
 Tom Short San Rafael, Calif., March 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 An idea for people who find themselves in a home with a mortgage that's more than the home is worth: Rent part of the home to others who may have lost their home, or need a place for one reason or another. (In these times, there are lots of reasons.) 
 Many couples, and some singles, are rattling around in a home with bathrooms to spare. Rent a few rooms to a family that needs a place to live. All would benefit. Tough times take tough measures.
 Jeannette Marx Towson, Md., March 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''When Will the Recession Be Over?'' (Op-Ed, March 1):
 Thank you for the wonderful collection of views on the timing of the recovery. While views differ on the timing of the recovery, no one questioned that a recovery is possible. This is largely because the current crisis is based on financial problems, the most superficial aspect of the economy. 
 How different it might be or will be (depending on what we do now) when we have a crisis based on the most foundational aspect of the economy, the ecosystem. When productivity falls not because of lack of credit or consumer confidence but because of reaching the earth limits of natural resources and ecosystem services, including climate stability, the question will not be when will the economy recover. We will be adjusting to a new reality. 
 We are wise to direct our resources to get out of the current crisis to prevent the next crisis, which could be more profound and far longer, if not eternal. 
 Maggie Winslow El Cerrito, Calif., March 2, 2009
 The writer is a professor of economics at the Presidio School of Management.
 To the Editor:
 Now that you've asked 11 economists to answer the question ''When Will the Recession Be Over?'' (Op-Ed, March 1), and now that I've read their answers, only one thing is clear. In 11 different ways, they don't know. So, that's how exact the so-called science of economics is. 
 In any case, why would they know the answer when (maybe) only one of them even had the wherewithal to see the meltdown coming? Really, it's akin to asking astrologers to predict the future.
 Christopher Cook Prague, March 1, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); COMMUNITY BANKS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



275 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Officer Leads Old Corps In New Role In Pakistan

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: PESHAWAR, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Maj. Gen. Tariq Khan, commander of Pakistan's Frontier Corps paramilitary force, got some bad news the other day: The Pakistani Army needed its two helicopters back for a more urgent mission. 
 Trouble was, they were the only two helicopters General Khan had that day -- or any other day -- to combat Al Qaeda and the Taliban in the country's lawless tribal areas. ''If the army needs their assets, we don't get priority,'' General Khan said of the transport and attack aircraft that the army lends him because his forces have none of their own. 
 So it goes for the Frontier Corps, a stepchild of the army that has to borrow most of its heavy weaponry, even as it increasingly finds itself on the front lines fighting Qaeda and Taliban operations that threaten American troops in Afghanistan and are increasingly destabilizing Pakistan. 
 Still, with the 500,000-member Pakistani Army focused on its archenemy, India, and reluctant to embrace serious counterinsurgency training, the Frontier Corps, long maligned as poorly trained, ill equipped and at times in league with the insurgents, may yet be the country's best immediate hope for countering a fast-spreading militancy. 
 Unlike the Punjabi-dominated army, the 60,000 troops in the Frontier Corps are largely drawn from Pashtun tribesmen who know the language and culture of the tribal areas, making it the most suitable force to combat an insurgency there, Pakistani and American military officials say. 
 Enter General Khan, a portly, 52-year-old tank commander who made his name last year battling the Pakistani Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud in South Waziristan. He took command of the corps seven months ago and has sought to drag it from its 19th-century border-patrol past into the 21st-century world of counterinsurgency. 
 The general, who once was Pakistan's military representative at the United States Central Command headquarters in Tampa, Fla., has already improved morale by raising salaries and expanding medical care to dependents. He has drafted a detailed plan to overhaul the corps, aiming to transform it into a more agile lightly armed force while also swelling its ranks by more than 10,000 to allow home leaves. 
 He is an unusually progressive officer, a trait that has ruffled some feathers among his army brethren. In this conservative society, General Khan plans to offer women jobs as medics in rear-area field hospitals, freeing up male orderlies to fight. 
 Pakistani and American officials say the Frontier Corps is already more effective now. The corps's forces, fighting alongside regular army soldiers, have largely wrapped up operations against the Taliban in the Bajaur, Mohmand and Khyber areas of the tribal belt, the general said. 
 A new commando unit within the Frontier Corps has used information from the Central Intelligence Agency and other sources to kill or capture as many as 60 militants in the past seven months, a senior Pakistani military official said. ''The results speak for themselves,'' Owais Ahmed Ghani, the governor of the North-West Frontier Province, which includes the tribal areas, said in an interview. 
 General Khan has strong support from the army chief of staff, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. But many military analysts question whether General Khan will get the resources and backing to continue carrying out his changes. Moreover, some critics say, the recent Frontier Corps operations have not eliminated the Taliban threat, but just shunted it to neighboring areas. 
 ''The Frontier Corps has shown improvement, but there's still a long way to go,'' said Hasan Askari Rizvi, a military analyst in Lahore. ''The Taliban are entrenched and move quickly from one area to another.'' 
 The United States has thrown its support behind the corps. The Pentagon has spent more than $40 million to equip it with new body armor, vehicles, radios and surveillance equipment, with more in the pipeline. Over all, American officials have said that the United States could spend more than $400 million in the next several years to enhance the corps, including building a training base near Peshawar.
 A United States Army Special Forces officer is assigned to the corps's headquarters here to help share intelligence and coordinate operations with American forces across the border in Afghanistan. 
 Last fall, about 30 American and British military instructors spent three months training some 120 senior enlisted corps troops in new weapons, combat tactics, communications and other technical skills. Those Pakistani troops will in turn train additional corps forces. 
 But a review of policy on Afghanistan and Pakistan by the National Security Council this year, under former President George W. Bush, concluded that the ''train-the-trainer'' approach was so indirect that it would take about 12 years to field an effective counterinsurgency force. ''They've got a long way to go before you can rely on them,'' Representative John F. Tierney, a Massachusetts Democrat, said of the corps. Mr. Tierney's oversight subcommittee has conducted several hearings on Pakistan. 
 In an interview here at his headquarters, a massive 19th-century brick fortress built by the British, General Khan said that a relatively modest investment -- say, $300 million -- in sensors, night-fighting equipment, sniper rifles and helicopters would enable the corps to respond to specific threats within 90 minutes and ''to go independently anywhere it wanted to go.'' 
 ''It would change the dimension of the combat capacity of the Frontier Corps,'' he said. ''In the long run, it would reduce expenditures because you wouldn't need so many troops.'' 
 In the end, General Khan said the only long-term solution was to rebuild the tribal leadership structure that has been decimated by Taliban attacks, and then provide local tribal communities economic assistance and job training. ''I consider the front-line force against the militants to be the tribes themselves,'' General Khan said. ''By bringing back tribal leadership, we'd be able to control this. But we have to have the wherewithal to protect those tribes.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of Pakistan's Frontier Corps recently guarded the border of the North-West Frontier Province against Taliban fighters from tribal regions.
 A member of the corps taking a break. The corps is led by a general who is trying to modernize it and improve morale.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); HELICOPTERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); TERRORISM (78%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HOSPITALS (66%); CONSERVATISM (65%); BORDER CONTROL (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BAITULLAH MEHSUD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



276 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths KEENAN, TERRANCE

 BODY:
KEENAN--Terrance. The Board, staff, grantees and friends of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation mourn the passing and celebrate the life of legendary grantmaker and our revered colleague, Terrance Keenan. For 50 years, first with the Ford Foundation, the Commonwealth Fund and then with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, where in 1972 he was in the vanguard of a new venture and a new staff, Terry set the standard for creativity, caring and vision in philanthropy. What made Terry so special is that he never lost sight of the people we are trying to help. 
His modus operandi was to always remember that the Foundation represents a public trust; to recognize the primacy of new ideas and innovation; and to demand of himself and others the highest standards of ethics and excellence. Born in Philadelphia in 1923 to Peter and Marie Keenan, Terry Keenan was raised in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. He graduated from New Hope Solebury High School and summa cum laude from Yale University, where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, after service in the Pacific as a Navy flight navigator during World War II. Upon graduating from Yale, the brilliantly eclectic Terry taught English, Spanish, French, history and art appreciation at Jefferson prep school in St. Louis, Missouri. In 1955, he moved to New York City to work at Merrill Lynch on a biography of the firm's founder, Charles Merrill. His long and distinguished career in philanthropy began the next year, when he joined the Ford Foundation to direct its Office of Reports. In 1965, he became board secretary for the Commonwealth Fund in New York, where he served as the right hand man to Fund president Quigg Newton. In 1972, Terry became Vice-President of the newly established Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF), then the second largest philanthropy in the U.S. and the largest focusing on health issues. Terry Keenan created many of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's most enduring and exemplary programs during his 30-year career with us. Considered the Indiana Jones of health philanthropy, Terry ventured to remote rural outposts and blighted urban neighborhoods to bring health care to communities deeply in need. In his first portfolio of what eventually became 940-plus grants at RWJF was a program to train rural nurse practitioners, a network of rural clinics, and a summer study program to prepare minority students to enter the health professions. He always had an endless string of inventive ideas that he effectively championed and led by marvelous, inspiring exampleHis idea to develop a network of foundations to share information and build connections among health philanthropies became Grantmakers in Health, which now brings together more than 300 foundations focused on health. A Keenan-inspired program to improve health care in small communities became, in 1987, the Local Initiatives Funding Partners program to encourage local foundations to support health philanthropy in their communities. One of the U.S.' greatest champions of nursing and nurses, Terry initiated programs to create specialized clinical training for nurses; to restructure hospital-based nursing care; to create clinics led by nurse practitioners; to expand the role of nurses in emergency care in rural areas; to promote the use of school-based clinics, led by nurses, to improve care for students and their families; and to train and promote nurses for executive-level leadership roles in health organizations. A small project in Elmira, New York to see if nurse home visits to economically disadvantaged mothers of newborns could help improve the life outcomes of both children and mothers became the national, thriving Nurse-Family Partnership. A man of great but quiet faith, Terry Keenan pioneered the creation of partnerships between local health and faith-based organizations to improve and expand volunteer care-giving for chronically ill patients, an idea that became the Faith in Action program. Terry's philosophy of what makes a great philanthropy is found in his 1992 monograph, The Promise at Hand: "A great foundation" he wrote, "is informed and animated by moral purpose," "walks humbly," "is deliberate," "accountable," and "self-renewing." Such attributes aptly describe Terry Keenan, a great and humble man, as well. Terry is survived by his loving wife of 30 years, Joette Lehan Keenan, by his sister, Sheila Keeler and her husband, Philip, by his sister-in-law Barbara Rogers, and many nieces and nephews. Relatives and friends are invited to Terry's graveside service on Saturday, March 7, at 2pm at St. Martin of Tours Cemetery, New Hope, PA. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions in Terrance Keenan's name may be made to the Make-A-Wish Foundation, One Valley Square, 512 Township Line Rd., Suite 133, Blue Bell, PA 19422. www.Lifecelebration.com, 1-800-GIVNISH. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (92%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); ETHICS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (67%); WORLD WAR II (67%); RURAL HEALTH (67%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



277 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: It's Beauty's Illusions They Recall

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

DATELINE: Paris 

 BODY:
Paging the Amazing Kreskin: Fashion needs you.
You remember Kreskin, of course, the storied cheese-ball mentalist from Montclair, N.J., whose unusual abilities made him a staple punch line on sitcoms and a regular reference in comedy club skits and nightclub routines. 
 One of Kreskin's gimmicks was to ask a stranger at a club where he was performing to hide his paycheck for the gig. If his Third Eye failed to lead him to it, he forfeited the fee. No doubt to the dismay of nightclub owners (always happy to withhold payment from talent), Kreskin's uncanny ability to divine the location of money invariably led him to gold. 
 Lately one thinks a lot about Kreskin and his knack for the paranormal. Particularly one thinks about him at fashion shows, where these days people with different but equally specialized gifts focus their deep attention on young women walking around in circles on runways, wondering if there isn't money hidden somewhere in their clothes. 
 These people -- editors, buyers, the news media -- gaze with the same laserlike focus that mentalists like Kreskin brought to bending spoons and levitating pretty blondes. (All right, some of them do doze off.) They wonder if the latest frippery from Balmain or Balenciaga or Bless can somehow lift their business out of the double-digit doldrums, a zone too familiar now to retailers like Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus and Saks. 
 ''Sometimes hard days are creative days,'' Carine Roitfeld, the editor of French Vogue, said at the Balmain show, which was held on a temporary floor placed above the subterranean swimming pool of the Ritz hotel. ''It's a season for wishing. We have to wish.''
 Balmain is designed by Christophe Decarnin, the man widely credited with having led the recent fashion charge back to the 1980s. And his fall 2009 show presented the curious spectacle of people almost old enough to qualify for a half-price fare on the subway (Anna Wintour turns 60 this year) watching people well below the legal drinking age parade around in a type of glitter rags whose hooker glamour may charm the latter but which the former would probably prefer to forget they ever owned. 
 There is a history of fashion shows being held on top of the pool at the Ritz (and another kind of history in the pool itself: Pamela Harriman, the United States Ambassador to France, legendarily died there while doing the backstroke). Gianni Versace often held his couture spectacles at the Ritz pool, and not surprisingly, Versace is a name often referenced when people talk about Decarnin. In design terms, Decarnin may not be in Versace's league, but he understands, as Versace did, that fashion is concerned with more than clothes. 
 ''At times like these, people need fashion, not basics,'' Donatella Versace said over dinner a month ago in Milan. By fashion she was referring to stylish things but also to the attitudes and gestures that go into making one group of people appear to the rest of us as if they possess something magical we would all like to share. 
 She meant pretty much what the 18th-century wit Lady Mary Wortley Montagu was suggesting when she recorded that ''disdainful smiles'' and ''satirical whispers'' never fail to arise in social ''assemblies when anybody appears that is not dressed exactly in fashion.'' 
 It's easy enough to feel morally superior to this tendency. But it does reality no favors to pretend that, when the economy falters, human nature automatically improves. Anyway, it is not just helpless acquisitiveness that drives people to crave the novelty of fashion; it's also a love of beauty and the unreconstructed pleasures of human display. 
 ''John Galliano put it well when he said we are in a credit crisis, not a creative crisis,'' Glenda Bailey, the editor of Harper's Bazaar, said on Friday before the Dior show. In the show, Mr. Galliano skillfully mashed up references to everything from tribal ikat weavings to nomad's hats and Kewpie doll faces and a bobby-pin hairstyle popular in African-American communities. 
 ''The point is, we need fashion to give people the desire to have something they don't have yet,'' Carla Sozzani, the proprietor of the influential Milanese boutique 10 Corso Como, said as she left the Dior show and walked into the Tuileries gardens. 
 ''We are talking about privileged people, of course,'' Ms. Sozzani added, stopping in the bright sun to refine the thought. ''Really, though, everybody needs fashion to provide some stimulation,'' and some escape from the daily dose of gloom. ''We don't need to look at another well-structured coat.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRESTO! IT'S THE '80S: A glittery selection from the Balmain fall 2009 presentation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (77%); RETAILERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



278 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Mother Jones Tests Nonprofit Model in Race to Survive the Recession

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
In its beginning Mother Jones, the leftist magazine founded in 1976 in San Francisco, viewed itself as a defender of independent journalism free from corporate meddling. 
 Today it sees itself as a defender of journalism itself. 
 As such, Mother Jones has become a real-life laboratory for whether nonprofit journalism -- a topic of the moment in mainstream news media circles -- can withstand a deep recession. 
 Mother Jones, named for the early-20th-century radical labor organizer Mary Harris Jones, is a nonprofit bimonthly that has long sponsored investigative journalism in the tradition of Upton Sinclair. It cemented its reputation with a famous piece in 1977 on the Ford Motor Company's indifference toward a fuel tank design flaw; the article has come to be known as the ''exploding Pinto'' story. 
 Back in the fall, when the economic downturn intensified, and the plight of print publications became more dire, Mother Jones suffered, despite its position of not being in it for the money. Advertising plummeted, down 23 percent in 2008, and some of the big donations the magazine depends on didn't come through.
 ''Some big donors pulled back,'' said Clara Jeffery, a co-editor of the magazine, in an interview in her San Francisco office.
 The magazine has not laid off staff -- one reporter left at the end of last year when a grant was not renewed because of the financial crisis -- nor has it reduced its ambitions in a notable way. It has maintained its bureau in Washington, one of its major fund-raising initiatives in the last two years, and recently redesigned its Web site. And it plans a big fund-raising event hosted by Rachel Maddow of MSNBC at the end of March in San Francisco.
 For now, the magazine is trimming around the edges, hoping it doesn't have to make more widespread cuts. Ms. Jeffery and Monika Bauerlein, the other co-editor, took salary cuts, for example.
 ''We're looking at definite belt-tightening,'' said Jay Harris, Mother Jones's publisher. 
 While it is not a new idea, the future possibilities of nonprofit, endowed journalism as a cure for the economic problems facing the print industry have recently engendered a lively debate within journalistic circles, in blogs and in articles in The New Yorker and on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times.
 ''We've been hearing from more and more people, 'How does that work?' '' Ms. Bauerlein said. '' 'What's it like being a nonprofit?' ''
 But as Mother Jones's example shows, nonprofit publications, while they may initially be more durable in a down economy, are far from impervious to market forces. 
 ''The form of ownership does not change the law of economics,'' said Alan D. Mutter, an industry analyst who blogs at Reflections of a Newsosaur (newsosaur.blogspot.com) and teaches at the journalism school at the University of California, Berkeley. ''The problem is we need to find sustainable ways of doing business.'' 
 For other publications, the nonprofit model has shown serious cracks in the midst of recession and the more fundamental changes in the economics of journalism. The Christian Science Monitor, a nonprofit newspaper financed by the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, through contributions and an endowment, said last fall that it would switch to a mostly digital format because of heavy losses.
 Meanwhile, The Congressional Quarterly, a profit-making publication that is a subsidiary of a nonprofit organization, the Poynter Institute, is for sale. The institute is also publisher of The St. Petersburg Times.
 Speaking of Poynter, Mr. Mutter said, ''because of losses at the paper, it has to sell a growing and profitable publication, The Congressional Quarterly.''
 ''They are still in trouble today,'' he continued, ''because they can't make ends meet at the newspaper. These are businesses even if they are nonprofit businesses.''
 Still, with many newspapers and magazines struggling, there is a sense of urgency these days among denizens of the profit-making world who want to learn what it means to be a nonprofit. 
 ''We are clearly out there talking to donors and subscribers about this model, and how it could be a way forward for journalism,'' said Rick Melcher, a former Business Week bureau chief who now runs a consulting business in Chicago and sits on the board of Mother Jones.
 The editors of Mother Jones have always evangelized for the nonprofit model at industry seminars. ''The crisis in journalism right now is primarily a crisis in for-profit journalism, because the sources of that profit have dried up,'' Ms. Bauerlein said.
 Mr. Harris, the magazine's publisher, said the company met its fund-raising targets last year, although before the economic turmoil in the fall the magazine thought it would exceed goals.
 But small-time donations and subscriptions have held steady at Mother Jones, to the surprise of its editors, who figured that the downturn would have taken more of a toll and that the election of Barack Obama would have a negative effect on raising money for liberal causes.
 About half of the magazine's yearly revenue is from major grants and donations. The magazine often seeks donations for specific projects, as it did in recent years to staff its Washington bureau at a time when many news organizations had been scaling back there. The bureau opened in late 2007 with eight people. 
 ''If we were concerned about short-term profitability, we couldn't have done that,'' said Mr. Melcher, the board member.
 He noted that as a business model, nonprofit publications ''still need an earned revenue base.''
 ''You need advertising,'' he added. ''And you need good journalism to draw a fan base.''
 Mr. Melcher said the magazine had been on an upswing in recent years under the two co-editors, Ms. Jeffery and Ms. Bauerlein, who were named to their jobs in 2006, after a period adrift from its roots as a place for deep investigative reporting. 
 Last year the magazine won a National Magazine Award for general excellence, with the judges citing its ''Iraq Handbook for Dummies'' and an in-depth report on the increase in extinct species across the globe.
 Ms. Jeffery cited the now famous quotation from Eric Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, that without high-quality journalism, the Internet would be a ''cesspool.''
 ''Without original reporting,'' she said, ''how much bloviation can we all take?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Top, Kevin Simmons, a board member of Mother Jones, with Clara Jeffery, center, and Monika Bauerlein, the co-editors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LIBERAL MEDIA (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



279 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Home-Grown Power

BYLINE: By IAN BOWLES. 
Ian Bowles is the secretary of energy and environmental affairs for Massachusetts.

DATELINE: Boston 

 BODY:
 PRESIDENT Obama has laid out an ambitious agenda for dealing with our energy needs and climate change: he proposes to double the supply of renewable energy within three years, establish a cap-and-trade program to reduce carbon emissions and use federal stimulus dollars to help homes, businesses and governments use energy more efficiently. This is the right blueprint for increasing the number of green jobs, encouraging economic growth, ensuring that the United States has the energy it needs at reasonable prices, and reducing the risk of global climate change. 
 But as Congress translates this grand plan into legislation, lawmakers should resist calls to add an extensive and costly new transmission system that would carry electricity from remote areas like Texas, the Great Plains and Eastern Canada to places with high energy demands like Boston, Chicago and New York. This idea is being promoted by energy companies and by elected officials who see it as an economic development opportunity for their particular state or region. Long-distance transmission lines are needed, they argue, to ensure that the president's energy goals are met. 
 But there are better -- and cheaper -- ways to get more clean power flowing to the big cities. 
 Renewable energy resources are found all across the country; they don't need to be harnessed from just one place. In the Northwest, the largest amount of green power comes from hydroelectricity. In the Northeast, the best source may be the wind over the ocean, because it blows harder and more consistently there than on land. Offshore wind farms have been proposed for Delaware, Massachusetts, New Jersey and Rhode Island. In the Southwest, solar energy can be tapped on a large scale. And in the Southeast, biomass from forests may one day be a major source of sustainable power. In each area, developing these power sources would be cheaper than piping in clean energy from thousands of miles away. 
 Unlike our federal highway system, which is needed to transport goods across the country, or the ''information superhighway'' of the Internet, which is the fastest way to carry information around the world, long-distance transmission lines have no inherent value. On the contrary, the farther electricity is transported, the more of it is dissipated. ''Line loss,'' as this is called, gobbles up an estimated 2 percent to 3 percent of electricity nationally. 
 And of course, the longer the power line, the more expensive it is to build. In New England, we estimate the cost per mile at $2 million to $10 million. The closer electricity is generated to where it's used, the better.
 Another component of President Obama's clean energy vision is the creation of a smarter power grid. But that has little to do with high capacity transmission lines that carry electricity in bulk over hundreds of miles. Building a ''smart grid'' means upgrading the local grid from a simple delivery system to an information system that can let consumers know the times when power is cheapest, thus enabling them to adjust their use to save money. This flattens out electricity loads and minimizes periods of peak demand. Smart grids will also be able to identify and fix power failures instantly, and someday may even send signals to specific household appliances like thermostats, washing machines and refrigerators to switch them on when demand is low or turn them off during times of peak energy use.
 The cost of building transmission lines to connect new power plants to the grid ought to be covered the way we cover it in the Northeast, by folding it into the price of the power that the lines deliver. That allows the market to help keep prices as low as possible.
 In Massachusetts, we get about 5 percent of our power from hydroelectric plants in Quebec. Our distribution utilities are negotiating to install a second transmission line for Canadian hydropower, which would be paid for through long-term power-purchase contracts approved by the New England states whose residents use that power. Developers of remote wind-power farms in eastern Canada have said they would also like to sell us electricity, but unless the combined cost of the power they could provide and its transmission is competitive with our other renewable energy choices, their projects won't get approved. That's the way it should be.
 For a clean energy future, we need a smart grid and we need more renewable energy. The Obama administration is offering welcome support for both. Beyond that, what we need is a level playing field that enables energy providers to compete fairly with one another. The cost of transmission should be incorporated into the overall cost of bringing clean energy to market. Then let the chips fall -- and wind turbines rise -- where they may. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BIOMASS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); WIND POWER PLANTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); WIND ENERGY (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



280 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Top Democratic Talent Agonizes, Then Goes to Work for Bloomberg

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
They worried what their friends would say. They dialed up former bosses to seek approval. And they debated it with skeptical spouses -- even with fretful parents. 
 Recruited by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's re-election campaign, some of the nation's top Democratic strategists are finding that even in an era of supposedly postpartisan city politics, a decision to cross party lines can be wrenching. 
 When Basil Smikle, once the No. 2 strategist in Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's New York office, signed on to the Bloomberg campaign a few weeks ago, he immediately heard from anguished fellow Democrats.
 ''Is this going to get you into trouble with Hillary?'' his mother asked. 
 ''I said, 'Mom, I will be fine,' '' he recalled.
 Soon after Andrea Batista Schlesinger, head of a public policy group and a lifelong Democrat, was hired by the Bloomberg team, a liberal blogger branded her a sellout and strangers tartly scolded her on Facebook. 
 ''What was unclear to me was exactly what I was selling out,'' said Ms. Batista Schlesinger, who worked on the 2001 mayoral campaign of the former Bronx borough president Fernando Ferrer. ''My career is about moving ideas.'' 
 The hiring binge -- and resulting browbeating -- underscores how unsettled some devoted Democrats feel about the state of their party in the nation's biggest city, a reliably liberal bastion where they outnumber Republicans nearly five to one but have not controlled City Hall in 15 years. 
 ''The Democratic Party is weak in New York City -- and it has no way to control people,'' said H. Carl McCall, a former Democratic state comptroller who ran for governor in 2002. ''There is no loyalty and there are no sanctions for being disloyal.'' 
 Over the last few weeks, the popular Mr. Bloomberg has pounced on that vulnerability, amassing the largest brain trust of Democratic political operatives outside of a presidential campaign, including Barack Obama's head of voter research and Mrs. Clinton's scheduler. 
 In a symbolic blow to the party, he has even lured aides, like Ms. Batista Schlesinger and Mr. Smikle, who have worked for his rivals in the past. (Last year, Mr. Smikle worked as a consultant on the mayoral campaign of Anthony D. Weiner, a Democratic congressman.)
 Of course, Mr. Bloomberg, now an independent, is not that different philosophically from many New York Democrats. He was a Democrat until the 2001 race, then ran as a Republican and avoided a contentious primary. Last year, he left the Republican Party and became an independent, and said he was tired of partisan bickering.
 And many Democrats hired by the campaign said they had undergone powerful conversions that persuaded them to cross the thin blue political line and work for the mayor.
 Mr. Smikle, for example, said he was deeply moved by how Mr. Bloomberg handled the November death of a close friend and fellow political operative, Terence Tolbert, who worked at City Hall. 
 The mayor warmly eulogized Mr. Tolbert at his funeral, renamed the Harlem middle school he attended in his honor and escorted his family to Mr. Obama's inauguration in Washington -- an event that Mr. Tolbert, who worked on the Obama presidential campaign, had planned to attend. 
 ''What the mayor did was extraordinary,'' Mr. Smikle said. ''That made the difference to me.''
 Even so, working against Mr. Weiner or William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, who is also expected to run for mayor as a Democrat this year, ''is not something you do lightly,'' he said. ''Because you do take hits for it. You get criticized.''
 But in interviews, the Democratic operatives said that they could not pass up the chance to work for the mayor, whom they praised for his bold reforms, nonpartisan spirit and economic savvy. 
 The mayor's intense recruitment of Democrats began in the fall, with the courting of Howard Wolfson, a brand name in the party, who ran the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and served as communications director for Mrs. Clinton's presidential campaign. 
 Hiring such a high-profile Democrat would be a coup -- and serve as a permission slip to the rest of the party faithful to jump aboard. But Mr. Wolfson, a Bloomberg admirer, was not immediately sold on the idea. 
 ''What will our friends think if I do this?'' Mr. Wolfson asked his wife, Teri McCullough, who is chief of staff to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Her response: Most of their Democratic friends in New York had already voted for Mr. Bloomberg. 
 ''We were behind the curve, without realizing it,'' Mr. Wolfson said. 
 Once on the campaign, Mr. Wolfson helped recruit another Democrat, Karen Persichilli Keogh, a fellow Clinton alumnus, who oversaw the senator's New York office. Both sought and received Mrs. Clinton's blessing to work on the campaign, said people briefed on the matter, though Mr. Wolfson and Ms. Persichilli Keogh declined to comment on whether such conversations occurred. 
 ''Come on in, the water's fine,'' Mr. Wolfson recalled telling Ms. Persichilli Keogh. 
 Ms. Persichilli Keogh needed little nudging. In an interview, she ticked off a list of the mayor's achievements that directly affected her family. After the mayor forced fast food chains to display calorie counts on their menus, her daughter, Jessica, all but swore off McDonald's. And when he banned smoking in public spaces, Ms. Persichilli Keogh, a former smoker, found that the cleaner air helped relieve her asthma symptoms.
 ''Yes, I am a political person, but I am also a New Yorker,'' she said, adding, ''That is somebody I want to work for.''
 Aides to the Democratic candidates for mayor are seething over the hirings, which they consider an act of betrayal -- especially since 2009 represented the party's best shot in a decade at retaking City Hall, until Mr. Bloomberg asked the City Council to re-engineer New York's term limits law. 
 ''For a guy like Howard Wolfson, who has criticized him, to do this -- you end up looking like such a hypocrite,'' said Mr. Thompson, whose mayoral campaign had tried to hire Mr. Wolfson. 
 Mr. Wolfson said that he remains a devoted Democrat, but believes that Mr. Bloomberg ''is far and away the best person for the job.''
 Democrats on the Bloomberg campaign said that the mayor has always governed as a left-leaning progressive, with many of his positions -- on gun control, abortion and immigration -- mirroring those of their party. 
 ''Were he a right-wing lunatic, I would not be here,'' said Hank Sheinkopf, who considered working for Mr. Thompson but signed onto the Bloomberg campaign instead. 
 ''He is not that,'' he said. ''He is a Bloomberg. We don't know what that is, but we know it's not Republican.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Basil Smikle was a Clinton aide. Now he's working to re-elect Mayor Bloomberg, an independent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); LIBERAL MEDIA (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ANTHONY D WEINER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



281 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: House Bill for a Carbon Tax to Cut Emissions Faces a Steep Climb

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Representative John B. Larson embarked again this week on his lonely quest to enact a national tax on carbon dioxide emissions. 
 His idea is to set a modest price on a ton of emissions, gradually increasing it each year until the desired reduction in heat-trapping-gas pollution is achieved. Under the bill he introduced this week, virtually all the revenues from the tax would be returned to the public in lower payroll taxes.
 ''The American people want us to level with them,'' Mr. Larson, a moderate Democrat from Connecticut and a member of the House leadership, said in an interview. ''We create price certainty without any new bureaucracies or complicated auction schemes.'' 
 Many economists and academics, as well as a handful of Mr. Larson's colleagues on both sides of the aisle and perhaps a few White House officials, if secretly, agree that a carbon tax is a simpler and more effective means of tackling global warming than the complex cap-and-trade scheme embraced by the Obama administration and most Democratic leaders in Congress.
 The supporters of a carbon tax have watched as the new European cap-and-trade system has failed to achieve its emissions goals while prices for carbon permits have gyrated. They see taxing as a more effective means of cutting emissions than cap-and-trade or other hybrid plans now under consideration.
 But for a variety of political, environmental and economic reasons, a national carbon tax is probably going nowhere.
 Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders argue that cap-and-trade, in which polluters must either reduce emissions on their own or buy credits from more efficient companies, is a better system for assuring reductions, letting the market set the right to pollute.
 But the main reason most in Washington recoil against a carbon tax is political: few are willing to openly advocate billions of dollars in new taxes at a time of economic distress, even though a cap-and-trade program also means higher energy prices. 
 Many Congressional Democrats were around in 1993 when President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore pushed an energy tax and then abandoned it after it failed to generate any Republican support. Some noticed last fall when the Liberal Party in Canada suffered its worst loss ever running on a platform that included a national energy tax.
 Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, is leading a special committee writing the House version of climate change legislation. He voted for the 1993 energy tax bill, which is known -- not fondly -- as the B.T.U. tax, for British thermal unit, a measure of energy output. Mr. Markey has since become a faithful follower of the cap-and-trade school.
 ''I am aware of the economic arguments for a carbon tax,'' Mr. Markey said, ''but politics is the art of the possible, and I think cap-and-trade is possible.''
 He added: ''Somebody once told me that a smart man learns from his mistakes but a wise man learns from others' mistakes. We can learn from 1993 or Canada in 2008, but we should learn.''
 Mr. Gore, who shared a Nobel Prize for his work on climate change, has long advocated a tax on carbon dioxide emissions as a substitute for taxes on income (''We should tax what we burn, not what we earn,'' he says). 
 But in an e-mail message this week, Mr. Gore said that passage of a tax on carbon ''appears to be beyond our reach for the foreseeable future'' and that he could accept a cap-and-trade program if it reduced emissions and provided relief for those most burdened by the costs.
 ''For more than 20 years, I have supported a CO2 tax offset by an equal reduction in taxes elsewhere,'' Mr. Gore wrote. ''However, a cap-and-trade system is also essential and actually offers a better prospect for a global agreement, in part because it is difficult to imagine a harmonized global CO2 tax. Moreover, I have long recognized that our political system has special difficulty in considering a CO2 tax even if it is revenue neutral.''
 Mr. Gore and others pointed out that the United States has had a largely successful experiment with cap-and-trade in the acid rain program set up under the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments. That system brought greater pollution reductions and lower costs than expected, although sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution from a limited number of power plants was a far simpler problem than carbon emissions will be.
 One of the arguments against cap-and-trade is that it requires a complex market for trading pollution permits that could be manipulated by speculators and energy companies. Mr. Larson said the last thing the nation needed after its experience with the housing bubble and the banking collapse was a new market in carbon derivatives. His plan, he said, is simpler and fairer.
 But cap-and-trade advocates said a carbon tax could also be gamed, just as the Internal Revenue Code is. 
 ''The critical thing is to get the emissions you want, and a tax cannot do that without continually recalibrating the price,'' said Tim Profeta, director of the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions at Duke University.
 Mr. Profeta helped Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, draft the first cap-and-trade bill to get serious consideration. ''Given the history of the carbon tax,'' Mr. Profeta said, ''there's a worry that it will poison and delay the debate.''
 Yvo de Boer, who directs the climate change program at the United Nations, said he was agnostic as to how member states meet targets on the emission of heat-trapping gasses. But those who support a carbon tax, he said, are walking uphill. 
 ''If you were a pure economist, the most logical thing is taxation. It is the simplest,'' Mr. de Boer said in an interview. ''But 'taxation' is a word that makes people choke in normal times. And these are not normal times.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative John B. Larson's bill would return nearly all the revenue from a carbon tax to the public in lower payroll taxes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (86%); INTERVIEWS (79%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (71%)

PERSON: JOHN LARSON (90%); EDWARD J MARKEY (79%); BETSY MARKEY (79%); AL GORE (59%); BILL CLINTON (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



282 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Miracles Take Time

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Barack Obama has only been president for six weeks, but there is a surprising amount of ire, anger, even outrage that he hasn't yet solved the problems of the U.S. economy, that he hasn't saved us from the increasingly tragic devastation wrought by the clownish ideas of right-wing conservatives and the many long years of radical Republican misrule.
 This intense, impatient, often self-righteous, frequently wrongheaded and at times willfully destructive criticism has come in waves, and not just from the right. Mr. Obama is as legitimate a target for criticism as any president. But there is a weird hysterical quality to some of the recent attacks that suggests an underlying fear or barely suppressed rage. It's a quality that seems not just unhelpful but unhealthy. 
 Mr. Obama is being hammered -- depending on the point of view of the critics -- for the continuing collapse of the stock market, for not moving fast enough to revive the suicidal financial industry, for trying to stem the flood tide of home foreclosures, for trying to bring health insurance coverage to some of the millions of Americans who don't have any, for running up huge budget deficits as he tries to fend off the worst economic emergency since World War II and for not taking time out from all of the above to deal with -- get this -- earmarks.
 Earmarks.
 More than 4.4 million jobs have been lost since this monster recession officially got under way in December 2007, and we've got people wigging out over earmarks. Folks, get a grip. Some earmarks are good, some are not, but collectively they account for a tiny, tiny portion of the national budget -- less than 1 percent. 
 Freaking out over earmarks is like watching a neighborhood that is being consumed by flames and complaining that there is crabgrass on some of the lawns.
 In the midst of the craziness, conservatives are busy trying to blame this epic economic catastrophe -- a conflagration of their own making -- on the new president. Forget Ronald Reagan and George Herbert Walker Bush and George Herbert Hoover Bush and the Heritage Foundation and the Club for Growth and Phil Gramm and Newt Gingrich and all the rest. The right-wingers would have you believe this is Obama's downturn.
 The bear market would no doubt have magically turned around by now, and those failing geniuses at the helm of our flat-lined megacorporations would no doubt be busy manufacturing new profits and putting people back to work -- if only Mr. Obama had solved the banking crisis, had lowered taxes on the rich, had refused to consider running up those giant deficits (a difficult thing to do at the same time that you are saving banks and lowering taxes), and had abandoned any inclination that he might have had to reform health care and make it a little easier for ordinary American kids to get a better education.
 As the columnist Charles Krauthammer was kind enough to inform us: ''The markets' recent precipitous decline is a reaction not just to the absence of any plausible bank rescue plan, but also to the suspicion that Obama sees the continuing financial crisis as usefully creating the psychological conditions -- the sense of crisis bordering on fear-itself panic -- for enacting his 'big-bang' agenda to federalize and/or socialize health care, education and energy, the commanding heights of post-industrial society.''
 That's a more genteel version of the sentiment expressed a couple of weeks ago by the perpetually hysterical Alan Keyes, a Republican who was beaten by Mr. Obama in the Illinois Senate race in 2004. ''Obama is a radical communist,'' said Mr. Keyes, ''and I think it is becoming clear. That is what I told people in Illinois, and now everybody realizes it's true.''
 I don't know whether President Obama's ultimate rescue plan for the financial industry will work. He is a thoughtful man running a thoughtful administration and the plan, a staggeringly complex and difficult work in progress, hasn't been revealed yet.
 What I know is that the renegade clowns who ruined this economy, the Republican right in alliance with big business and a fair number of feckless Democrats -- all working in opposition to the interests of working families -- have no credible basis for waging war against serious efforts to get us out of their mess.
 Maybe the markets are down because demand has dried up, because many of the nation's biggest firms have imploded and because Americans are losing their jobs and their homes by the millions. Maybe a dose of reality is in order, as opposed to the childish desire for yet another stock market bubble.
 Maybe the nuns in grammar school were right when they counseled that patience is a virtue. The man has been president for six weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANK FAILURES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); FORECLOSURE (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); EMPLOYMENT (51%); WORLD WAR II (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



283 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: President, Visiting Ohio, Salutes Hires

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio 

 BODY:
As another dismal jobs report was issued in Washington, President Obama traveled here on Friday to salute the hiring of 25 police recruits whose jobs were saved by the $787 billion recovery plan he signed into law last month. 
 ''For those who still doubt the wisdom of our recovery plan, I ask them to talk to the teachers who are still able to teach our children because we passed this plan,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I ask them to talk to the nurses who are still able to care for our sick, and the firefighters and first responders who are still able to keep our communities safe.''
 Mr. Obama said 4.4 million jobs had been lost in the United States since the recession began in December 2007, a figure he called ''astounding.'' His administration had ''a responsibility to act,'' he said, and he braced Americans for tougher weeks ahead.
 The president spent less than two hours here, delivering a speech to the new Columbus police officers and trying to rally support for his economic agenda. Since he took office, he has made six stops in states that turned from Republican red to Democratic blue in the election last year.
 It was a far different scene here on Friday than the last time Mr. Obama passed through Columbus, two days before the election, when he appeared before tens of thousands at a rally. Now, as he addressed a few hundred residents, with a few dozen empty chairs, he had a serious and sober tone as he pressed the merits of his stimulus plan.
 Mr. Obama specifically highlighted $2 billion for local law enforcement and criminal justice systems. The Ohio slice of the money is $61 million, officials said, and Columbus is getting $1.25 million. But the allocation covers the salaries of the new police officers only through the end of the year, which Mr. Obama did not mention in his speech at the Aladdin Shrine Center. 
 ''This country has never responded to a crisis by sitting on the sidelines and hoping for the best,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I know that throughout our history, we have met every great challenge with bold action and big ideas -- that's what's fueled a shared and lasting prosperity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



284 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Bigger Share Of Ethanol Is Sought In Gasoline

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Burdened by falling gasoline consumption and excess production capacity, ethanol producers appealed to the government on Friday to raise the 10 percent limit on ethanol in most gasoline blends to as high as 15 percent.
 Ethanol plants are closing across the country and some ethanol producers are declaring bankruptcy. The appeal will require the Obama administration to decide whether to increase federal support for the industry, which has already benefited from an array of subsidies, tax credits and Congressional production mandates.
 ''Approving the use of ethanol blends up to 15 percent is a necessary and positive step,'' said Bob Dinneen, president of the Renewable Fuels Association, an industry lobbying group, ''to ensure the full potential of a robust domestic ethanol industry.'' 
 The Environmental Protection Agency and the Energy Department have been testing higher ethanol blends. The E.P.A. has nine months to review the request, but it could decide before that to increase the blend cap slightly, to 12 or 13 percent.
 Energy Secretary Steven Chu has indicated that he would favor at least a small increase in ethanol levels unless auto companies said there was a risk the change would damage their products. 
 Wesley Clark, the retired general and co-chairman of the pro-ethanol group Growth Energy, said tests thus far had shown that ''there is no technically significant difference'' between blends of gasoline with 10 percent ethanol and 15 percent ethanol.
 ''It's important for American national security to be less dependent on foreign fuels and to create jobs and to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions,'' he said in an interview, arguing that producing more ethanol would do all those things. ''For every billion gallons of ethanol we produce, that's a billion and a half dollars we don't spend on foreign oil.''
 Some automakers have asserted that the use of the higher blends over time could cause corrosion and damage auto emission systems, particularly in older vehicles.
 In a recent letter to the two Senate leaders, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, and Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers joined refiners and several environmental groups in warning that a higher blend level of ethanol in gasoline would ''lead to increased air emissions from gasoline-powered engines and potentially endanger consumers using these engines.''
 Food producers are also lobbying against raising the blend limit. They say any increase in domestic production of ethanol will divert corn from use as food and animal feed, raising food prices for consumers. 
 At the end of 2007, Congress mandated the doubling of corn ethanol use, to 15 billion gallons, by 2015. At the time, gasoline demand was increasing, but now it is declining because of the slowing economy.
 Should current gasoline consumption levels persist and the blend level remain at 10 percent, demand at the nation's gas pumps would be inadequate to absorb the 15 billion gallons of ethanol that refiners are required to blend. 
 Ethanol producers also argue that without higher blend levels, there will be no room for the development of advanced biofuels, like ethanol made from wood chips or biological waste. Congress has set a target of using 21 billion gallons of that type of ethanol and other biofuels by the year 2022.
 The industry has a capacity of 12.5 billion gallons a year, but so many plants have been idled that production is expected to reach only about 10 billion gallons this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wesley Clark, the retired general, who is now with a pro-ethanol group, said tests showed no problems in a higher ethanol blend.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)
 Energy Secretary Steven Chu has said he would favor some increase in ethanol levels as long as it would not hurt autos.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (96%); ALCOHOLS (96%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (93%); BIOFUELS (91%); GASOLINE (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LOBBYING (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); FUEL ADDITIVES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TAX LAW (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); APPROVALS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); FOOD PRICES (64%); ANIMAL FOODS (60%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (71%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); HARRY REID (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



285 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Their Ranks Bolstered, and With Big Issues Ahead, Democrats Stumble

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Republican-led blockade of overdue spending bills in the Senate is providing Congressional Democrats a quick and humbling lesson in the limits of their new power. 
 Despite significant electoral gains in both the House and the Senate, the Democrats have been stymied by Republicans and a few Democratic defectors in what began as a fairly routine push to enact the leftover measures, needed to finance spending in the current fiscal year and tethered together into one $410 billion catchall bill. 
 As a result, Congress had to pass an emergency five-day stopgap on Friday to prevent an embarrassing shutdown of the government in the opening weeks of the Obama administration. 
 The failure left Democrats fretting about how they would perform when dealing with more contentious and complex legislation sought by President Obama on health care, energy, taxes and education. 
 ''What does this mean for the Obama agenda?'' said the chairwoman of the House Rules Committee, Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York. ''We need to get this straightened out.''
 Republicans and others said some Democrats were clearly experiencing sticker shock over the combined costs of the new Democratic agenda, with the $410 billion measure coming on the heels of the $787 billion economic stimulus and just ahead of the $3.6 trillion budget for 2010 and money this year for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 ''Right now Democratic leaders look like they are getting dizzy from all the dollars they think they have to throw around,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, a principal foe of the joined spending bills.
 This year was supposed to be different. Senate Democrats gained seven seats in November, with one more waiting in the wings, moving well beyond the narrow 51-to-49 divide that had hindered them for two years. And a handful of Republicans were willing to side with them in the current spending fight.
 But at least four Democrats balked, citing the bill's earmarks, its overall cost or its provisions on Cuba policy. That left the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, standing uncomfortably on the floor Thursday night without the 60 filibuster-breaking votes he had thought were in his pocket only hours earlier.
 Even Mr. Reid seemed uncertain Friday about where things had gone wrong. ''The Senate is the body it is,'' he said. ''It is sometimes difficult even for those of us who serve here to fully comprehend.'' 
 It is not just the Senate where an increase in Democratic ranks is proving to be no guarantee of legislative success. After the Senate overcame decades of resistance and passed a bill that would give the District of Columbia a Congressional vote, House Democrats now find themselves unable to advance their version because Republicans are threatening to extract a vote on gun rights as the price. Many Democrats seem ready to go along, fearing a rebuke by the National Rifle Association more than the disappointment of their own leaders.
 Having been routed in the election, and still in the midst of political soul-searching, Republicans are clearly enjoying the spectacle of Democrats' stumbling on the omnibus bill after days of Republican complaints about pet projects and run-amok spending. The bill seems likely to pass early next week, but not before Republicans force Democrats to vote on a series of politically charged amendments while subjecting them to a final few more days of accusations over the earmarks.
 Democrats are angry at what they see as hypocrisy, given that Republicans including the minority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, stuffed earmarks into a bill they are now criticizing. But some are also upset at fellow Democrats for refusing to back the bill, or at least the procedural effort Thursday to force a final vote. 
 Two of those dissidents, Senators Evan Bayh of Indiana and Russ Feingold of Wisconsin, balked at the earmarks and spending. Two others, Senators Robert Menendez of New Jersey and Bill Nelson of Florida, were resistant to some easing of policy toward Cuba and were not immediately reassured by talks with the Obama administration.
 Frustration spilled out in angry meetings Thursday night between House and Senate Democrats when Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested that the bill be jettisoned, with spending continuing at current levels under stopgaps for the rest of the fiscal year. There was more anger Friday in a House leadership meeting where lawmakers vented about the Senate.
 Some Democrats said the electorate that installed more of their number in Congress might not be forgiving if they proved unable to deliver on the big issues awaiting. They said Mr. Reid was exhibiting a little too much patience with both his colleagues and the Republican opposition.
 ''We have a lot to accomplish, and people have high expectations,'' said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''We need to get our act together.''
 Senate Democrats said their cause would be helped if a court battle over the Senate election in Minnesota was resolved and they could finally fill that seat, giving them 59 votes.
 But Mr. Reid's communications strategist, Jim Manley, said that whatever the majority, the senator could not dictate legislative outcomes. ''Senator Reid is not a king,'' Mr. Manley said. ''If he had the ability to snap his fingers and make things fall into place, he would. The Senate requires consensus.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); GUN CONTROL (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



286 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Obama Highlights Funds for Law Enforcement

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
In January, more than two dozen new police recruits in Columbus, Ohio, were sent notices that they would be laid off, even before they were sworn in as officers. The city had spent $1.4 million to train them, but like cities everywhere, Columbus was running out of money.
 But a few weeks later, the mayor rescinded the layoffs and told the recruits they would be joining the police force after all. 
 The turnabout came after President Obama signed his $787 billion economic stimulus plan into law on Feb. 17. At his signing ceremony, he mentioned Columbus's would-be officers.
 ''While this package is mostly composed of critical investments,'' Mr. Obama said at the time, ''it also includes aid to state and local governments to prevent layoffs of firefighters or police recruits -- recruits like the ones in Columbus, Ohio, who were told that instead of being sworn-in as officers, they would be let go.''
 Friday morning, Mr. Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder visited Columbus to watch the recruits be sworn in as officers. The visit, which is the new president's second to Ohio since he won the state in November, will help him highlight the $2 billion in Justice Assistance Grants that the stimulus package funnels to the states and cities for law-enforcement programs to fight crime and help local economies.
 Columbus is getting $1.25 million of that. But the money is not a panacea for the city's financial woes, or for the recruits either; it covers their salaries only through Dec. 31, and there is no guarantee that they will have jobs after that. The state of Ohio is receiving $1.2 billion from other parts of the stimulus package for housing and transportation projects to spur its economic development.
 Mr. Obama's spokesman, Robert Gibbs, told reporters Thursday that trips like this helped show the concrete ways in which the stimulus package was working. He also said the visit would provide some positive news on ''a day in which there will be some very tough economic figures.'' 
 Mr. Gibbs was referring to the new unemployment numbers, which came out Friday morning and showed the loss of 651,000 more jobs nationwide last month, bringing unemployment to 8.1 percent, its highest level in a quarter century. Against that backdrop, the trumpeting of 25 jobs in Columbus for less than a year only underscored, perhaps inadvertently, the magnitude of the problem.
 Most state and local governments are just now working up their proposals for their law enforcement grants, and there will be tussles ahead as localities compete for their share. Some states, like Maine, are holding public hearings on how to allocate the money. In California, Fresno County wants to upgrade its SWAT robot, which substitutes for humans in some hazardous situations, and in Vermont, the Burlington Police Department wants to hire two social-services specialists to deal with mental health and substance abuse issues.
 In Pennsylvania, Butler County wants to build a secure entrance through which its prisoners can enter the courthouse. The police department in West Jordan, Utah, would install three-dozen digital camera systems in police cruisers and buy more mobile communications systems.
 The proposals will take a while to work their way through the system but Columbus is ahead of the game because its mayor, Michael B. Coleman, lobbied Mr. Holder last month during a reception for the nation's mayors at the White House. Mr. Coleman, the capital city's first African-American mayor and the first Democratic mayor elected in more than 30 years, said in an interview that he impressed on Mr. Holder the city's urgent need to hire back the laid-off recruits.
 ''If I had to wait for the money later in the year, it would be too late,'' Mr. Coleman said, noting that he had to close a budget gap of nearly $100 million. ''I had a very narrow window of opportunity.''
 The urgency, he said, was not that crime was getting worse -- Columbus ranks as the eighth most dangerous city in the country of cities with a population of 700,000 or more -- but that if people didn't feel safe, they wouldn't invest in the city. ''It's easier to create jobs when it's safe,'' he said.
 William L. Scott, 35, is one of the immediate beneficiaries. He is one of the 25 police recruits who were sworn in Friday. On Thursday he said he was crushed when he was laid off, having moved to Columbus from the Dayton area specifically for the police job. He was looking for other police work when word came that the jobs were saved.
 The recruits held a rehearsal Thursday for Friday's ceremony, and Mr. Scott said he was awed when he saw a marker where Mr. Obama would be standing -- and where he would be standing to shake the president's hand. ''It was a hard time getting laid off but this kind of makes up for it,'' he said.
 As for the recruits' future, Mayor Coleman said there are no guarantees. ''But this gives us a chance to work our way out of this,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERIC HOLDER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (97%) OHIO, USA (97%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



287 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Some Consolation, and Advice, for Those in the Top Tax Bracket

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
GENERALLY, being called wealthy is a compliment akin to being deemed intelligent or beautiful: Who wouldn't want it? These days, though, some of the people who have been anointed as rich by President Obama's tax proposals certainly don't feel that way. 
 And that is particularly true for a certain group of residents in the Northeast and on the West Coast. A couple earning $250,000 a year may seem rich in much of the country. But in New York and San Francisco, the high cost of living makes them feel upper middle class, at best. ''It may seem excessive to own a $1 million piece of real estate, but in these markets that's entry level,'' said Ron Florance, senior vice president and director of asset allocation for Wells Fargo Private Bank. 
 One consolation should be that President Obama's plan, if approved, would not take effect until 2011. But 41 percent of the independent investment advisers who participated in Charles Schwab's semiannual survey said they believed the recession would last until 2010. And in terms of when people's portfolios would regain their losses, 35 percent said it would take at least five years. In other words, the recession could end and stocks could show gains just as taxes increase. 
 Add to that the proposals to cut the deductions on mortgage interest and charitable contributions, and the ''mass affluent'' -- to borrow a term banks use -- are feeling beat up. 
 ''Partly what you're seeing is an overload,'' said Keith Whitaker, managing director in the family dynamics group at Calibre, a division of Wachovia Wealth Management. 
 Even though Mr. Obama's proposals essentially return the tax levels to where they were after Bill Clinton increased them in 1993, sentiment could not be more different this time around. ''People weren't excited to pay 39 percent then, but there was lots of opportunity,'' Mr. Whitaker said. ''Now it's: 'My assets are down and they could be down for many years. So I only have my income to rely on.' ''
 Here are some thoughts on ways to win if you feel as if you just lost more.
 ACT NOW People who suddenly find themselves in the highest income tax bracket have a lot of time to figure out how to pay less tax under the new regime. Small-business owners could particularly benefit from acting early. They could start paying themselves a qualified dividend, which would reduce the value of their company and be taxed as capital gains, not ordinary income. 
 ''It's got to be reasonable,'' said Jere Doyle, senior vice president at BNY Mellon Wealth Management. ''You can't flush everything out.'' 
 Another option is to sell all or part of your business to an employee share ownership plan, or ESOP. This is a way to take money out of your company and give an ownership stake to your employees. What you receive is taxed at the capital gains rate, which goes up to 20 percent, from 15 percent, in 2011. 
 For shareholders, it is also a good time to contemplate selling concentrated stock positions that were bought at a low value. This may seem like a cruel joke with asset prices down so far. But Janine Racanelli, head of JPMorgan's Advice Lab, noted that concentrated stock positions would have to outperform the broader index by nearly 5 percent to be worth holding. 
 BUY BORING Municipal bonds offer a quick shot of good news, having both positive returns and tax-exempt status.
 Year to date, high-quality municipal bonds have returned 3 to 5 percent, according to George Strickland, head of municipal bond investments at Thornburg Investment Management. In that same period, the Dow Jones industrial average has lost 25 percent. 
 The added benefit is that returns on municipal bonds are exempt from federal taxes and, if you are a resident of the state where the bond was issued, local taxes. Mr. Strickland calculated that for a New York City resident in the top tax bracket, a New York State general obligation bond would pay the equivalent of 6.67 percent today. Under the new tax regime, that would effectively increase to 7.55 percent. 
 DELAY GRATIFICATION Plans to defer compensation have long been sold as prudent tax deferral strategies. Executives put some income into a company-sponsored deferred-compensation plan and pull it out when they retire into a lower tax bracket -- perhaps even in a state with no income tax, like Florida.
 If your company offers this, it may still be a good strategy, but there are two caveats. First, as Mr. Doyle noted, a deferred compensation plan is a general obligation of a company. If the company goes bust, your plan may, too.
 The other variable is that the tax rate when you retire may be much higher than today. If taxes are constant over time, then it makes sense to defer. If federal taxes were to go up 15 percent -- still below 1970s levels -- deferring income over 15 years would not make sense.
 ''Our message is don't apply the conventional wisdom,'' Ms. Racanelli said. ''We still encourage our clients to defer but to run the numbers.''
 ACCELERATE THE INEVITABLE Next year was set to be the best year for a wealthy person to die. Under the current tax code, the estate tax goes to zero for 2010 and then back up to a $1 million exemption in 2011. But President Obama's tax proposals would preserve the estate tax at 2009 levels -- a $3.5 million individual exemption, with a 45 percent top rate. This is a historic low.
 But the Obama plan would leave a loophole -- on taxes on retirement savings -- in place for 2010. Current tax code starts to exclude single people who earn more than $105,000 a year from putting post-tax money into a Roth I.R.A. Those accounts pay out tax-free gains in retirement. In 2010, though, this limit is set to disappear for one year. This means that anyone can convert a traditional I.R.A. to a Roth I.R.A. Taxes would have to be paid now, because the money went into the traditional I.R.A. tax-free. But this is a deal because those taxes would be paid on depressed assets while all the appreciation would be tax-free. 
 This is too big of a loophole to be an oversight. Ms. Racanelli says she believes it will not be closed, because the government needs tax revenue now. 
 BUY THE RECESSION If a strategy is good enough for Warren E. Buffett, it is probably good enough for you. In September, he invested $5 billion in Goldman Sachs for the right to buy stock at $115 a share. The stock was then trading at $135. Six months later, it is worth $85. Bad bet? In the short term, yes. But Mr. Buffett's genius has always been to buy a solid company and hold onto it for the long haul.
 Most people don't have the stomach for this. But for those who revere Mr. Buffett, this may be a time to follow his lead. ''This is a generational opportunity to invest in future economic recovery at huge discounts,'' Mr. Florance said. 
 The trick, of course, is in picking the companies that will survive the downturn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jere Doyle cautions business owners paying themselves a qualified dividend, taxed as capital gains: ''It's got to be reasonable.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (86%); PRIVATE BANKING (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COST OF LIVING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); FAMILY (63%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (83%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); SCHW (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



288 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Savings Accounts for All: Simple, but Not Easy

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER. 
Suggest your simplified savings plan to rlieber@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In his speech to a joint session of Congress late last month, President Obama said that we must begin a conversation about how to strengthen Social Security ''while creating tax-free universal savings accounts for all Americans.''
 The notion of a ''universal'' savings account is tantalizing. It suggests two possibilities: Giving everyone, no matter how large their employer, an easy way to save some money when they receive a paycheck, and eliminating the alphabet soup of 401(k)'s, I.R.A.'s, 529s and other accounts that we all have strewn about our financial lives.
 Unfortunately, what the president has in mind will probably not greatly simplify the existing system of savings. Nor is it completely universal, the way Social Security is. 
 Still, the president's plan stands a good chance of encouraging millions more people to save for retirement, particularly those with lower incomes who currently have no access to workplace savings accounts. 
 This is a fair trade, though perhaps a better term for what the president has proposed is ''automatic I.R.A.'' It would come in two parts. First, employers that do not currently offer a retirement savings plan would be required to set one up. According to the White House, 75 million Americans, about half the work force, lack access to such a plan. Fidelity, the mutual fund and 401(k) giant, has done research suggesting that the biggest reason employers don't offer one is the cost and complexity.
 So Mr. Obama's plan would piggyback on existing payroll direct-deposit systems, siphoning off 3 percent or so of everyone's salaries and funneling it directly to an individual retirement account, probably a Roth for those who qualify. Employers would have to do little more than select a provider of the I.R.A.'s. There would be a standardized default investment, probably some kind of mutual fund with a mix of stocks and bonds that gets more conservative over time. 
 The key to making this truly widespread, however, is something called auto-enrollment. That means that unless workers opt out of the plan, the money will come out of their paychecks automatically. The White House figures that by using this approach, the savings participation rate among low- and middle-income workers will increase to 80 percent from 15 percent, though there is talk of exempting employers with fewer than 10 workers.
 Does that 80 percent figure sound optimistic? A Vanguard survey from the middle part of this decade of people who were automatically enrolled in a 401(k) found that 77 percent of those who made under $30,000 had stuck with the plan and kept saving, 86 percent of those who made under $50,000 stayed in and 93 percent of people who were paid under $75,000 remained.
 Many of those workers received matching contributions from their employer, which gets to the second part of the Obama plan. A simplified version of an existing tax credit will, in effect, match some of the contributions of lower-wage participants. 
 For households that earn under $65,000, the federal government will match savings up to $1,000 a year with a 50 percent tax credit. So if you saved $500, you would get $250 dropped directly into your I.R.A. This tax credit is refundable, which means you would get it regardless of how much you pay in federal taxes each year. The credit would phase out between $65,000 and $85,000 of household income, or half of that if you are single. 
 So that's the blueprint. It will take legislation to bring it to reality, and it's possible that the auto-I.R.A. could come into existence without the tax credit match.
 As for simplification, the auto-I.R.A. is a bit of a mixed bag. It could improve upon the 401(k) in one important respect, in that people who change jobs could potentially bolt their new paycheck onto their old auto-I.R.A. With 401(k)'s, you start all over again with a new plan when you change jobs (and your employer may not let you sign up for several months or more). 
 Meanwhile, that orphaned 401(k) plan at your old employer may not have a big balance, so you're tempted to simply raid it for vacation money or to pay off your credit card bills, thinking it wouldn't add up to much over time if you rolled it over into an I.R.A. Or you end up with old 401(k)'s scattered about, which is a record-keeping hassle. 
 The scattered-accounts problem is actually a risk with the auto-I.R.A., too. Its architects envision a strict limit on the number of investment choices. That makes it different from normal I.R.A.'s, where you can often invest in whatever you'd like. Even if all auto-I.R.A.'s offered the same limited menu, no matter which bank or brokerage was administering it, account owners could still end up with a bunch of different I.R.A.'s years from now.
 Mark Iwry, nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said that he and David John, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, who together came up with the auto-I.R.A. idea, were well aware of this potential problem. ''Our direction is to facilitate the potential consolidation,'' Mr. Iwry said. (He and Mr. John are also principals with the Retirement Security Project.) ''You're told that you have two I.R.A.'s, here's where they are, and if you want to combine them you could just click here.''
 If that sounds a bit messy, well, that's the paradox of simplification. ''Simplifying is a lot of work. It's a complex undertaking,'' said Pamela F. Olson, a partner at Skadden Arps in Washington, who was assistant secretary for tax policy at the Treasury Department during George W. Bush's first term as president. ''And it's hard to get people to put energy into making it work.''
 In fact, it's hard to get people riled up about the topic in the first place. ''There's no real constituency for simplification,'' added Bill Sweetnam Jr., a principal with the Groom Law Group in Washington, who served as benefits tax counsel for the Treasury Department, also under President Bush. 
 When President Bush proposed consolidating and simplifying various savings plans in 2003, Mr. Sweetnam spoke at a lunch meeting of benefits plan administrators and someone threw a bread roll at him. ''I told them I was happy to be able to talk before dessert came.''
 The problem, according to Mr. Sweetnam, is that nobody wants to deal with the transition costs or complexities of turning a bunch of different types of savings accounts into just one. He adds that each type of account has its own constituency, with various providers insisting that they know their particular 401(k) or 403(b) or 529 market. They want to preserve the comfy status quo. 
 Meanwhile, those of us with the temerity to move from job to job every so often end up with a jumble of accounts. It seems churlish to complain about the unintended consequences of having had the discipline to save in the first place, I know. And policy makers seem to understand that the alphabet soup of savings plans is confusing, even if it is a high-class problem.
 The White House's biggest priority for now, however, is putting more people in the situation where they might have that problem in the first place. ''The automatic I.R.A. is somewhat lower-hanging fruit,'' said Jason Furman, deputy director of President Obama's National Economic Council. ''It's not a massive reconstruction of the retirement savings system. It's achievable. But it would be transformative for tens of millions of people.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); BONDS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



289 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: For McCain, A Dual Role, Center Stage

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain is rewriting the part of presidential loser. 
 Unwilling to vanish into retirement like Bob Dole, or retreat into academia like Al Gore, or even quietly convalesce like John Kerry, Mr. McCain has quickly reclaimed a place on center stage in Washington, some days skewering President Obama and the Democratic Party, and on other days standing by their side. 
 ''I'm the, as I said, loyal opposition,'' Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, proclaimed this week. ''And both words, I think, are operative.''
 If anyone wondered which John McCain would return to the Senate -- the coalition-building dealmaker or the gloves-off bruiser from the campaign trail -- the answer is now clear: both. 
 It was Mr. McCain, as much as anyone else, whose crusade against earmarks dealt a major setback to Democrats when Republicans succeeded on Thursday night in stalling a $410 billion spending bill. In Mr. McCain's scathing words, Mr. Obama's stimulus plan amounts to ''generational theft.'' And yet Mr. McCain has endorsed Mr. Obama's plans to withdraw combat troops from Iraq, and even has gone so far as to appear by Mr. Obama's side when the president ordered increased competition in awarding government contracts.
 Mr. McCain promised on election night to ''do all in my power to help'' Mr. Obama. 
 Some historians say the two men could yet forge the strongest alliance between a president and his election rival since Wendell L. Willkie helped Franklin D. Roosevelt oppose isolationism in the 1940s. 
 But in his first weeks back in the Senate, Mr. McCain has been quintessentially unpredictable, at times offering quiet counsel to the White House, at others jabbing in all directions. 
 On some days, he seems bitter, more certain than ever that he could do a better job running the country than Mr. Obama. 
 ''I have a record of bipartisan work within the Senate; he does not,'' Mr. McCain said on Feb. 19 in an interview with a newspaper in Kingman, Ariz., criticizing the president for what he called a lack of bipartisanship on the stimulus plan. 
 There are also signs that he still harbors grudges from the 2008 presidential campaign. 
 In the debate over the stimulus bill, he did not mask his fury at the three Republicans who backed the Democrats, particularly Senator Susan Collins, of Maine, once a friend, who won re-election in November in part by distancing herself from Mr. McCain and his campaign tactics. 
 He drew a distinction between his own history of forging coalitions and what he portrayed as a betrayal on the part of Ms. Collins, and Senators Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, as the only three lawmakers who broke rank with their party.
 ''I am proud to have been a member of a number of bipartisan resolutions,'' Mr. McCain barked. ''That is when Republicans and Democrats have sat down together and came out in equal numbers.'' By contrast, he said: ''This is three members of the Senate, none on the House side, who have joined Democrats for partisan agreement.''
 At a White House summit meeting last week on fiscal responsibility, Mr. McCain seized the moment to chide Mr. Obama on cost overruns for a new fleet of presidential helicopters.
 But on many days, Mr. McCain seems to have put his defeat behind him, and even to be enjoying himself, as he writes a new chapter in his unusual career. He has joked that he cares less about presidential helicopters than he did a few months ago.
 Asked how he felt after two months back, Mr. McCain said: ''It's terrible. It's awful. I am in a constant state of despondency. Can't you tell?'' There was a giant smile on his face. 
 ''McCain has decided that he is not going to morph into the role of embittered ex-candidate but to embrace the kind of senior statesman, loyal opponent role,'' said Ross K. Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers. 
 Professor Baker added, ''His support will come at times and places of his choosing.'' 
 After a number of younger Senate colleagues announced that they would retire after this Congress, Mr. McCain held a news conference saying he would run for re-election in 2010. 
 Already, Mr. Obama has reached out for his support on national security matters and on some trade issues. (Out of respect, the requests come in calls from Mr. Obama himself.)
 ''I think he is enjoying helping where he can, saying no where he must,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who was often at Mr. McCain's side during the campaign. 
 ''I think John's respectful of the fact that he lost, President Obama won, but he is also a United States senator,'' Mr. Graham added. ''John's going to call them as he sees them. There will be no better ally for President Obama than Senator McCain when they can find common ground, and, quite frankly, there will be no stronger or more credible critic. That's the role he enjoys and the burden he carries.'' 
 Senate Democratic leaders say they hope Mr. McCain will eventually join them in developing legislation on climate change, health care and other issues. 
 So far, though, they have tread lightly, intent on letting him recover before fully engaging him. ''Losing elections is hard,'' the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said. ''I think Senator McCain has conducted himself very well.'' 
 In resuming work on his favored issues, including national security and fiscal austerity, Mr. McCain has rejoined the Senate's rank and file, teaming with Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, to call for revamped military contracting, and with Senator Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, to propose line-item veto legislation to let the president remove earmarks from spending bills. 
 Mr. McCain's quick re-entry contrasts with the path taken by Mr. Kerry, who returned to the Senate from his 2004 defeat but continued traveling the country, keeping alive speculation that he would run again. 
 There is no such speculation about Mr. McCain, who at 72, has had his presidential aspirations dashed twice. 
 Some of Mr. McCain's closest friends in the Senate, including Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said they expected Mr. McCain to emerge as a leader on numerous issues. 
 But in the Senate, friendship has limits. While Mr. Lieberman, the former Democratic vice-presidential nominee, stood behind Mr. McCain in the campaign, Mr. McCain recently opposed legislation by Mr. Lieberman that would grant the District of Columbia a voting member of the House. 
 ''John wants to be productive; he wants to be part of making this place work,'' Mr. Lieberman said, adding, ''He'll be there to help us get some big things done for the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain: outspoken and unpredictable.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); HISTORY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (65%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); AL GORE (74%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (59%); ARLEN SPECTER (59%); SUSAN COLLINS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009



290 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; 2009 GENEVA MOTOR SHOW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: An Auto Show Opens in Denial

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
GENEVA
IGNORE the worldwide recession -- it's pedal-to-the-floor at the Geneva auto show this year, a glittering showcase for six-figure supercars that seems unwilling to acknowledge the grim sales results being announced even as final touches were added to automakers' lavish displays.
Ferrari, Lamborghini, Maserati, Bugatti, Aston Martin, Pagani, Koenigsegg, Rolls-Royce, Spyker, Bentley -- and the list goes on -- are all featuring sexy and souped-up new sports cars in their displays here. It's almost as if these automakers believe that buyers still have bottomless credit lines, home equity to borrow against, flush retirement accounts and heaps of disposable income. 
Some, like the Koenigsegg Quant Concept, which is solar-powered, or the Frazer-Nash Namir, a hybrid styled by Giugiaro, at least nod to a possible shift toward more sustainable forms of mobility in the future. But others, like Bugatti and Aston Martin, seem unapologetic about the prospect of warming the globe with their mega-horsepower internal-combustion engines.
The Geneva show, which opens to the public Thursday after two days of press previews, runs until March 15 at the Palexpo convention center here.
Despite the free fall of sales in the industry, Geneva lives up to its reputation for glitz, glamour and gazillions worth of new cars. The show's organizers promised at least seven dozen world or European new-model debuts.
Sifting through all the glitter, though, it was hard to find substance. Volkswagen offered one of the few meat-and-potatoes models with its new Polo econocar. This is one of VW's biggest sellers, a high-volume model in Europe that VW hopes to also bring to the United States. The fifth-generation Polo is said to sip much less fossil fuel, spewing smaller portions of carbon dioxide while going faster than its predecessor.
Ford offered the new Iosis Max design study, which foreshadows the look of the next generation Focus. The 40-mile-a-gallon Chevrolet Spark, known as the Beat when it won a Internet vote as best among three design studies, will slot into Chevy's lineup below the Aveo in the United States starting in 2011.
Opel, General Motors' European arm, showed the Ampera hybrid (in G.M.'s lexicon, an extended-range electric vehicle) due to go on sale in late 2011. There's a big ''if'' here: the company said its survival might be measured in weeks if more than $4 billion in aid requested from European governments does not come through.
Chrysler was ''dark,'' as they say on Broadway, at Geneva although executives like James Press, the company's vice chairman and president, were on hand for upbeat press briefings. Mr. Press said Chrysler was still hopeful of receiving federal funds to help it survive. Chrysler is also exploring an alliance with Fiat to bring new small cars, perhaps to include the Fiat 500, to America.
The attractiveness of such a prospect was underscored by the introduction here of the irresistible open-air Fiat 500C, with a canvas sliding roof.
Nissan unveiled two concepts, one of which was one of the show's most beautiful, the other one of its ugliest. The beauty was the arresting Infiniti Essence design study; the beast was the ungainly Nissan Qazana crossover proposal, sort of a dune buggy for downtown dwellers.
Unintentionally odd was the new Ferrari 599 GTB Fiorano HGTE. Its cartoonish smiley face grille bears an uncanny resemblance to the ''Cars'' movie character, Lightning McQueen.
It is Geneva, though, and in the auto industry, this is showtime.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fiat 500C.
BMW Concept 5 Series Gran Torismo.
 Mercedes-Benz E-Class coupe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SPORTS CARS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



291 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 47 words

HEADLINE: QUOTATION OF THE DAY

BYLINE: By PRESIDENT OBAMA.

 BODY:
Look, I wish I had the luxury of just dealing with a modest recession or just dealing with health care or just dealing with energy or just dealing with Iraq or just dealing with Afghanistan. I don't have that luxury, and I don't think the American people do either.
PRESIDENT OBAMA. [A1] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (90%); AFGHANISTAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011



292 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Have Smartphone, Can Travel

BYLINE: By JOHN R. QUAIN

 BODY:
CAN a smartphone make you a smart driver? Perhaps.
Most BlackBerry owners, for example, know they can improve their Interstate I.Q. by using the navigation function of their smartphones, and people with a Web browser on their phone can check out World Traffic Cams to see if there is congestion at the Lincoln Tunnel before heading into Manhattan.
Indeed, our love affair with cellphones is increasingly being coupled with our love affair with the automobile, spawning applications -- some silly, some sublime -- that drivers can download to their mobile handsets for little or no money. 
On the practical side, there are programs that help with the more mundane aspects of automobile ownership. One free application for the iPhone, for example, tries to demystify repair bills. Tap in the make and model of your vehicle along with what ails it (for instance, worn brake pads and rotors) and RepairPal spits out estimated parts and labor costs ($417 to $516 in New York City). It does not include diagnostic fees and taxes, but it does offer a list of nearby repair shops with customer ratings, should you want to comparison shop.
Conversely, on the pure fun side, there's Dynolicious. Using the same kind of technology that enables a Nintendo Wii game controller to follow your gestures, this $12.99 application uses an iPhone's built-in accelerometer to gauge 0-to-60 times (to within 0.08 of a second) and other performance characteristics, including lateral G-forces. Like competing programs such as g-tac pro ($19.99), Dynolicious will also let you assess your vehicle's top speed, but to get precise results you'll need to secure the phone in a cradle.
These programs are designed to be used on closed road courses, of course, but for those who can't resist the temptation to test posted speed limits on public roadways, there are programs like the Njection speed trap alert application for the iPhone. The program, which costs $2.99, compiles reports from other drivers to pinpoint speed traps along your route, but the information is only as good as what your fellow speeders provide.
For those looking to decrease rather than increase their carbon footprint, there are several car-related applications that can help. Ecorio is a free program written for Google Android-based smartphones, the first of which is the G1 from T-Mobile. The application will trace your travels and, depending on your mode of transport (Hummer or subway?), keep a running tally of your carbon footprint. By tapping into Google Transit, the program can also suggest the most efficient commuting routes (less time in traffic translates into fewer carbon emissions) and in some locales like San Francisco it offers carpooling information.
For iPhone owners, another eco-friendly but less ambitious program is greenMeter ($5.99). It can estimate the number of barrels of oil your car is consuming and produce graphs illustrating fuel economy at different speeds and rates of acceleration. (As you might expect, a lighter foot will produce better fuel efficiency.) For 99 cents there's also AccuFuel for iPhone hypermilers who mainly just want to track fuel efficiency.
Keeping up with maintenance can also help extend efficiency -- and the life of your vehicle. Gas Cubby ($4.99 for the iPhone) is a maintenance and mileage program that offers service reminders and can store vehicle records that can be exported to Excel spreadsheets. Identically priced Car Care also lets you track oil changes and service expenses.
Trying to track business expenses? Trip Cubby ($9.99) and MileBug ($3.99) help iPhone owners log miles, tolls and parking for expense reports and tax purposes. You can even e-mail reports to the boss from the phone. BlackBerry users can try MileageTracker Pro. An annual subscription costs $29.90.
There's also hand-held help for those of us who are bedeviled by senior moments, especially when it comes to parking the car. Much like a feature now available on many portable navigation devices, there are free programs like ParkMark for G1 owners that remember where you parked. Press a button to note the precise location of your car using the device's GPS, then later, using Google Maps it will lead you back to the appropriate spot.
And for those who are reminded of the looking-for-a-bathroom Seinfeld episode, the answer is, yes. There's a smartphone application for that, too. SitOrSquat is a free program for iPhones and BlackBerrys that locates public restrooms. It even includes user reviews and connects to Google Maps to offer directions.
If you still have trouble finding your wheels, it may indicate that you're in no shape to drive. To track how much you've had to drink --and how it may be affecting your judgment--there's .08? Blood Alcohol Content Calc, a simple but free application for the G1 that estimates your blood-alcohol level based on your weight, sex and the number and types of drinks you've consumed. Similar programs warn in advance that they are ''for entertainment purposes only,'' but Mark Britton, chief executive for the legal site Avvo, emphasizes that his company's free iPhone application isn't a game. Called Last Call, ''it's about helping consumers not step over that line,'' he said.
Last Call calculates your blood alcohol and flashes red if you exceed the legal limit. The program will then find nearby taxi services that you can dial directly. Should you still fail to heed its advice and get pulled over by the authorities, Last Call will put you in touch with a local lawyer who handles drunken-driving cases.
Finally, should you have an accident, there's iWrecked. This $1.99 iPhone program helps you gather all the information you'll need should the unthinkable happen, including the location, time, names and insurance information of other drivers. You can also then use your phone to take photos of the damage and the position of the cars. Assuming, that is, that after all your travails your phone is still working.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPEED CHECK: The Dynolicious application measures 0-60 times.
GAS MISER: Drivers can track their fuel efficiency with AccuFuel. (pg.AU1)
FUEL ECONOMY: GreenMeter measures gasoline use.
CARBON FOOTPRINT: Ecorio suggests more efficient routes.
 ESTIMATE: RepairPal calculates the costs of fixing a car. (pg.AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (96%); SMARTPHONES (91%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (84%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (75%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); EMISSIONS (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%); NINTENDO CO LTD (55%); GOOGLE INC (55%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (51%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%); 7974 (TSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



293 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: The Anti-Bono

 BODY:
In her interview with Deborah Solomon (Questions for, Feb. 22), Dambisa Moyo was right to say that aid to corrupt African governments has missed the mark and that microfinance -- which gives individuals the means to start small businesses -- fosters more sustainable economic development. But so does building schools, training teachers and opening clinics, all of which are being done at the local level throughout Africa. Halting all aid in five years is not the answer -- directing it correctly is. As we move to aid the U.S. economy through the stimulus package, we should not deny the same tools to our African neighbors. 
BARBARA ALISON ROSE Executive Director Aid for Africa Chevy Chase, Md.
I was delighted to read Deborah Solomon's revealing interview with Dambisa Moyo. It is comforting to know that there are knowledgeable economists at work who do not believe that throwing money at problems is the only way to solve them. This was also a welcome change from the preceding week's interview of Bill Ayers, an unrepentant practitioner of violence, who should never be given the credibility of publicity.
JOHN R. LIEBMAN Los Angeles
Dambisa Moyo continues an argument made by John Perkins in ''Confessions of an Economic Hit Man,'' in which he claims that Western aid doesn't help the countries for which it's intended. If Bono, Mia Farrow, George Clooney, et al. just have to save somebody, there is plenty to do right at home.
SANDRITA MASON Los Angeles
Having lived in Ghana for almost four decades, I agree with most of Dambisa Moyo's sentiments about aid to Africa, although not with her views on unregulated capitalism, which I like others believe is one of the major factors behind the current economic collapse. But celebrities like Bono are not the only ones to blame. Many Western governments accept low standards of accountability from African governments and turn a blind eye to corruption. I can speak from personal experience as I watched massive aid pour into Ghana over the past eight years, most of which ended up in the bank accounts of corrupt government officials and their cronies. While Ghanaians looked on helplessly (until the recent elections) as their living standards plummeted, European governments kept heaping praise on Ghana, often describing it as a role model for the rest of Africa.
Most countries need some help, but it should be for projects identified by the recipients that would make a difference to people's lives and, those projects should be strictly monitored by donors so that money is spent where it will be effective and not end up in politicians' personal accounts.
YOLANDE M. AGBLE Queens, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHERINE WOLKOFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); MICROFINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (57%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: BONO (86%); GEORGE CLOONEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFRICA (97%); GHANA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



294 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Even for Market Veterans, It's Uncharted Territory

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
AFTER the steepest decline since the Great Depression, unalloyed optimism among veteran stock market hands is hard to find.
 Byron Wien, chief investment strategist at Pequot Capital Management, says he is an optimist. Yet he advises small investors to buy gold and corporate bonds, not equities, which, he said, may be too risky right now.
 Barton M. Biggs, managing partner at Traxis Partners, a hedge fund, places himself in the optimists' camp, too. Yet he advises well-to-do investors to arm themselves -- with shotguns, if need be -- against the possibility of a deepening downturn and accompanying ''social unrest.'' 
 Peter Lynch, Fidelity's legendary stock-picker, declares himself to be as bullish as ever -- but he adds that this is a congenital attitude, not an assessment of the current market. 
 ''I'm always bullish,'' Mr. Lynch said. A hard-core Boston Red Sox fan, he said his heart would have broken years ago if he'd ever allowed himself to turn negative: ''Three months ago, 12 months ago, 10 years ago, 25 years ago, I'd have said the same thing.'' 
 The fortitude of even the most devoted investors has been sorely tested by the stock market decline, which already ranks among the worst in modern history. ''People say they're afraid of a stock market crash,'' said Mr. Lynch, the former manager of Fidelity's Magellan fund. ''Well, we've already had a crash. Look at the numbers.'' 
 The Dow Jones industrial average is down more than 50 percent from its peak of October 2007. In just the first two months this year, it declined almost 20 percent, its worst start ever. Many markets around the world have fallen even further, and the global economy is still weakening. 
 What's more, over the last 10 years, a period that many investors had considered protracted enough to count as ''the long term,'' the stock market has actually declined in value -- a reversal that generations of investors had never experienced for themselves. And despite government rescue plans around the world, there is no assurance that the slide is over. 
 Henry Kaufman, the Wall Street economist who has often been bearish in the face of market optimism, says that while the stock market will surely recover, many investors will need to lower their expectations. 
 It's not clear that the market today presents a ''buying opportunity,'' he said, pointing to continuing structural problems in the economy. ''There is no golden rule that says how much a market should go down,'' he said.
 Even after the market eventually rebounds, he said, people who expect annual returns of 9 or 10 percent will be disappointed. ''Over the next five years,'' he said, ''annual returns of 4 to 5 percent are in the range that people might expect.''
 Dr. Kaufman said that several popular investing theories ''have fallen apart.'' With nearly all asset classes moving in tandem, he said, diversification hasn't been of much help, and global investing hasn't worked out very well, either. 
 ''Many markets outside the United States are down more than the American markets,'' he said, ''and certainly, in terms of flight to safety, in the fixed-income side, the money is coming back here rather than going out there.''
 And, he said, Wall Street's faith in ''quantitative risk analysis'' has been battered. ''It didn't save anything or anybody,'' he said.
 What should investors do under these circumstances? Buy high-quality corporate bonds, which fell sharply over the last year or so, and which are likely to rise in a market recovery. That makes sense to Dr. Kaufman, as well as Messrs. Wien, Biggs and Lynch. Bonds have the merit of providing steady income, at rates that are now very high; they tend to be less volatile than stocks; and they have a higher legal claim on a company's assets. 
 FOR investors with a truly long-term view, probably 20 years or more, the market will be worthwhile, they said, because stocks should outperform other asset classes. To one degree or another, though, they said investors should be extremely cautious over the short term.
 Mr. Biggs said he thinks it's ''50-50'' as to whether the economy begins to recover over the next year or ''whether we are going into a depression and a deflation,'' which could conceivably be as painful as the 1930s.
 ''If we're going into the 1930s,'' he said, ''it'll be survivalism, and we'll have very substantial social unrest.'' 
 Mr. Wien considers that prospect extremely unlikely, saying he is convinced that the Obama administration's economic and financial rescue plans ''will do the job,'' setting off a stock market rally later in the year. But he also predicted enough disturbance in currency markets for gold to rise to $1,200 an ounce from its current $940 range.
 For his part, Mr. Lynch said that even after this market decline, he would stick to the view that no one should hold stocks unless they could afford to lose an additional 50 percent. And he said he had not deviated from his faith in ''bottom-down stock picking,'' in which investors who have done their research buy shares of just five or six well-priced companies with strong balance sheets and ''compelling stories.'' 
 ''I can't tell you anything about where the market will be in the next six months or 12 months or two years,'' Mr. Lynch said. ''But at some point in the future, I think you'll look back and see that we've gotten through this,'' and that ''stocks turned out to be the best bet.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Byron Wien
Barton M. Biggs (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Henry Kaufman (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS)
 Peter Lynch (PHOTOGRAPH BY WENDY MAEDA/THE BOSTON GLOBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT ADVISERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); HISTORY (67%); BASEBALL (67%); GLOBALIZATION (63%)

COMPANY: PEQUOT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



295 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Dancing With the Average Folk

BYLINE: By DAVID McKAY WILSON

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
 WITH her green dress flowing as she twirled, Rosa M. Estevez moved gracefully around the dance floor with Michael A. Frank at Vintage Bar and Restaurant here, where salsa dancers meet every Wednesday night. 
 ''I just the love the exercise, it's much better than the treadmill,'' said Ms. Estevez, 40, of White Plains, who teaches English as a second language in the Putnam Valley school district. ''I love the music, and you can relieve stress on the dance floor. The music really moves me.''
 Vintage is among scores of places in the New York metropolitan area that are attracting people who find social dance an inexpensive way to enjoy music with others while getting a workout. As millions of viewers each week watch celebrities strut their stuff on television programs like ''Dancing With the Stars,'' adults are meeting in clubs, churches, fraternal halls and historic buildings to find their stride on local dance floors. 
 Dance organizers and instructors said that they had seen an increase in dancers this winter and that the TV exposure has elevated dance in the public's minds. Barbara A. Antes, owner of Westchester Ballroom at Jesse's Villa in Pleasantville, N.Y., said attendance at her parties was up at least 30 percent in the past year. She said she was even moving her March 20 dance, featuring the Bronx Wanderers, to a bigger dance floor, at the Riverview in Hastings-in-Hudson, because the last dance was so crowded.
 Swing dancers are also flocking to the Women's Club in Montclair, N.J.; the auditorium at Town Hall in West Hartford, Conn.; the Norfield Grange in Weston, Conn.; and Sciortino's Restaurant in Brewster, N.Y., where the Sonny Carroll Orchestra plays big band tunes once or twice a month.
 Others do the two-step or waltz to Cajun or zydeco music at the Eagles Hall in Ossining, N.Y. Dancers who prefer to waltz go on one Sunday afternoon a month to the South Senior Center in East Hartford, Conn. Yet others embrace a traditional New England folk dance called contra dance at the Round Hill Community Church in Greenwich, Conn., or the Frank Brush Barn at the Historical Society in Smithtown, N.Y. 
 At a time when the economy is slumping, organizers and instructors say dancers are finding community at dances -- much as Lindy hoppers did during the Great Depression, when that dance form developed in dance halls in Harlem.
 ''You can forget your troubles, it's social, and it's joyful,'' Ms. Antes said. 
 Such dances are attracting adults ranging in age from 20 to 75, some of whom come without a partner. Dancers switch partners often, men ask women to dance, and women often return the favor by asking men. Experienced dancers also dance with newcomers to help them get in the groove. 
 ''It's a really healthy encounter,'' said Simone G. Coonrod, who teaches dance at Rutgers University and Montclair State University and started the twice-monthly Jersey Bounce swing dance at the Women's Club in Montclair in 2001. ''There's touch involved, and there's play and movement in a safe environment.''
 The dances are relatively inexpensive -- from $5 to $20 -- and many have developed loyal followings. 
 Gloria J. Tatsapaugh, 55, a nurse practitioner from Falls Village, Conn., drove 50 miles one Friday night in early February to the Polish National Home in Windsor Locks, Conn., where the D.J., Ken Mercik, hosts a weekly dance for those who like West Coast swing, a stylized version of the Lindy hop that is danced to blues or popular tunes. The next night she drove 80 miles to Ossining, to dance to Jesse Lege and the Red Stick Ramblers at the Eagles Hall, where dancers shared a potluck dinner before the band began playing Cajun music.
 ''I love moving through space in harmony with music,'' Ms. Tatsapaugh said. ''Even if I'm tired after a long drive, once I get there, I get energized. I can't imagine sitting home on a Saturday night.''
 For novices, social dancing can be intimidating. One partner needs to know the basic steps to lead the dance; the other must be able to follow. But most dances have lessons before the actual dance begins so newcomers can learn the basics.
 In Norwalk, Conn., Erik Novoa teaches beginner and intermediate West Coast swing classes on Thursday nights at the Dance Dimensions studio before the weekly dance party there. He began holding dances in Fairfield County in 2006 and now teaches classes and conducts dances in Westchester and Fairfield Counties. 
 One Thursday in February, about 40 dancers gathered in Norwalk to learn moves like the sugar push, the under-arm turn and the tuck turn. They tried out their new moves to music that ranged from the blues to the pop singer Amy Winehouse. During a break, they drank wine or soda while snacking on sandwiches and carrot cake. 
 Among the beginners was Meg R. Brand, 43, a chef from Rye, N.Y., who said she had enjoyed popular dancing as a teenager but had rarely danced as an adult. 
 ''Dancing takes you away from everything around you,'' she said. ''You are just focusing on the moment. I'm loving it.''
 The dances attract married couples and singles. Though the dances are not pickup scenes, some unmarried couples said they had met on the dance floor.
 ''A guy can become a hot commodity once he learns to dance,'' said Mr. Novoa, who lives in Stamford.
 Contra dance is the easiest to learn, said Chart Guthrie, who has helped run the twice-a-month contra dances in Smithtown since 1987. Contra evolved from English country dancing, which experienced a resurgence in New England in the 1960s. Couples dance in facing lines and switch partners often, while a caller gives instructions as fiddlers play traditional tunes. The sequence is repeated over and over, giving newcomers a chance to figure out the patterns. 
 ''You can pick it up pretty quickly,'' Mr. Guthrie said. ''The figures are repeated every 30 seconds. You can mess up, and do it again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DIFFERENT STEPS: Lauren Bova, above, an instructor, dancing with Rob Welch to the music of the Bronx Ramblers at the Westchester Ballroom at Jessie's Villa in Pleasantville, N.Y. Simone Coonrod, below left, leading a line dance during a swing session at the Montclair Women's Club in New Jersey.(PHTOOGRAPH BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DANCE (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); COUNTRY MUSIC (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); CITIES (70%); HISTORY (68%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (68%); RELIGION (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



296 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: W.B.C. Comes to Town, but Mexico Shrugs

BYLINE: By DAN ROSENHECK

 BODY:
The three national teams visiting Mexico City for the first round of the World Baseball Classic represent the extremes of the sport's popularity around the globe. For Australia and South Africa, the game is little more than a curiosity, while Cuba has long viewed its domination of international amateur competitions as evidence of its superior system of government.
 Uncomfortably nestled between these poles is Mexico, which the sports historian Peter Bjarkman calls ''the poor cousin of the Caribbean baseball family.'' 
 On one hand, Mexico has one of the world's richest baseball traditions. In the 1930s and 40s, its professional leagues hosted Negro League greats like Josh Gibson and Cool Papa Bell. Since integration, Mexico has sent 106 players to the majors, the sixth-highest tally. Fernando Valenzuela, the pudgy southpaw screwballer whose magical rookie year in 1981 fueled an unprecedented outburst of Hispanic sporting pride in the United States, hailed from Mexico's northwestern desert. Mexican clubs have taken home five Caribbean Series titles.
 Despite this legacy, the country stubbornly refuses to embrace the game. By any metric, soccer towers over baseball in Mexico's sports consciousness, even though the national team has never reached a World Cup semifinal and Mexicans' exploits for European soccer clubs are modest. Baseball is considered a mere regional game played in the north and southeast, where the influence of the United States and the Caribbean is strongest. 
 ''In Mexico City, people dress like gringos, they listen to gringo music and they drive gringo cars,'' said Gonzalo Camarillo, a sports journalist. ''The only part of gringo culture they don't like is baseball.''
 History, politics and economics have conspired to limit Mexicans' appreciation for the sport. One chief obstacle has been labor strife: after a bitter players strike in 1980, the country's summer league handed down an avalanche of lifetime suspensions, even erasing the ringleaders from the record books. The combination of the work stoppage and the lesser quality of play once games resumed turned a generation of fans away from the sport. 
 Since then, internecine rivalries between the summer and winter leagues, and between professional leagues and the amateur baseball federation, have made nationwide efforts to promote the game nearly impossible. And the sport has suffered from severe neglect by the news media: Mexico's broadcast television companies -- Grupo Televisa and TV Azteca -- have focused their coverage on soccer, in no small part because they own five soccer teams between them.
 Moreover, an informal arrangement between the American and Mexican baseball leagues has prevented United States teams from recruiting and training prospects here as they do in the rest of Latin America. Clubs in the Mexican summer league earn a significant chunk of their revenue from selling the rights to their top players to American teams. Although there is no legal obstacle to major league franchises avoiding these payments by signing Mexican amateurs directly, United States teams have broadly accepted their counterparts' control over their territory. 
 Moreover, the Mexican owners have instituted a formidable unwritten enforcement mechanism: if a Mexican amateur signs with an American team and subsequently wishes to return to his home country, no summer league club will hire him. As a result, young Mexican athletes have little access to the lucrative major league signing bonuses available elsewhere in the region, pushing them to pursue careers in other sports.
 As the world's 12th-largest economy, Mexico is probably the most promising growth market for baseball outside the United States -- the type of opportunity the Classic was designed to capitalize on. And efforts to promote the sport here received an unexpected boon in the inaugural edition of the tournament in 2006, when the Mexican team eliminated the heavily favored United States squad in a 2-1 nail-biter. There are few better ways to sell a product in Mexico than by promoting the local version's superiority to its gringo equivalent. 
 ''When the Mexican team beat the U.S. in baseball, it was seen as revenge for the soccer team's loss to America in the 2002 World Cup,'' said Alejandro Hutt, whose company, Alhuva Entertainment, is running promotional efforts for the Classic in Mexico.
 But the euphoria resulting from that triumph was short-lived. Mexican league clubs made few marketing efforts to build on the national team's success, and the sports media promptly returned to its steady diet of soccer programming. 
 Local league officials say the challenge in this incarnation of the Classic will be to sustain the momentum it generates for baseball once the competition ends. 
 There are signs of progress: unlike in 2006, Televisa will broadcast the games in Mexico City, albeit on tape delay. But other aspects of the tournament have been criticized. Ticket prices are well out of range for working-class Mexicans -- a seat down the right-field line represents a week's worth of labor at the legal minimum wage -- and the scheduling system (in which the participants in most games are not specified ahead of time) has complicated TV programming decisions. Barring an unlikely run to the finals by the Mexican team, soccer's dominance of the sporting landscape south of the border seems safe. 
 ''Mexicans are very spontaneous and reactive,'' said Alberto Saucedo, the president of the Mexican Baseball Hall of Fame. ''People get excited in a hurry and then forget about it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMATEUR SPORTS (89%); SOCCER (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); HISTORY (76%); WRITERS (64%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (62%); STRIKES (62%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: GRUPO TELEVISA SA (58%); TV AZTECA SA DE CV (58%)

TICKER: TV (NYSE) (58%); TLEVISA (BMV) (58%); AZTECA (BMV) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



297 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; FLATBUSH AVENUE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: For the Dollar Vans, a Gleam in the Eye

BYLINE: By STEPHEN REX BROWN

 BODY:
THE race begins at the intersection of Kings Highway and Flatbush Avenue in Flatlands, Brooklyn. 
 ''This is where we clean up, gas up and hit the street,'' said Osmond Thorne, his white 14-passenger van idling at the curb. 
 Unlike nearly every other New Yorker, Mr. Thorne and his fellow drivers of Flatbush vans have been eagerly awaiting the near-certain increase in bus and subway fares. The drivers know that if fares rise, many bus riders will look to the Flatbush vans to get around Brooklyn cheaply. 
 The vans, which zip along Flatbush Avenue between Kings Plaza and downtown Brooklyn and charge a flat rate of $2, may be one of the lucky businesses that prosper in the recession. 
 ''I am very optimistic because of the economy,'' said Sulaiman Haqq, an owner of Brooklyn Van Lines. ''People still have to travel. Even if they don't have a job, they have to go look for one. That is an opportunity for us.'' 
 Devon Gordon, a Brooklyn Van Lines driver who was cruising down Flatbush Avenue honking at pedestrians to signal his availability, is a 16-year veteran of this job. He, too, recognized the opportunity that hard times can bring, but he was also concerned about his South Flatbush neighbors. 
 ''That's too much for the people,'' Mr. Gordon said of a fare that might reach $3, as he gunned past an 18-wheeler that was blocking traffic. ''People have to live, eat and take care of their family.''
 Inside the van, thick with the aroma of air fresheners and incense, a television monitor attached to the ceiling showed a commercial for a Web site offering free listings of foreclosed properties. 
 Near Avenue I, Mr. Gordon spotted a passenger. 
 ''Get in, baby,'' he called out as he pulled his vehicle up to the curb.
 The passenger, Cemon Nelson, said she liked the vans because they allow riders to save time as well as money. ''It's a faster way to get to the bus or train,'' Ms. Nelson said. ''Look, we're going to pass three buses right now.''
 A woman sitting next to her chimed in, with slight irritation in her voice. ''And he's not even driving that fast.'' 
 Last summer, because of high gas prices, the 150 or so vans that ply Flatbush Avenue raised their fares from $1.50 to $2, a change that led to a 25 percent drop in ridership, according to Mr. Haqq. But with gas prices down, there is even discussion of cutting the fare back to $1.50.
 At the moment, the van business is not proving highly profitable, especially for the minority of vans, like Mr. Gordon's, that are legal and therefore burdened by insurance and licensing costs. But even for Mr. Thorne, who like most drivers ignores the costly permits and insurance, times are tough -- at least until the fare rises.
 ''Right now, we're losing because we're even with the M.T.A,'' he said, having picked up only three riders -- a measly $6 -- on his journey to Empire Boulevard. 
 To Mr. Haqq, the fare increase cannot come soon enough. ''I just hope the bailout doesn't delay the process of raising fares and cutting routes,'' he said, ''because it is good for us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At least one type of business is hoping that bus and subway fares will rise.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



298 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Rentals for a Pioneering Spirit

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: BAYONNE 

 BODY:
 HERE on a peninsula jutting into the Hudson River, with a landscape so stark it served ably as a set for the 2005 remake of ''War of the Worlds,'' the outpost of a new civilization is being created. The economy permitting, it will take the form of rental apartments.
 Surrounded by giant piles of dirt and deep cuts for new roads, and under the steely gaze of enormous insect-like cranes on the nearby docks, the 544-unit Alexan at Bayonne Bay is rising steadily. In fact, leasing for the first 100 units is supposed to start in June, according to its developer, Trammell Crow. 
 The recession has stalled other companies' approved projects on the peninsula, and caused one player to drop out, Bayonne city officials say. But Trammell has proceeded and appears confident of success.
 ''We went into this with our eyes wide open,'' said Richard Murphy, a managing director of Trammell Crow in Morristown. ''We know that development on the Bayonne peninsula will be an ongoing process, but we think we can create a fantastic environment for our residents.''
 Rental rates for the one- to three-bedroom units at Alexan have not yet been established, according to Mr. Murphy, but he said that they would be much lower than those in Manhattan, Hoboken and Jersey City, and that a 10,000-square-foot clubhouse and parking facilities would open at the same time as the first available apartments.
 In addition, a June startup is envisioned for shuttle service to the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail line stop just inland of the peninsula -- connecting to PATH train service to Manhattan -- and also limited ferry service to Manhattan from the point of the peninsula.
 The rental units will be the first residential construction at what is now called the Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor, a 297-acre former military ocean terminal just south of another, similar-size peninsula devoted to maritime industrial business. The military operation was shut down and the land ceded to the town for redevelopment in 1999.
 Since then, an ambitious plan has been adopted, establishing five large parcels that are to sustain different types of development: 6,700 housing units, as well as office space, retail, hotel/convention facilities, and a permanent dock for the Royal Caribbean cruise line, which already operates there.
 Even before the economy froze up, said John P. Clarke, a partner with the Trenton architecture firm Clarke Canton Hinton, which wrote the master plan for redevelopment three years ago, ''the plan was expected to take 10 to 15 years to realize.'' 
 ''The scale is extremely massive,'' he said. ''For example, Battery Park City, which was 20 years in the planning, by the way, is 97 acres. This is around three times that size.''
 Right now, the harbor peninsula has the curious aura of a place where dreams and desolation commingle. 
 The Alexan is framed out to its full four-story height -- and just south, across the Bayonne Bay channel, the lighthouse tower on the clubhouse at the private Bayonne Golf Club stands tall on a grassy hill.
 But elsewhere on the peninsula, only a few spare, squat military structures are left -- after the base was razed to make way for the new project, and enough fill was dumped in to raise the surface of the entire land mass out of a 100-year-old flood plain.
 At the point of the peninsula stands a gift from Russia to the New York metropolitan region: a 100-foot-tall ''teardrop'' 9/11 memorial sculpture, now surrounded by a new landscaped park. And now that the channel between the peninsulas has been dredged, the Explorer of the Seas, Royal Caribbean's largest cruise ship, glides in and lends its grandeur for a time between passages.
 But elsewhere along the east-west length of the peninsula there is mainly earth -- vast expanses and impressive piles of dirt with tractors perched on them.
 ''The first people who move there will have to possess a pioneering spirit,'' Mr. Clarke said. Suzanne Mack, the chief planner at the local redevelopment authority, echoed that view, adding, ''They will have to have excellent forward-thinking skills, and an ability to appreciate the rough beauty of what is here now.'' Ms. Mack's office is on the peninsula, in a small concrete building that once served as a military ''hotel.''
 Mr. Murphy of Trammell Crow said the prospective renters his company had in mind did not include families with children.
 ''Young professionals, looking for a cheaper alternative to Manhattan with a good commute time,'' he said. ''That's who we think our first settlers will be.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the ''In the Region'' article in New Jersey and Manhattan copies last Sunday, about the Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor, a large-scale redevelopment in Bayonne, misspelled the name of the Trenton architecture firm that wrote the master plan for the project. It is Clarke Caton Hintz, not Clarke Canton Hinton. And a rendering of the project carried an incorrect credit. The rendering was by Clarke Caton Hintz, not Carrier Johnson Architects.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RECLAMATION: Trammell Crow is proceeding with its part of a redevelopment plan in Bayonne. Its rental units, above, will be the first residential piece of the 297-acre Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor (rendering at top). The site is also home to a 9/11 memorial gift from Russia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RENDERING BY CARRIER JOHNSON ARCHITECTS)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); FERRIES (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); CITIES (69%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); CRUISES (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%)

COMPANY: TRAMMELL CROW CO (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



299 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Betting on Just How Far Apartment Prices Will Fall

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
WITH sales prices of Manhattan apartments having tumbled by perhaps a quarter in just the past few months, pinpointing the bottom has become a top priority for anyone eager to buy, sell or broker a deal on a home in New York. 
 Some industry observers foresee market drops of 40 percent, while others think that is too extreme and suggest that price reductions of 25 percent will more be likely the new norm. 
 There's no question, though, that the boom-or-bust experience has arrived in Manhattan, which had seemed to be avoiding the fate of Las Vegas and Florida. 
 ''It's almost surreal,'' said Dottie Herman, the president of Prudential Douglas Elliman, referring to the abrupt turnabout after the collapse of Lehman Brothers last fall. Until then, prices had been marching upward, with the median price of an apartment more than tripling in a decade. 
 To some degree, the rise in prices was logical in New York, where a string of outsized Wall Street bonuses lined the pockets of many buyers. That wasn't the case in other parts of the country, which suffered from speculation and a large number of subprime mortgages.
 No one has any hard numbers yet on New York because first-quarter reports, reflecting closing prices of deals struck last fall, will not be available for a few weeks.
 Looking ahead, however, some believe it is possible that the average slide from peak values could reach 40 percent by the end of 2010, with variation by neighborhood and market segment. That would put values back to levels last seen around 2002. 
 Others are more optimistic. ''I'm not disagreeing with you that values are coming down,'' said Pamela Liebman, the president of the Corcoran Group. But, she said, ''there's no way the Manhattan market is dropping to those levels that are being talked about. Certain apartments might, but as a whole it will not happen.''
 Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens, said he, too, would be surprised by a decline that large. 
 ''A lot of negative things would have to happen in the general economy,'' he said. He is seeing sales prices 15 to 25 percent below those of last summer, with renters making up an ever-increasing percentage of buyers. And he saw a positive sign in the fact that, despite all of the bad economic news, sales volume is about half what it was this time last year.
 Jonathan J. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, a Manhattan research and appraisal company, estimates that contract prices have declined by about 25 percent since last summer.
 Just how much further prices will dive may depend more on how soon and how generously banks resume lending than on the recovery of Wall Street or the end of the recession.
 Ms. Herman said she expected the brunt of the pain to be borne within the next six months. Others expected the downward drift to last for a year to 18 months, until credit markets regain their equilibrium.
 When will we know when the market has reached the bottom? 
 Frederick Peters, the president of Warburg Realty, noted that some deals his firm had brokered lately were nearing the lows being predicted by others. ''Even if the New York market were to end up being 35 to 45 percent down,'' he said, ''to the degree we're seeing deals done at 30 to 32 percent down anyway, it's not very far away.''
 Mr. Miller says sales activity needs to stabilize first. ''You're approaching bottom when you start to see sales activity stop declining and level off,'' he said. ''Pricing begins to push up when you have an extended period, like a year, when sales activity doesn't decline anymore.''
 One measure of just how anorectic sales have become is the bloated state of inventory. 
 ''It's right now the highest since I started tracking in 1999,'' Mr. Miller said. Inventory levels in Manhattan have averaged 7,021 a month for the last decade, he said, and there were 10,243 co-ops and condominiums for sale at the end of February -- 38 percent more than a year ago.
 Many expect that the million-dollar segment will stabilize first because it is powered by first-timers who are drawn by falling prices and don't have to sell before they buy. The process is being helped along by federal efforts to increase mortgage lending: The latest stimulus package enables Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to extend loan guarantees to New York City mortgages originated this year for up to $729,750.
 Mr. Peters predicted that larger apartments, in the three-bedroom-and-up category, would stabilize over the next six months. Those buyers, he said, tend to have an easier time obtaining mortgages through private banking relationships and will become more active once sellers trim prices.
 Large drops in prices are not new in the city. The last decade-long increase in prices was followed by about seven years of falling prices starting in the early 1990s, said Ingrid Gould Ellen, the co-director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University School of Law. Prices fell about 29 percent.
 ''But there's no rule that a downturn has to be six or seven years,'' she said. ''It's possible that rather than seeing price declines spread out over a six-year period, this time it could be concentrated in a two-year period.'' 
 Indeed, both Ms. Herman and Ms. Liebman note that this recession differs from previous ones in that there are buyers on the sidelines this time. 
 ''We see a real increase in traffic and a lot more buyers out there,'' Ms. Liebman said. ''The fish are circling and they will eventually get hungry and start biting. What we're seeing is a big disconnect -- sellers need to get more realistic, but buyers don't even think it's enough. Buyers are not hesitating to walk in and bid 40 percent off the price, but sellers aren't taking it.''
 Recovery, when it arrives, is predicted to be modest. Lenders aren't expected to return to the open-valve position of the boom years. 
 Ms. Herman said she anticipated a return to annual appreciation rates of 5 to 7 percent. At 6 percent annual appreciation (should that occur after the market stabilized), it would take about nine years for an apartment worth $1 million at peak -- and about $600,000 at bottom -- to regain its value, according to calculations by Mr. Miller. 
 The degree and rate of recovery will be influenced by various factors. A Goldman Sachs analysis of the New York City condo market published in early January addressed the possibility that pay cuts in the financial industry or a significant departure of affluent residents could reduce incomes to their pre-Wall Street boom levels of two decades ago. If per-capita incomes were to revert to twice the national average (versus more recent measures of three times the national average), condo prices would need to fall by 58 percent to match the price-to-income ratios of the late 1990s, before the run-up in the real estate market, according to the analysis.
 The leveling of the boom may strike condos and co-ops differently.
 As prices head south, Mr. Miller said that he expected condos to be more volatile. New construction, including condo conversions, seems likely to suffer the most. ''Contract activity on new development has been much harder hit than co-op resales because of credit,'' Mr. Miller said. 
 Co-op boards, however, could damage themselves, he said, if they become too picky with buyers. 
 ''The danger they face is that co-op boards are in denial about the change in the market,'' Mr. Miller said. ''They've been even more conservative with this downturn in terms of financial qualifications -- if you work on Wall Street now that's like a liability -- and they've been killing sales that they feel are low, to protect values in the building.'' 
 That sort of behavior only depresses values within a building. ''It gets a reputation in the brokerage community of being unrealistic about market conditions and that makes it much more difficult to attract buyers,'' Mr. Miller said. ''I'm not saying they shouldn't be prudent, but by overreacting they are doing what lenders are doing, which is damaging the collateral they are trying to protect.'' 
 Mr. Peters said his firm had negotiated some co-op deals ''dramatically below where prices have been.''
 ''What we see is that boards are scrutinizing the purchases carefully but not striking down the deal because the price isn't high enough,'' Mr. Peters said. ''I definitely agree that in the current environment, that would be profoundly foolish, because the world is a different place.''
 A different place and possibly a better one, said Ms. Liebman, who like many brokers manages to see the positive in any environment that comes along. ''Why should an average one-bedroom with nothing special to offer cost well over a million? The market got ahead of itself, and this correction is good for New York because it brings the affordability back in line.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (52%); DECISION RESOURCES GROUP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



300 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Adding Bands To the Beat

BYLINE: By C.J. HUGHES

 BODY:
IT was back in 1953, when RCA Victor set up a studio in the Grand Ballroom of Webster Hall in Manhattan to achieve a level of reverberation that would help the label compete with Columbia Records. Perry Como recorded his ''Como Swings'' there in 1959, which displayed Como in slacks and a blue shirt on a golf course. 
 As the world changed, and music with it, so did the acts the venue attracted: in 1967, Jefferson Airplane staged its first concert in New York inside. On Dec. 6, 1980, U2 ushered in the post-punk era here -- it was called the Ritz at the time -- when it pounded out ''I Will Follow'' in its first gig in the United States. And on Feb. 2, 1988, Axl Rose of Guns N' Roses, standing on the same stage, before screeching ''Sweet Child O' Mine,'' inflated a condom like a balloon.
 Since then, live music has been a rarity in the aging building on East 11th Street in Greenwich Village. Instead, the sound most often heard has been electronica, like house music, whose turntable-fueled beats scored popular dance parties where glow-stick necklaces were the accessory of choice. 
 Now, Webster Hall has finished a $3 million, yearlong renovation of its four-level space and live music has returned in force. D. J. booths have been removed to make way for new stages, and a new venue within the venue, called the Studio, has been added. House music will still throb, but the owners are betting that rock fans can be lured inside, too.
 If the plan succeeds -- and in this economy, nothing is guaranteed -- Webster Hall may solve a problem that has plagued club owners since people started venturing out of their homes to shimmy at night: how do you make extra money from rooms that basically sit unused between 6 a.m., when crowds file out, and 11 p.m., when the doors reopen for business? Some have tried restaurants, to mixed success. 
 And will everyone get along? After all, rockers and club kids have traditionally gone their separate ways on weekends.
 Take Chris Steele, who came to see the band Southeast Engine in the Studio recently. He planned to leave right after the band's last song, even though his $8 ticket would have covered him for the night at a place where the vinyl crowd shelled out $35. 
 ''Personally this is more my thing,'' he said. ''I'm more into live music than dancing.''
 In a city where fewer people party than they used to, according to club owners, the club's everything-including-the-kitchen-sink approach is one way to try to increase attendance. It could also serve as a hedge against the recession, which has sent some bar business plunging 40 percent. Finally, a paradigm shift in musical tastes could play to Webster Hall's advantage.
 For a generation raised on iPods that can pack thousands of disparate songs, and who attend music festivals with increasingly eclectic lineups -- in June, Bonnaroo in Manchester, Tenn., will feature Nine Inch Nails, Snoop Dogg and Phish -- putting an eclectic mix of styles under one roof might seem in sync with the times.
 ''This is a different world, where you can easily access everything under the sun with the quick push of a button,'' said Craig Inciardi, an associate curator at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland who helped set up its New York annex last fall. ''Webster Hall is trying to appeal to these people who have varied musical tastes.''
 Charles Goldstein, a cigarmaker, built Webster Hall in 1886 for $75,000, with a design by Charles Rentz Jr., an architect and beer vendor, for ''balls, receptions, Hebrew weddings and sociables,'' according to a December 1886 article in The New York Times. 
 But it soon came to be known for rowdy parties, many of which featured live music, like the fund-raiser for General Grant's memorial in September 1887, or the fete for the French Revolution centennial in May 1889.
 In the early 1900s, Webster Hall's guest lists featured artists of all sorts, including F. Scott Fitzgerald, Man Ray and Marcel Duchamp. Around the same time, Greenwich Village became a center of gay and lesbian life, and the club was frequently a gathering place.
 Unity Gallega of the United States, which later bought the building, and which still owns it, put on a klezmer concert there in 1978. But in 1980, with the downtown music scene thriving, the company leased out the space to the Ritz, which tended to be more New Wave-focused than CBGB, its more famous, and more punk, downtown neighbor.
 Legs McNeil, the author and longtime East Village resident who's credited with popularizing the term ''punk,'' recalls seeing Public Image Limited and the Ramones there, but an even more memorable moment was sitting in the club's balcony listening to someone have loud sex in a bathroom. That same balcony would also shake noticeably when the crowd started dancing, ''and you wondered if the whole thing was going to collapse,'' he said.
 Of course, that was nighttime. Finding a way to fill clubs before sunset has long been a puzzlement to those who run them.
 Lotus, a 10,000-square-foot meatpacking district club that closed in 2008 after eight years, filled some of that gap with a restaurant. David Rabin, a Lotus owner who also serves as president of the New York Nightlife Association, a trade group, said that if Webster Hall could lure patrons inside in the early evening, for performances that often kick off at 7 p.m., it, too, might benefit. Any extra revenue, he added, is important during the downturn.
 ''It's not an easy transition to become a rock club, and they're not necessarily going after the same audience, so it won't be an easy message to get across,'' Mr. Rabin said. ''But they have a great location, and if they program intelligently, at an appropriate price point, they should do fine.''
 Although late-night noise from cars did result in the temporary closing of the club's block to car traffic in the 1990s -- and despite those rowdy parties for General Grant -- Webster Hall has not gotten into much trouble over the decades, unlike so many other New York City clubs. It had only six official noise complaints in 2008, said Deputy Inspector Dennis De Quatro, commanding officer of the Ninth Precinct in Manhattan.
 Webster Hall's renovation was handled by Steve Lewis, a New York night life mainstay who's managed the Palladium, Life and Spa. He and his partner, Marc Dizon, added banquettes, tables, and a small likeness of Michelangelo's David, covered in green stripes. And though they also put in three dozen flat-screen TVs in a rear hallway that show mind-bending geometric patterns, they kept a lot of what made Webster Hall so unusual in the first place: its mazelike layout, which recalls that of a Halloween-theme suburban haunted house. 
 Past a pinkish facade, with its bearded-men carvings and griffin light-fixtures, marble stairs descend to checkerboard-tile floors bathed in red lights. Oddly placed thick-frame mirrors line dim hallways. Doors lead from rooms into other rooms, each smaller than the first, like a walk-through take on a Russian nesting doll.
 And surprises aren't surprising, as anyone who used to visit the old Ritz in the early '80s discovered, when a screen dropped from the ceiling showing grainy early music videos (''Video Killed the Radio Star'' was often one) before the evening's band took the stage. 
 ''The old girl's always had good bones, always a wonderful piece of architecture,'' said Lon Ballinger, the club's owner. ''Our goal was to make her look beautiful again.''
 The ultimate judges of whether he succeeded will obviously be patrons, who seem skeptical but willing to keep an open mind. Before a December performance in the ballroom by Cansei de Ser Sexy, a Brazilian band, Sunny Cover, 39, of Peekskill, N.Y., reminisced about dancing at Webster Hall a decade ago.
 ''It's insane that this place lasted as long as it has,'' Ms. Cover said. ''I can't believe I'm back.''
 Nearby, Amanda Cobell, 22, of Kinnelon, N.J., also admitted that she associated the place with ''cheesy dance tunes,'' an impression reinforced by the preconcert musical selections blaring from overhead speakers, like Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch's ''Good Vibrations,'' a 1990s club staple.
 ''Wow, this song reminds me of when I was 10 and listening to Z100 and they would keep saying, 'Come hear the beats at Webster Hall,' '' Ms. Cobell said. ''I guess I finally did.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOING LIVE After a renovation, Webster Hall is hosting more live music.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
OLD NEIGHBOR: Webster Hall has a long history in the Village. At right, garment workers at the building in the early 1900s. By having more concerts, the club may be able to attract an earlier crowd.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); APPAREL MFG (71%); GOLF (71%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



301 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Volvos From Florida

BYLINE: By LAN SAMANTHA CHANG. 
Lan Samantha Chang, the director of the University of Iowa Writers' Workshop, is the author of ''Inheritance.''

DATELINE: Iowa City 

 BODY:
 MY husband, Rob, and I are riding out the recession in a 2000 Volvo wagon we bought last summer from a man named Gary Dunne. A friend recommended Gary when we expressed concerns about driving with a new baby in the tiny, aging cars of our former lives. 
 Gary works on a small lot on the southeastern side of town, near the railroad tracks that carry corn and beans out of state. He is in many ways a quintessential Iowan: wry and pragmatic, with an almost palpable calm. He grew up on a family farm, the kind of mixed animal and grain farm that hardly exists anymore, and he learned mechanics while repairing farm machinery. 
 After a few maintenance-requiring road trips and some minor repairs, we've spent a fair amount of time chatting with Gary, and we've learned a lot about why most Iowans did not become conspicuously wealthy in the last 30 years. We've also gleaned clues about how our state will survive the economic downturn.
 Gary has a stable of loyal customers: value-conscious people, perhaps themselves not many generations removed from farms, who like nice cars. The recent business school grads buy the BMWs, the Mercedes lovers buy the Mercedes, and the new parents, like Rob and myself, buy the Volvos. 
 In Iowa, this is a niche market. ''I have friends who will not drive one of my cars because their neighbors will look down on them for being too flashy,'' Gary says. ''It's assessed that if you're driving a German car you paid too much for it. You have too much money and you're rubbing people's noses in it.''
 This attitude reflects what my husband and I have come to describe as the ''farm-based frugality'' of many people here. It's an unspoken belief that one shouldn't pay an unreasonable sum of money for anything that could conceivably be made, grown or fixed at home.
 This frugality is reflected in Gary's repair fees. ''Spend your money on some new tires,'' he once suggested when I took out my checkbook to pay for a tuneup.
 Gary gets his stock from a different kind of person: the kind who likes to buy an expensive new car every few years. These are people who love the look and smell and feel of new cars. Living in or near big cities like St. Louis, they may never have been coached in farm-based frugality. They have no interest in the Midwestern imperative once identified by Rob: ''Don't get carried away in any direction.'' 
 With the economic slowdown of the last six months, there are fewer sellers of the vehicles he deals in. Lightly used luxury cars have never been plentiful in Iowa, but now he has to look beyond St. Louis. ''I have to go further afield,'' he says. ''I used to try to stay within a 300-mile radius. Lately, I've been looking in Florida, Texas.'' 
 Gary's sales have also fallen 6 percent to 7 percent. But he's philosophical about the change. The repair side of the business has picked up. ''People are taking care of what they've got,'' he says. 
 When the stock market was soaring and people on the coasts made headlines for their start-ups, their vacation homes and their bloated portfolios, the growth in Iowa was modest. Some felt we missed an opportunity to expand into high tech or high finance. Now, the tables have turned, but the slowdown in Iowa is equally sedate. 
 I don't mean to play down our problems. The floods of last June closed businesses, ruined houses and left our university arts campus without a home. People are losing their jobs. State revenues have dropped. Local business is down. 
 But once again, the more drastic numbers lie elsewhere. The latest figures show Iowa's unemployment rate at 4.6 percent compared to a national rate of 8.1 percent. A study released last week shows that Iowa has one of the lowest home foreclosure rates in the nation. 
 To Gary, the recession has a familiar feeling: it is like winter. ''We have a kind of annual recession,'' he says. ''We're pretty comfortable in the Midwest with a change in the status quo because of the weather. Annuals teach you how to be resilient about what's going to happen. 
 ''You learn about business,'' he says, ''from your land and your weather. You watch the seasons happen and you learn how to make a steady life with all of the change happening around you.'' 
 Thanks to Gary, my family has made it through the winter with our new tires. Spring lies around the corner.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); GRAIN FARMING (76%); FAMILY FARMS (75%); TIRES (72%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (72%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



302 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; DISPATCHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Smoke on the Water

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
RESIDENTS of Red Hook, Brooklyn, who worry about car exhaust have long looked in consternation to the east, to the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, or, more recently, to the south, where an Ikea store opened last year amid fears about the traffic it would draw. But when Adam Armstrong of Pioneer Street thinks of exhaust, he thinks of the westward view from his backyard, toward the water.
 That is where, on certain days, Mr. Armstrong can see the smokestacks of the Queen Mary 2 and other cruise ships rising over the rooftops. When the ships are docked at Pier 12, the terminal at the foot of Pioneer Street, they are essentially idling, using their diesel engines to keep their electrical systems running. 
 What results, Mr. Armstrong said the other day, is a noxious smoke that wafts over the surrounding area. Environmental groups say that a single ship, docked for one day, emits as much exhaust as 10,000 cars, maybe more.
 Mr. Armstrong, a musician, is married to a nurse, and the couple have two young children. He said he had been writing letters protesting the fumes since around 2006, the year the terminal opened. ''I thought, well, wow, these ships are right at the end of their street essentially blowing their smoke all day long,'' he said.
 Most vexing, he added, is that a better alternative exists: San Francisco, Los Angeles and Seattle are among the West Coast ports that employ a process called cold ironing, in which docked vessels plug into what amounts to a giant extension cord from the shore. The system allows the ships to use land-based power and turn off their engines.
 No such technology exists at the Red Hook terminal, but to the relief of residents, that may soon change. 
 Representatives of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the piers, and the city's Economic Development Corporation, which leases Pier 12 for the cruise ship terminal, said that cold ironing is set to come to Brooklyn by 2011. That, they said, could make New York the first port on the East Coast to provide shore-based power for cruise ships.
 The money needed for the improvements -- estimated at $3.5 million by Steven Coleman, a Port Authority spokesman -- is already included in the authority's 2009 and 2010 budgets, officials said. And Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corporation, said the agencies were working with Carnival Cruise Lines, which agreed to retrofit its ships to connect to shore power. 
 There is one major obstacle, however -- the cost of electric power. Under the existing electric rate structure, over the course of a year, it is millions of dollars cheaper for the ships' operators to have their vessels idle in port than to pay for shore-based power.
 One solution is to raise money from some source, possibly the federal stimulus package. Another is to change the way electric rates are set, something that would require the help of Con Edison or the state's Public Service Commission.
 Last September, the city and the Port Authority lobbied the commission to institute a lower rate for shore power, aimed specifically at making cold ironing cheaper. The federal Environmental Protection Agency has supported the request.
 A few weeks ago, Community Board 6, which represents Red Hook, passed a resolution urging the commission to consider the rate adjustment. 
 The commission has not announced a decision, but the agencies involved have calculated the potential benefits. According to the Port Authority's numbers, based on 48 dockings each year, cold ironing would prevent 95 tons of nitrogen oxides, 6.5 tons of particulate matter (tiny particles suspended in a gas), 1,487 tons of carbon dioxide and 99 tons of sulfur dioxide from being released into the air.
 That represents only a fraction of the pollution in the New York area. But for Mr. Armstrong, the day when those substances are not drifting over his family's house cannot come soon enough.
 ''When you've literally got the amount that you're talking about right in your neighborhood, parked right at the end of your residential street,'' he said, ''that's something to be incredulous about.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CRUISES (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); UTILITY RATES (71%); FUNDRAISING (68%); CHILDREN (67%); BUDGETS (67%)

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



303 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE FEED; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Reaching For the Bottom Shelf

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
I CAN'T say for sure whether I've ever tried Popov vodka, but I seem to recall pouring it into a punch bowl in college. Or maybe it was Gordon's.
 Tom Smith, the spirits director at Union Square Wines in Manhattan, says he doesn't carry Popov in his store because he associates it with his days of waiting tables, when he used it to polish silverware.
 Even Diageo, the liquor conglomerate that owns the Popov brand, seems reluctant to own up to it. Popov, which can sell for less than $9 a 750-milliliter bottle, isn't mentioned on its Web site, and when asked about the brand, a company spokeswoman kept trying to steer the conversation toward pricier spirits. 
 But the economic malaise has prompted consumers to trade down for all kinds of products, whether cereal, cars, sweaters or lunch fare. The same is true for booze. All of a sudden, Popov doesn't taste so bad.
 It might seem logical that people would drink more in a recession. In fact, liquor sales in the United States are up slightly, about 1 percent in the year ended Jan. 25, compared with the year earlier, according to Information Resources, a market research firm.
 The more pronounced trend is that some consumers are switching to the cheap stuff. Over the same period, consumers bought $36 million worth of Popov, up 8 percent.
 Sales over all in the ''popular'' vodka category, costing $6 to $9 a bottle, increased 14 percent. 
 And it's not just vodka that has been ''popularized.'' The trade-down effect is even more pronounced in wine, merchants say.
 ''The lower-end stuff is definitely flying out the door,'' said Claire Defoe, a manager at the Sherry-Lehmann wine store in Manhattan. 
 ''People don't want to hear about that $700 bottle of wine,'' she said. For wine, ''$15 to $30 is the sweet spot right now.''
 The resurgence of low-priced wine and spirits shows quite a turnabout for an industry that has been the happy beneficiary of America's long and reckless infatuation with luxury goods. During the last decade, alcohol marketers came up with an astounding array of high-priced products.
 Information Resources now tracks six categories of vodka: value (under $6); popular ($6 to $9); premium ($9 to $15); super premium ($15 to $22); ultra premium ($22 to $40); and luxury (more than $40).
 Ivan Menezes, president of Diageo North America, says sales of his premium brands, like Smirnoff and Captain Morgan, remain strong. But he says sales of more expensive spirits, which grew by double digits in years past, have slowed markedly in recent months to single-digit growth.
 During that same period, budget brands, long in decline, have started growing again.
 ''The pace of premiumization has slowed,'' he said. ''Strong, trusted, high-value brands are what people are migrating to.''
 Of course, some boutique vineyards and craft distilleries create exceptional beverages, even if the price is sometimes hard to justify. But much of the high-end liquor bubble was fueled by sleek advertising and bottle design, and by the realization that many Americans assume that the priciest beverage must be the best.
 Nowhere was this more evident than in the vodka category. By government definition, vodka is supposed to be a neutral alcohol without distinctive character, aroma, taste or color, and some believe that the differences among vodkas are so subtle that only connoisseurs can distinguish them. 
 But a marketing genius and liquor baron named Sidney Frank decided in 1996 that with the right story line and marketing panache, Americans would buy steeply priced vodka. He came up with a refined name, Grey Goose, and a sleek bottle.
 Most important, Mr. Frank, now deceased, decided to charge $30 for a bottle of Grey Goose, nearly twice as much as the most popular imported vodka, Absolut. It was a phenomenal success, so much so that in 2004 Mr. Frank sold Grey Goose for $2 billion to Bacardi.
 And yet several impartial taste tests have found that the cost of a bottle of vodka doesn't necessarily translate into better taste.
 In 2004, Slate magazine crowned a Polish vodka, Chopin, as the best; it cost the same as Grey Goose, which it described as unremarkable. The next year, a panel at The New York Times determined that Smirnoff, at $13 a bottle, was better than its pricier rivals.
 Those taste tests did little to curb sales of ultra-premium vodkas. But the current recession is taking its toll. Sales of Grey Goose declined 3 percent in the last year, according to Information Resources, while a rival, Ketel One, was down nearly 7 percent. Sales of ultra-premium vodka were down 2 percent for the year. 
 At the Grove Liquor Store in Montclair, N.J., the manager Anthony Singh said bottles of Grey Goose, which sell for $36.99, were gathering dust. The big sellers, he said, are Majorska and Laird's, which cost even less than Popov. They sell for $9.49 and $7.99 a bottle, compared with $10.99 for Popov. 
 ''We ran out of Majorska last week,'' Mr. Singh said. ''It's selling like crazy.''
 Vodka snobs will sniff at the idea of switching to budget brands like Popov or Majorska. Maybe they are right. But given the state of economy, I would suggest at least trying a blind taste test.
 After all, if Popov wins, you'll save a bundle, even if you decide to hide the bottle in a brown-paper bag. And if you don't like it? I hear it's good for cleaning silverware. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Feed column last Sunday, about changes in buying patterns for alcoholic beverages, misstated the title of Tom Smith of Union Square Wines in Manhattan. He is the spirits director, not the beverage director.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sales of Popov vodka are up sharply, and one liquor store manager in New Jersey says he sold out of Majorska, $9.49 a bottle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); TRENDS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%); WEB SITES (55%)

COMPANY: DIAGEO PLC (57%)

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (57%); DGE (LSE) (57%); DEO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



304 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Romancing The Home

BYLINE: By SHEELAH KOLHATKAR. 
Sheelah Kolhatkar is a contributing editor for Conde Nast Portfolio.

 BODY:
''ABOUT four years ago, it seemed like everyone was buying houses like they were buying shoes or bags, you know,'' says Tony Fungrai, a 35-year-old film technician who works on ''Law and Order: Criminal Intent.'' Tony has a cascade of dreadlocks down his back and a torso covered in tattoos. He lights a cigarette. ''That's been one of my goals going back to college. I wanted to own my own house.'' 
 Tony now owns his own house: a four-story brownstone around the corner from a Golden Krust Caribbean Bakery, a pawn shop and the Hot Girls Boutique, in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn. But it comes at a price of constant drama and financial strain: ''I have to work 20 days a week to make my bills,'' he says. ''At the end of the week, I have $10 left.'' 
 The cliche of the real estate crisis is that Americans were reckless and irresponsible, piling into homes they couldn't afford with risky, no-money-down mortgages. But for Tony, home ownership was a romantic obsession, something he fantasized about and worked toward for years. The tremendous effort he put into getting his brownstone and staying there is emblematic of how powerful the idea of owning a home is, and why it drove so many people to the point of devastation. 
 Tony was born in Guyana, moved to Queens when he was 7 and Westchester at 16; he attended college in upstate New York. By 2004, after a couple of lucrative years doing production work for television commercials -- and after one lucky night in a casino -- he'd cobbled together enough for a down payment on something. Months of searching led him to the house in Bed-Stuy, close to the subway.
 ''The area looked really bad,'' he says. ''There was barbed wire; next to it was a bodega -- they threw out their refrigerator and freezer, and it became a place where crackheads went and smoked crack. When you looked at it, you were like, no way anyone is going to pay over $200,000. But inside, it was a very strong house.'' 
 His offer was accepted, although after the contract was signed, the seller found someone willing to pay more. They spent 18 months in court, and Tony finally won the house at the agreed price. Including closing costs the total was $785,000. He put down 10 percent. 
 One brisk winter day, Tony gives me a tour. The ground level used to be a tattoo parlor (long story -- his girlfriend was a tattoo artist, but they broke up and she went back to Brazil), and now is crammed with tools and rusting motorcycles. While he fixes it up, Tony is living in one corner behind some hanging carpets with two electric space heaters by the bed. His two enormous dogs, Tarzan and Killer, race around, flinging bones across the concrete floor.
 The three upstairs floors of the house are rented out, but Tony is trying to evict two of the tenants, who haven't paid rent in a year (he previously evicted another tenant for the same reason). The rents would help him with the $4,700 mortgage payment he has to make each month. As long as film and television production doesn't slow down and he keeps working the 75 or so hours a week he is right now, he can keep it together, but if he stops working, he'll go under. 
 To complicate matters, the house needed extensive renovations, and he's spent almost every second that he hasn't been at work over the last four years doing construction. So far, it's cost around $150,000, most of it borrowed against the house or put on credit cards. 
 Tony shows off what he's done: He's already dug out the basement and put in steel beams. He cleared the backyard of debris and refurbished the hallways and one of the apartments upstairs. The iron railing outside is freshly painted, and he hauled away the crack-fridge. 
 His hope is that one day the whole building will be finished and rented out to paying tenants, and the house will become self-sustaining. That day seems far off, though. The local rental market is softening and the real estate Web site Zillow.com estimates that Tony's brownstone is now worth $31,000 less than he originally paid for it. Many experts are predicting still greater declines to come in New York City housing prices.
 But Tony is determinedly optimistic and none of it -- the expenses, the renovations, the deadbeat tenants, the drug dealers on the stoop or the economic meltdown -- has dampened his enthusiasm. ''Absolutely, it's worth it,'' he says. ''I'd rather own my own house than rent. This is just a stepping stone.'' He goes on: ''It's not working now as it should be; it hasn't turned the corner yet. It will, though.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOPHIA MARTINECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); TATTOO PARLORS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BAKERIES (69%); COCAINE (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDEN KRUST CARIBBEAN BAKERY & GRILL INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GUYANA (57%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



305 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Common Sense in Lending

 BODY:
The mortgage crisis that has crippled the economy and put millions of Americans at risk of losing their homes will eventually repeat itself unless Congress makes decisive changes in how mortgage lending is regulated. That means outlawing the riskiest and most deceptive practices that were used to lure millions of people into loans that they could never hope to pay back. 
 It also means rewriting federal banking law, starting by repealing the rule that shields nationally chartered banks from state lending laws that would have precluded some the most predatory lending practices.
 Congress has recently been getting an earful on this point from Senate Banking Committee witnesses like Patricia McCoy, a law professor at the University of Connecticut, who focused on the pre-emption ruling issued by federal regulators in 2004. The worst of the subprime and nontraditional loans were issued in 2006 and 2007. 
 It has become fashionable to blame reckless borrowers for this crisis. But the unfolding evidence makes clear that this was a systemic problem, driven by Wall Street's insatiable appetite for mortgage-backed securities. The lure of quick money led to collusion all along the mortgage chain. Banks and mortgage companies paid brokers to steer borrowers into high-cost, high-risk loans. Appraisers joined in, inflating housing values so that borrowers could qualify for those loans.
 Deceptive practices became commonplace. Borrowers who were promised conventional fixed-rate mortgages sometimes found out only at the last minute that they had been given loans with escalating interest rates, exploding payments and other features that made them more vulnerable to default. Some of the loans were so multilayered and complicated that their true ruinous costs were easily hidden until it was too late. 
 As home prices soared out of reach, mortgage companies invented ever more elaborate and confusing mortgages that got people into loans that were never meant to be sustainable. The point was to keep wringing money out of the strapped borrowers by forcing them to refinance over and over again.
 An excellent example of how to strengthen protections for borrowers is a 2007 Minnesota law that forbids some of the exploitive mortgages that became common during the boom. For example, Minnesota bans negative amortization, an arrangement under which the loan balance actually increases over time. It also bans ''churning,'' a method of refinancing under which the new loans do not benefit borrowers. It forbids prepayment penalties on subprime mortgages and requires lenders to determine a borrower's ability to repay. 
 Most important, it forbids collusion between brokers and lenders, who have sometimes paid brokers to get borrowers into higher-priced loans. Brokers in Minnesota now have a fiduciary responsibility to the borrower, which means getting the most beneficial deal. 
 Under current federal law, Minnesota's farsighted legislation applies only to state-chartered banks. But given the high price the country has had to pay for exploitive lending, Congress should consider emulating Minnesota's law at the federal level. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); LOAN BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); BANKING LAW (76%); WITNESSES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



306 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: The Inflection Is Near?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Sometimes the satirical newspaper The Onion is so right on, I can't resist quoting from it. Consider this faux article from June 2005 about America's addiction to Chinese exports: 
 FENGHUA, China -- Chen Hsien, an employee of Fenghua Ningbo Plastic Works Ltd., a plastics factory that manufactures lightweight household items for Western markets, expressed his disbelief Monday over the ''sheer amount of [garbage] Americans will buy. Often, when we're assigned a new order for, say, 'salad shooters,' I will say to myself, 'There's no way that anyone will ever buy these.' ... One month later, we will receive an order for the same product, but three times the quantity. How can anyone have a need for such useless [garbage]? I hear that Americans can buy anything they want, and I believe it, judging from the things I've made for them,'' Chen said. ''And I also hear that, when they no longer want an item, they simply throw it away. So wasteful and contemptible.'' 
 Let's today step out of the normal boundaries of analysis of our economic crisis and ask a radical question: What if the crisis of 2008 represents something much more fundamental than a deep recession? What if it's telling us that the whole growth model we created over the last 50 years is simply unsustainable economically and ecologically and that 2008 was when we hit the wall -- when Mother Nature and the market both said: ''No more.''
 We have created a system for growth that depended on our building more and more stores to sell more and more stuff made in more and more factories in China, powered by more and more coal that would cause more and more climate change but earn China more and more dollars to buy more and more U.S. T-bills so America would have more and more money to build more and more stores and sell more and more stuff that would employ more and more Chinese ...
 We can't do this anymore. 
 ''We created a way of raising standards of living that we can't possibly pass on to our children,'' said Joe Romm, a physicist and climate expert who writes the indispensable blog climateprogress.org. We have been getting rich by depleting all our natural stocks -- water, hydrocarbons, forests, rivers, fish and arable land -- and not by generating renewable flows. 
 ''You can get this burst of wealth that we have created from this rapacious behavior,'' added Romm. ''But it has to collapse, unless adults stand up and say, 'This is a Ponzi scheme. We have not generated real wealth, and we are destroying a livable climate ...' Real wealth is something you can pass on in a way that others can enjoy.''
 Over a billion people today suffer from water scarcity; deforestation in the tropics destroys an area the size of Greece every year -- more than 25 million acres; more than half of the world's fisheries are over-fished or fished at their limit. 
 ''Just as a few lonely economists warned us we were living beyond our financial means and overdrawing our financial assets, scientists are warning us that we're living beyond our ecological means and overdrawing our natural assets,'' argues Glenn Prickett, senior vice president at Conservation International. But, he cautioned, as environmentalists have pointed out: ''Mother Nature doesn't do bailouts.'' 
 One of those who has been warning me of this for a long time is Paul Gilding, the Australian environmental business expert. He has a name for this moment -- when both Mother Nature and Father Greed have hit the wall at once -- ''The Great Disruption.'' 
 ''We are taking a system operating past its capacity and driving it faster and harder,'' he wrote me. ''No matter how wonderful the system is, the laws of physics and biology still apply.'' We must have growth, but we must grow in a different way. For starters, economies need to transition to the concept of net-zero, whereby buildings, cars, factories and homes are designed not only to generate as much energy as they use but to be infinitely recyclable in as many parts as possible. Let's grow by creating flows rather than plundering more stocks.
 Gilding says he's actually an optimist. So am I. People are already using this economic slowdown to retool and reorient economies. Germany, Britain, China and the U.S. have all used stimulus bills to make huge new investments in clean power. South Korea's new national paradigm for development is called: ''Low carbon, green growth.'' Who knew? People are realizing we need more than incremental changes -- and we're seeing the first stirrings of growth in smarter, more efficient, more responsible ways.
 In the meantime, says Gilding, take notes: ''When we look back, 2008 will be a momentous year in human history. Our children and grandchildren will ask us, 'What was it like? What were you doing when it started to fall apart? What did you think? What did you do?' '' Often in the middle of something momentous, we can't see its significance. But for me there is no doubt: 2008 will be the marker -- the year when 'The Great Disruption' began. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PLASTIC PRODUCTS MFG (72%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (66%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



307 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Expecting a Lot From City Hall, And Getting It

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
There are more street fairs in the square bordered by the Hudson River and the Bowery, from Canal Street to West 14th Street, than in any other place in the city. The area has the highest concentration of civic organizations in the five boroughs, and among the highest number of sidewalk cafes. Sixty percent of the buildings here have landmark status, according to Bob Gormley, district manager at the local community board.
 The neighborhoods within this square -- SoHo, Greenwich Village, the West Village and Little Italy -- are among the city's most visited and photographed, and their names are virtual synonyms for New York. 
 ''This is probably the best part of Manhattan to live in,'' Daryl Wein, 25, a filmmaker, said as he savored a burrito from the back of an empty U-Haul truck parked on Hudson Street, not far from his apartment. ''It's the prettiest and most relaxed, and it's cool. You have restaurants. You have the river and the jogging path that runs along it. You have everything.''
 But even with its picturesque blocks, hopping nightlife and relative affluence, the area has its challenges. Late-night noise outside its many bars is one of them. Prostitution is another, though the authorities are often quick to react to it, residents said.
 ''There are a lot of unsavory characters who walk up and down Greenwich Avenue, particularly early in the morning,'' said Naomi Shepherd, 32, as she pushed Annabelle, her daughter, in a stroller along Hudson Street one recent afternoon. ''But the Police Department had a presence on every corner last summer, and it deterred the activities.''
 One of the most complex matters facing the area is development. The largest and most controversial of the projects is the proposed expansion of St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan, which would involve the demolition of several buildings to make way for a new medical tower and luxury condominiums. 
 But the pace of new construction appears to have slowed with the economy. For example, a builder who had submitted plans for a hotel at the corner of Washington and Perry Streets withdrew them recently. And the number of applications for zoning changes has dropped by about a third in the past few months.
 Brad Hoylman, chairman of the community board here, said that city agencies were generally quick to fix problems and address concerns. He said one reason might be that most of the district was represented by the speaker of the City Council, Christine C. Quinn, thus benefiting from what he calls ''the halo effect.''
 ''It's the classic case of the squeaky wheel getting the grease,'' Mr. Hoylman said.
 And the population is zealous in expressing its needs. The community board gets an average of 25 to 50 calls a day from residents with questions and complaints, said Mr. Gormley, the district manager. Its committee meetings are well attended; reviews of liquor license applications ''always draw a good-sized and very active crowd,'' he said.
 The Greenwich Village Block Associations maintains a logon its Web site, noting every movie and commercial being shot in the neighborhood and how they affect life there. 
 Sprint Nextel, which filmed at a Bleecker Street restaurant last month, made a ''very generous contribution to the Grove Street Block Association,'' read one of the entries. But a movie starring Meryl Streep that shot scenes on Macdougal Street and other locations in May ''did not contribute to any community charities despite large presence in the Village,'' read another.
 Gerald Banu, 66, a retired engineer and the president of the Perry Street Block Association, put it this way: ''Around here, if things go wrong, people complain. And if two people with the same idea get together, you have a committee.''
 It was in that spirit that Mr. Banu rallied his neighbors last summer to fight the masses of bus-riding tourists who clogged their block on weekends, aiming to take pictures outside the brownstone featured on the show ''Sex and the City'' as home to Sarah Jessica Parker's character, Carrie Bradshaw. (Incidentally, Ms. Parker lives a few blocks to the west.)
 They talked to local leaders, who got managed to ban the buses from Perry Street. 
 Of course, that did not solve every problem. Residents say a playground across from Magnolia Bakery, one of Ms. Bradshaw's favorite haunts, is sometimes littered with the tourists' discarded cupcake boxes and wrappers.
 There is little residents feel they can do about that, other than ask the tourists to behave. 
 A sign affixed to the bakery's window says: ''Please respect our beautiful neighborhood. Dispose of all trash properly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SOME CONCERNS: Naomi Shepherd, 32, complained of ''unsavory characters'' but said the police were responsive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: They Like It Here: SoHo, Greenwich Village, West Village and Little Italy (Manhattan Community Board 2)(Source: Citywide Customer Survey)
MAPS: What New Yorkers Like and Don't Like About Their City: Manhattanites are happy about most things, but not the schools. Residents of Staten Island like the schools a little better. In northeast Queens, residents feel especially safe from rats as well as from crime. In the Bronx, the residents are unhappy about a lot of city services. All of this is from a survey of New Yorkers by the city last year. For a complete set of maps showing how city residents feel about various subjects, including fire protection and police-community relations, go to nytimes.com/nyregion.: How would you rate the quality of life in New York City over all?
Please rate public education in New York City.
Rate how safe you feel walking alone on a street in your neighborhood at night.
 Please rate rat control in your neighborhood.(A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); CONDOMINIUMS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



308 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; BOiTE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Black Diamonds on a Budget

BYLINE: By LEANNE SHEAR

 BODY:
THERE was once a dream that was Aspen, a vision of perfect powder that danced in more than a few New Yorkers' heads as the temperature dropped and the days grew shorter. Fewer have seen that dream become a reality this year as the economic winds -- not to mention the actual winds of a seemingly interminable winter -- have grounded more than a few corporate jets, literally and figuratively.
 ''This winter has been brutal,'' said Dana Bower, 28, a writer, director and producer with very long dark hair and a very short skirt. She was sipping a Snow Bunny cocktail at Aspen Social Club on West 47th Street on a recent Tuesday. 
 ''I've tried to stay in, cook dinner, not drink -- but come on, I'm still a New Yorker. Granted, no one, and I mean no one, should be blowing $400 on a bottle of Champagne right now unless it's your last day on earth, but the cocktails here are only like $10.'' She smiled at her companion, saying, ''I'm a cheap date for my unemployed ex-investment banker drinking buddy here.''
 She called the Aspen Social Club her oasis. And while being inside is not quite like schussing down Ajax Mountain on a bluebird day, the word is not too far off. The polished antlers mounted over the main bar, and the club's focal point -- an aspen tree reflected by two-way mirrors, the end-result being an ''infinity forest'' -- evoke that high-end-yet-cozy log cabin feel predominant in certain high-end ski destinations. 
 Dale Sudakoff, 32, a stylist and wardrobe consultant who was nibbling Colorado Lamb Lollipops and sipping Champagne with her friends, took note of the decor, nodding approvingly at the ceiling above her head, where bunches of antlers were clustered. Backlighted in soft white light, they cast a dreamy glow on the back bar and illuminated the anachronistic white chairs around tables there.
 ''Very retro-modern,'' she noted.
 Aspen Social Club was designed by the 80's club uber-guru Steve Lewis in collaboration with Greg Brier, the owner, but its vibe is still curiously unpretentious from two such established New York velvet-rope pioneers. 
 Ms. Sudakoff said that was the idea all along: ''This is the kind of place where you could scarf down mac and cheese wearing a Stella McCartney dress and Christian Louboutin pumps -- maybe before going to see 'The Lion King' in Times Square with your cousin from Kentucky.''
 As if on cue, a techno-sounding dance song morphed into ''Ring of Fire'' by Johnny Cash, the familiar beat reverberating between the wood-planked floor and ceiling, causing more than a few of the club's lolling patrons to sit up and start tapping their feet. One man wearing a perfectly pressed dark suit and light blue Hermes tie took it upon himself to whistle along loudly with the song's signature trumpet call.
 Andriena Bonura, yet another lovely 30-something, who was watching him from the next table, said, ''Who doesn't need a little more Aspen in their life, especially these days?''
 The Aspen Social Club manager, Sal Lapisa, then stepped in and led her over to the hostess stand, where he pulled back a curtain and directed her attention to its base.
 Hunter S. Thompson's image reflected up from the bottom of the stand, where it was emblazoned behind a mirror. As Ms. Bonura gazed at the ghost of Gonzo, Mr. Lapisa said with a wink, ''We only show this to special customers.'' 
 ASPEN SOCIAL CLUB
 157 West 47th Street, (212) 221-7200
 Getting In Times Square tourists beware! According to the owner, Greg Brier, the ''discerning customer will pick up what's happening inside the space.''
 Signature Drink The Biff, a shot of Baileys Irish Cream topped off with Chivas Regal -- the favorite drink of none other than Hunter S. Thompson himself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ECHOES FROM ASPEN: Relaxing after a tough day on Manhattan's steep financial slopes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



309 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Some Things Don't Change in Grover's Corners

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
''WHEREVER you come near the human race, there's layers and layers of nonsense,'' says the Stage Manager in Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town.'' Those words were first heard by New York audiences in February 1938, as America continued to reel from hard times. The Times's front page told of 100,000 auto workers protesting layoffs in Detroit and of a Republican official attacking the New Deal as ''fascist.'' Though no one was buying cars, F.D.R. had the gall to endorse a mammoth transcontinental highway construction program to put men back to work.
 In the 71 years since, Wilder's drama has become a permanent yet often dormant fixture in our culture, like the breakfront that's been in the dining room so long you stopped noticing its contents. Requiring no scenery and many players, ''Our Town'' is the perennial go-to ''High School Play.'' But according to A. Tappan Wilder, the playwright's nephew and literary executor, professional productions have doubled since 2005, including two separate hit revivals newly opened in Chicagoand New York. 
 You can see why there's a spike in the ''Our Town'' market. Once again its astringent distillation of life and death in the fictional early-20th-century town of Grover's Corners, N.H., is desperately needed to help strip away ''layers and layers of nonsense'' so Americans can remember who we are -- and how lost we got in the boom before our bust. 
 At the director David Cromer's shattering rendition of the play now running in Greenwich Village, it's impossible not to be moved by that Act III passage where the Stage Manager comes upon the graves of Civil War veterans in the town cemetery. ''New Hampshire boys,'' he says, ''had a notion that the Union ought to be kept together, though they'd never seen more than 50 miles of it themselves. All they knew was the name, friends -- the United States of America. The United States of America. And they went and died about it.''
 Wilder was not a nostalgic, sentimental or jingoistic writer. Grover's Corners isn't populated by saints but by regular people, some frivolous and some ignorant and at least one suicidal. But when the narrator evokes a common national good and purpose -- unfurling our country's full name in the rhetorical manner also favored by our current president -- you feel the graveyard's chill wind. It's a trace memory of an American faith we soiled and buried with all our own nonsense in the first decade of our new century. 
 Retrieving that faith now requires extraordinary patience and optimism. We're still working our way through the aftershocks of the orgy of irresponsibility and greed that brought America to this nadir. In his recent letter to shareholders, a chastened Warren Buffett likened our financial institutions' recklessness to venereal disease. Even the innocent were infected because ''it's not just whom you sleep with'' but also ''whom they'' -- unnamed huge financial institutions -- ''are sleeping with,'' he wrote. Indeed, our government is in the morally untenable position of rewarding the most promiscuous carrier of them all, A.I.G., with as much as $180 billion in taxpayers' cash transfusions (so far) precisely because it can't be disentangled from all the careless (and unidentified) trading partners sharing its infection. 
 Buffett's sermon coincided with the public soul searching of another national sage, Elie Wiesel, who joined a Portfolio magazine panel discussion on Bernie Madoff. Some $37 million of Wiesel's charitable foundation and personal wealth vanished in Madoff's Ponzi scheme. ''We gave him everything,'' Wiesel told the audience. ''We thought he was God.''
 How did reality become so warped that Wiesel, let alone thousands of lesser mortals, could mistake Madoff for God? It was this crook's ability to pass for a deity that allowed his fraud to escape scrutiny not just from his victims but from the S.E.C. and the ''money managers'' who pimped his wares. This aura of godliness also shielded the ''legal'' Madoffs at firms like Citibank and Goldman Sachs. They spread V.D. with esoteric derivatives, then hedged their wild gambles with A.I.G. ''insurance'' (credit-default swaps) that proved to be the most porous prophylactics in the history of finance. 
 The simplest explanation for why America's reality got so distorted is the economic imbalance that Barack Obama now wants to remedy with policies that his critics deride as ''socialist'' (''fascist'' can't be far behind): the obscene widening of income inequality between the very rich and everyone else since the 1970s. ''There is something wrong when we allow the playing field to be tilted so far in the favor of so few,'' the president said in his budget message. He was calling for fundamental fairness, not class warfare. America hasn't seen such gaping inequality since the Gilded Age and 1920s boom that preceded the Great Depression.
 This inequity was compounded by Bush tax policy and by lawmakers and regulators of both parties who enabled and protected the banking scam artists who fled with their bonuses and left us holding the toxic remains. The fantasy of easy money at the top of the economic pyramid trickled down to the masses, who piled up debt by leveraging their homes much as their '20s predecessors once floated stock purchases ''on margin.'' Our culture, meanwhile, painted halos over celebrity C.E.O.'s, turning the fundamentalist gospel of the market into a national religion that further accelerated the country's wholesale flight from reality.
 The once-lionized lifestyles of the rich and infamous were appallingly tacky. John Thain's parchment trash can was merely the tip of the kitschy iceberg. The level of taste flaunted by America's upper caste at the bubble's height had less in common with the Medicis than, say, Uday and Qusay Hussein. 
 The cultural crash should have been a tip-off to the economic crash to come. Paul Greenwood and Stephen Walsh, money managers whose alleged $667 million fraud looted the endowments at the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon, were fond of collecting Steiff stuffed animals, including an $80,000 teddy bear. Sir Robert Allen Stanford -- a Texan who purchased that ''Sir'' by greasing palms in Antigua -- poured some of his alleged $8 billion in ill-gotten gains into a castle, complete with moat, man-made cliff and pub. He later demolished it, no doubt out of boredom.
 In a class apart is the genteel Walter Noel, whose family-staffed Fairfield Greenwich Group fed some $7 billion into Madoff's maw. The Noels promoted themselves, their business and their countless homes by posing for Town & Country. Their firm took in at least $500 million in fees (since 2003 alone) for delivering sheep to the Madoff slaughterhouse. In exchange, Fairfield Greenwich claimed to apply ''due diligence'' to every portfolio transaction -- though we now know Madoff didn't actually trade a single stock or bond listed in his statements for at least the past 13 years. 
 But in the bubble culture, money ennobled absolutely. A former Wall Street executive vouched for his pal Noel to The Times: ''He's a terribly good person, almost in the sense of Jimmy Stewart in 'It's a Wonderful Life' combined with an overtone of Gregory Peck in 'To Kill a Mockingbird.' '' 
 Last week Jon Stewart whipped up a well-earned frenzy with an eight-minute ''Daily Show'' takedown of the stars of CNBC, the business network that venerated our financial gods, plugged their stocks and hyped the bubble's reckless delusions. (Just as it had in the dot-com bubble.) Stewart's horrifying clip reel featured Jim Cramer reassuring viewers that Bear Stearns was ''not in trouble'' just six days before its March 2008 collapse; Charlie Gasparino lip-syncing A.I.G.'s claim that its subprime losses were ''very manageable'' in December 2007; and Larry Kudlow declaring last April that ''the worst of this subprime business is over.'' The coup de grace was a CNBC interviewer fawning over the lordly Robert Allen Stanford. Stewart spoke for many when he concluded, ''Between the two of them I can't decide which one of those guys I'd rather see in jail.'' 
 Led by Cramer and Kudlow, the CNBC carnival barkers are now, without any irony whatsoever, assailing the president as a radical saboteur of capitalism. It's particularly rich to hear Cramer tar Obama (or anyone else) for ''wealth destruction'' when he followed up his bum steer to viewers on Bear Stearns with oleaginous on-camera salesmanship for Wachovia and its brilliant chief executive, a Cramer friend and former boss, just two weeks before it, too, collapsed. What should really terrify the White House is that Cramer last month gave a big thumbs-up to Timothy Geithner's bank-rescue plan. 
 In one way, though, the remaining vestiges of the past decade's excesses, whether they live on in the shouted sophistry of CNBC or in the ashes of Stanford's castle, are useful. Seen in the cold light of our long hangover, they remind us that it was the America of the bubble that was aberrant and perverse, creating a new normal that wasn't normal at all. 
 The true American faith endures in ''Our Town.'' The key word in its title is the collective ''our,'' just as ''united'' is the resonant note hit by the new president when saying the full name of the country. The notion that Americans must all rise and fall together is the ideal we still yearn to reclaim, and that a majority voted for in November. But how we get there from this economic graveyard is a challenge rapidly rivaling the one that faced Wilder's audience in that dark late winter of 1938.
 The public editor's column will return next week. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (87%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); THEATER (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); CEMETERIES (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (55%); VETERANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



310 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Why the Poor Stay Poor

BYLINE: By RICHARD THOMPSON FORD. 
Richard Thompson Ford is a professor of law at Stanford University. His book ''The Race Card: How Bluffing About Bias Makes Race Relations Worse'' is being published in paperback this month.

 BODY:
MORE THAN JUST RACE
 Being Black and Poor in the Inner City
 By William Julius Wilson
 190 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $24.95
 When the nation's first black president took the oath of office, surrounded by the grandeur of the National Mall, it was easy to forget that one of the country's most isolated and impoverished black ghettos was a few short blocks away. The poverty, violence and hopelessness in America's inner cities have become increasingly dire in the four decades since the height of the civil rights movement. But as Barack Obama's victory suggests, racial prejudice is less severe today than ever before. Why haven't the problems of the ghettos improved along with race relations generally? 
 Conservatives have a ready answer. Racism is not the problem; instead, a pervasive culture of instant gratification, violence and loose morals -- think gangsta rap -- keeps poor blacks from enjoying the American dream, not white racists. Liberals have a more charitable, but unfortunately more obscure, rejoinder. Poor blacks today suffer from covert racism, unconscious racism, institutional racism, environmental racism and a host of other theoretically abstruse ''racisms'' that don't involve cross-burning white supremacists or crude Archie Bunker-style bigots -- and may not even involve racial animus or discrimination. Each side has little patience for the claims of the other. Conservatives reject the idea of structural and institutional racism as an intellectual's way of playing the race card. Liberals attack any emphasis on the dysfunctional culture of the poor as ''blaming the victim.'' 
 In ''More Than Just Race,'' the Harvard sociologist William Julius Wilson recaps his own important research over the past 20 years as well as some of the best urban sociology of his peers to make a convincing case that both institutional and systemic impediments and cultural deficiencies keep poor blacks from escaping poverty and the ghetto. 
 The systemic impediments include both the legacy of racism and dramatic economic changes that have fallen with disproportionate severity on poor blacks. State-enforced racial discrimination created the ghetto: in the early 20th century local governments separated the races into segregated neighborhoods by force of law, and later, whites used private agreements and violent intimidation to keep blacks out of white neighborhoods. Worst, and most surprising of all, the federal government played a major role in encouraging the racism of private actors and state governments. Until the 1960s, federal housing agencies engaged in racial redlining, refusing to guarantee mortgages in inner-city neighborhoods; private lenders quickly followed suit. 
 Meanwhile, economic and demographic changes that had nothing to do with race aggravated the problems of the ghetto. Encouraged by recently built highways and inexpensive real estate, middle-class residents and industry left the inner city to relocate to roomier and less costly digs in the suburbs during the '60s and '70s. Those jobs that remained available to urban blacks further dwindled as companies replaced well-paid and unionized American workers with automation and cheaper overseas labor. The new economy produced most of its jobs at the two poles of the wage scale: high-paying jobs for the well educated and acculturated (lawyers, bankers, management consultants) and low-paying jobs for those with little education or skills (fast food, telemarketing, janitorial services). 
 And, as Wilson argued in an earlier book, ''The Declining Significance of Race,''the success of the civil rights movement inadvertently made things worse for the most disadvantaged. After federal law prohibited housing discrimination, successful blacks began to leave the inner city for many of the same reasons whites did: in search of better schools, less crime, lower taxes and a leafier landscape. This left the least well off behind in ghettos that were both more socially isolated and more economically depressed than ever. 
 Today many ghetto residents have almost no contact with mainstream American society or the normal job market. As a result, they have developed distinctive and often dysfunctional social norms. The work ethic, investment in the future and deferred gratification make no sense in an environment in which legitimate employment at a living wage is impossible to find and crime is an everyday hazard (and temptation). Men, unable to support their families, abandon them; women become resigned to single motherhood; children suffer from broken homes and from the bad examples set by both peers and adults. And this dysfunctional behavior reinforces negative racial stereotypes, making it all the harder for poor blacks to find decent jobs. 
 Wilson criticizes the liberals and black power activists who attacked as racist Daniel Patrick Moynihan's prescient report ''The Negro Family: The Case for National Action'' (1965). According to Wilson, the vitriolic condemnation of the Moynihan Report effectively closed off a serious academic focus on the culture of poverty for decades, robbing policy makers of a complete and nuanced account of the causes of ghetto poverty. But he argues that the legacy of racism and changes in the economy matter more than the dysfunctional culture of the ghetto. And he rejects the argument that the black poor are responsible for their predicament, insisting that an aggressive public policy response is necessary to break the cycle of poverty. 
 ''More Than Just Race'' is somewhat ponderous and academic in style; too often the book details an important and fascinating question only to end inconclusively, with a call for ''further research.'' But this is more than made up for by its considerable substantive virtues: it is straightforward, accessible and sensible, free of the ideological cant and posturing that often mar even serious academic studies of racial issues. 
 At heart, Wilson is a Great Society liberal, so it's easy to understand why conservatives might resist his analysis. But his suggestion that racism is less to blame for black poverty than are race-neutral changes in the labor market and his attempt to rehabilitate the study of the culture of poverty have made him a controversial figure in liberal academic and civil rights circles. As Wilson notes, some on the left reject any cultural explanation of black poverty -- even one as sympathetic as that in the Moynihan Report or Wilson's own -- as blaming the victim. And the accusation of racism turns heads and grabs headlines, whereas Wilson's complex and multifaceted investigation requires a book-length exposition. 
 Moreover, racism, unlike a complicated web of economic, demographic and cultural forces, triggers a legal response: instead of persuading recalcitrant legislators and voters to support policy reform, liberals can simply insist that the black poor, as victims of race discrimination, have a right to redress that courts must enforce, regardless of popular opposition. But the law's arm is not long enough to reach bigotry that occurred in the past, nor can it get a grip on the economic and demographic changes that have hollowed out America's inner cities. The urban poor need remedies that judges cannot order: public and private investment to create jobs that pay a living wage, training to help them learn new skills and understand the job market, and most of all a chance to move into racially and economically integrated neighborhoods where there are better opportunities and healthier cultural norms. Wilson's levelheaded, thorough and unemotional analysis should help such badly needed policies prevail in the court of public opinion. 
 Wilson says the legacy of racism and changes in the economy matter more than the culture of the ghetto.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); SUBURBS (67%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (60%); RAP MUSIC (53%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: More Than Just Race (Book); More Than Just Race (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



311 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: In Shifting Era Of Admissions, Colleges Sweat

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
As colleges weigh this year's round of applications, high school seniors are not the only anxious ones.
 Just as nervously, colleges -- facing a financial landscape they have never seen before -- are trying to figure out how many students to accept, and how many students will accept them.
 Typically, they rely on statistical models to predict which students will take them up on their offers to attend. But this year, with the economy turning parents and students into bargain hunters, demographics changing and unexpected jolts in the price of gas and the number of applications, they have little faith on those models.
 ''Trying to hit those numbers is like trying to hit a hot tub when you're skydiving from 30,000 feet,'' said Jennifer Delahunty, dean of admissions and financial aid at Kenyon College in Ohio. ''I'm going to go to church every day in April.'' 
 In response, colleges are trying new methods to gauge which applicants are serious about attending: Wake Forest, in North Carolina, is using Webcam interviews, while other colleges say they are scrutinizing essays more closely. And they are making more vigorous appeals to try to convince parents and students who will be offered admission in April that theirs is the campus to choose. But mostly, they are guessing: Will pinched finances keep students closer to home? Will those who applied in December be feeling too poor to accept in May -- or show up in August?
 Colleges have been in the catbird seat for the past decade or so. As the number of high school students swelled, applications rose, allowing colleges to be more selective. And families benefiting from a flush stock market seemed willing to pay whatever tuition colleges charged.
 But all that has changed. For students, the uncertainty could be good news: colleges will admit more students, offer more generous financial aid,and, in some cases, send acceptance letters a few weeks earlier. Then again, it could prolong the agony: some institutions say they will rely more on their waiting lists. But there is no question, admissions officers say, that this year is more of a students' market.
 ''It's like the dot-com bubble burst for higher ed,'' said Barbara Fritze, vice president of enrollment at Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania. ''We've been in this growth mode for a period of time. Now there's a real leveling going on.''
 Colleges consider an amalgam of factors, comparing them to past trends, to predict whether a student will attend, including, for example, what high school he went to; the strength of his grades, scores and recommendations; how much financial aid he has been offered; and whether he plays the cello or wants to study ethnobotany or economics. (If he is a she, the equation looks different still.)
 They consider how many phone calls, Web hits, campus visits and applications they have received. They look at how many students put down a deposit in May, then assume a bit of ''summer melt.''
 If it sounds complicated, it also works. Kenyon, for example, has hit the magic hot tub each of the last five years.
 But with high gasoline prices last summer, many campuses reported fewer visits, throwing off one of the better indicators of which applicants are serious. 
 Applications, too, have been unpredictable. Some public institutions have seen increases of 30 percent. But with almost every state cutting budgets, it is unclear how many applicants those institutions will accept -- California and Arizona, for example, are capping enrollment. And private colleges are waiting to see how much public institutions raise tuition; most do not set rates until state budgets are firm.
 Meanwhile, applications are down at many private institutions. Colleges and high school guidance counselors say more students are applying to so-called financial safety schools, where they are confident of getting scholarships, even if it means attending a less selective institution.
 Officials say parents are reluctant to commit to four years of an expensive private school, worried that their companies might be restructuring. At Kenyon, one mother, after e-mailing to say that the family could not afford the college's early decision offer, e-mailed two hours later to say they were reconsidering, then e-mailed again two hours after that to say that her son would attend, after all. 
 ''It's a consumer confidence issue,'' said Steven Syverson, vice president for enrollment at Lawrence University in Wisconsin. ''Families are feeling like they can't afford it even if they're in the same financial position they were three months ago.''
 The Internet has thrown off another marker: applicants used to have to call or write for a catalog, giving the college an early signal of their interest. Now, many campuses say 25 percent to 30 percent are ''stealth applicants'' -- the first the college hears of them is when they apply.
 Some enrollment officials theorize that applications are down because cost-conscious applicants have made their choices more carefully. Then there is the glass-is-half-empty view, more common at private institutions where applications are up: students set their hearts on where to apply last summer, before the big crash, but will be choosing less expensive schools this spring, as economic indicators plummet.
 Institutions had been trying to cut back on the number of students they accept early, believing they would end up with a more economically diverse freshman class; those who are admitted early forfeit the right to shop around for financial aid offers, so are frequently wealthier. But this year, many said they had accepted more early decision applicants, trying to lock in as many students as they could in December.
 Still, that may not be a guarantee. Colleges say more and more early decision applicants are circling back to bargain for better financial aid packages, or asking to be released from their agreements so they can consider more generous offers.
 So as public institutions say they will accept fewer students, many private schools say they will accept more. The 13 members of the Associated Colleges of the Midwest, which includes Carleton, Macalester, Grinnell and Colorado Colleges, plan to accept 10 percent or 11 percent more applicants, said the group's president, Christopher Welna, to make up for about a 10 percent decline in applications. Hamilton and Gettysburg, among other campuses, also plan to accept a slightly bigger proportion of applicants. And Marquette University, in Milwaukee, said it would accept up to 600 more students to its class of 1,900, even though applications are up 17 percent. 
 Campuses, meanwhile, are trying to determine -- and encourage -- applicants' intentions. Kenyon will write to the parents of accepted students, to reassure them that financial aid will not dry up over the coming years.
 And at Gettysburg, Ms. Fritze plans to send out acceptance offers a bit earlier, hoping to generate loyalty.
 Barmak Nassirian, the associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, says the first real indication of who is coming could be in May, when students put down their deposits.
 ''But even that,'' Mr. Nassirian said, ''may be an overestimation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beverly Morse, left, Darryl Uy and Jennifer Delahunty, admissions officials for Kenyon College. The usual statistical models on admissions may not apply this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG SAILOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); FAMILY (76%); TUITION FEES (73%); BOTANY (72%); STATISTICAL METHOD (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



312 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: TAKING SHAPE; Generation OMG

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
IN 1951, Time magazine set out to paint a portrait of the nation's youth, those born into the Great Depression. It doomed them as the Silent Generation, and a generally drab lot: cautious and resigned, uninterested in striking out in new directions or shaping the great issues of the day -- the outwardly efficient types whose inner agonies the novel ''Revolutionary Road'' would dissect a decade later.
''Youth's ambitions have shrunk,'' the magazine declared. ''Few youngsters today want to mine diamonds in South Africa, ranch in Paraguay, climb Mount Everest, find a cure for cancer, sail around the world or build an industrial empire. Some would like to own a small, independent business, but most want a good job with a big firm, and with it, a kind of suburban idyll.'' The young soldier ''lacks flame,'' students were ''docile notetakers.'' And the young writer's flair ''sometimes turns out to be nothing more than a byproduct of his neuroses.'' (This even before Philip Roth, born 1933, had published a novel.) 
 ''The best thing that can be said for American youth, in or out of uniform, is that it has learned that it must try to make the best of a bad and difficult job, whether that job is life, war, or both,'' Time concluded. ''The generation which has been called the oldest young generation in the world has achieved a certain maturity.''
 Today we are in a recession the depth and duration of which are unknown; Friday's job loss figures were just the latest suggestion that it could well be prolonged and profound rather than shorter and shallower. 
 So what of the youth shaped by what some are already calling the Great Recession? Will a publication looking back from 2030 damn them with such faint praise? Will they marry younger, be satisfied with stable but less exciting jobs? Will their children mock them for reusing tea bags and counting pennies as if this paycheck were the last? At the very least, they will reckon with tremendous instability, just as their Depression forebears did.
 ''The '30s challenged the whole idea of the American dream, the idea of open economic possibilities,'' said Morris Dickstein, an English professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, whose cultural history of the Depression will be published in September. ''The version you get of that today is the loss of confidence on the part of both parent and children that life in the next generation will inevitably be better.''
 How today's young will be affected 10, 20 or 40 years on will depend on many things -- the children of the Depression were shaped as much by the war that followed. The recession generation will include those born into it, at the youngest end, and those emerging out of college and high school into a jobless marketplace, at the oldest. If history is any guide, what will matter most is where they are on the continuum.
 ''There is no simple cause-and-effect relationship in how economic adversity pushed a generation into any one kind of behavior,'' said Neil Howe, who with his longtime co-author, William Strauss, is credited with naming today's 20-somethings the millennials. ''The impact depends on the context and the mood of the time and how children understand the spirit of the times.''
 In an afterword for the 25th anniversary edition of his 1974 book, ''Children of the Great Depression,'' Glen H. Elder Jr., a sociologist at the University of North Carolina, noted differences even between two cohorts of children born relatively close together: one in Oakland, Calif., in the early 1920s (comparable to today's 9-year-olds) and those in nearby Berkeley at the other end of that decade (today's toddlers).
 In long-term studies, the younger group suffered the bigger psychic scars. For them, the worst disruption of the Depression coincided with the critical years of development when they most needed their parents. With incomes dropping, parents fought more and drank more, leaving children bewildered and often alone. Years later, the group looked back on their childhood as a period of unpredictability, and their high school years as a time they lacked direction or a sense of confidence. As one small-business man put it, ''my entire adolescence was a period of painful and frustrating disorientation.''
 The older children were better able to understand the hardships, and to get outside the household to help the family earn. They went off to World War II and benefited from the structure of the military, then returned to the booming economy and the G. I. Bill. Ultimately, Professor Elder said in an interview, ''they came out with an ability to know how to survive and make do and solve problems.''
 Today, the most immediately affected may be the oldest members of Generation Recession -- those in high school and college. 
 Research shows that the wages of those graduating into the recession of the 1980s were held back for more than a decade. And weak stock markets tend to make the young more risk averse about investing into the next decade.
 Those who study these young adults predict that they are about to get closer to their parents, at least physically, as more move home to save money. And their higher-education experience may be more a patchwork as they move between two- and four-year colleges as a way to save money getting degrees.
 Surveys have shown young people becoming more civic-minded in the last four years, and those who study them suggest this will increase, if only because the jobs will be in creating the public institutions and infrastructure of a new economic order. 
 And with the assumptions of the past decade now popped, the older among the recession youth might feel bolder striking out in more creative directions.
 Typically, applications to medical and law schools go up in a downturn, as young people look for safe haven. Applications to the Peace Corps and Teach for America, meanwhile, are up, as are those to some divinity schools and public policy programs.
 Professor Dickstein notes that the 1930s, too, were freeing for a particular kind of young adult. There was no art market to speak of, so artists felt less constrained by commercial expectations. The thinkers who would go on to be the public intellectuals of their day, people like Irving Howe and Alfred Kazin, did not seek the traditional path of a doctorate because they knew there were no academic jobs (though in some cases, this was as much because they were Jewish as because of the economy).
 Robbie Blinkoff, an anthropologist who runs a marketing consulting firm in Baltimore, hears both the anxiety and the potential in a class he teaches at Goucher College. One senior said he was applying to be a teacher -- a profession he had never considered when there were so many more lucrative lines of work. The economic contraction, he told Mr. Blinkoff, ''can give people more room to be creative.''
 Neil Howe, who with Mr. Strauss considered how different cohorts react to economic setbacks in their book ''Generations,'' said history offered two models: the Depression, and the 1970s. Children born in the '30s were raised in a cocoon. ''The whole message was, we're going to protect you,'' Mr. Howe said. ''We're going to make these sacrifices for you and create a better world for you.'' 
 The lesson, he said, ''was to trust the system, keep your nose clean, study hard, be a technocrat.'' That created the conformist, risk-averse generation that Time described. In job interviews, the first thing Depression babies asked potential employers about was the pension plan. As a generation, he said, they produced more than a dozen White House chiefs of staff, but not a single president.
 Children in the stagflated 1970s, meanwhile, grew up in the too-much-information age of Judy Blume. As Mr. Howe quotes one: ''Our parents gave us answers to questions we never asked.'' The system that produced Watergate had failed everyone, the lesson was to be a free agent, to take risks. Even today, Mr. Howe said, lottery officials report that those Gen Xers are their biggest customers.
 But when it comes to raising their children, the pendulum has swung. Today's youngest children -- the recession babies -- are being raised in the same kind of protective bubble as the Depression babies. (When Mr. Howe's Web site did a contest to name this next generation a few years ago, the winner was ''the homelanders,'' as in security). They stroll in sidewalk versions of sport utility vehicles, learn to swim in U.V. protective full-body suits.
 So while today's high school and college students will be the ones creating the new public agencies and Internet infrastructures, Mr. Howe predicts, those who follow ''will come of age wanting to participate in a system they trust and take for granted'' -- the next Silent Generation.
 Regardless of their age, members of the recession generation will most likely be shaped by a return to Things That Matter, a re-definition of values.
 The Depression saw a return to traditional values that had broken down in the go-go 20s, said Robert S. McElvaine, a professor at Millsaps College who has written several histories of the period. The difference now, Professor McElvaine said, is that the buy-it-on-credit, how-many-colors-can-I-get-it-in consumer culture runs far deeper, including in the young.
 ''Our definition of cutting back is not nearly what it was for people in the '30s,'' he said. ''Younger people have been targeted at least since the baby-boom generation was young in the 1950s to get them into the whole consumption-oriented way of life. It may take a little longer because we're so infinitely removed from those waste not, want not values -- we've never really practiced them.''
 But let's not doom anyone quite yet. In the studies of the Berkeley and Oakland Depression youths, Professor Elder notes that by middle age, the groups looked more similar. Both, as stereotypes have it, did marry earlier, value family life, pick jobs for security more than potential for greater reward. The less successful among them felt a lack of personal meaning. But as a whole, they turned out remarkably resilient.
 As the director of the Berkeley study wrote, looking back in the '70s, ''We have learned that no one becomes mature without living through the pains and confusions of maturing experiences.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THEN AND NOW: The attitudes of today's youth are as likely to be shaped by the recession as yesterday's were by the Great Depression.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEWIS W. HINE/GEORGE EASTMAN HOUSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM HUNGER/REUTERS)(pg. WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDUARDO RECIFE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); MOUNTAINS (70%); HISTORY (68%); DISMISSALS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (72%); MOUNT EVEREST (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PARAGUAY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



313 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; MARKETS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Alsatian Sauerkraut, Anyone?

BYLINE: By KELLY FEENEY

 BODY:
LATER this month, Fairway, the chain of markets that began as a fruit and vegetable store on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in the early 1930s, is set to open a sprawling 52,000-square-foot store in Paramus stocked with a mix of specialty, organic and conventional groceries -- everything from whitefish salad to Alsatian sauerkraut.
 Nor is Fairway the only upscale grocer to cross the Hudson; Eden Gourmet, an offshoot of the Garden of Eden markets in New York City, opened an elegant food store in South Orange in May. Both join an abundance of home-grown shops catering to those who want to cook, and eat, well. 
 Following is a sampling of specialty food stores; most are new, but one, Sickles Market in Little Silver, has been around for a century and continues to adapt to customers' tastes. 
 Fairway, Paramus
 The new location, in the Fashion Center on Route 17, will have hand-rolled bagels made in the bakery; fresh mozzarella at the cheese counter; and prime steaks cut at the meat counter, which will also have a kosher butcher and rabbi on-site. Fairway's signature smoked salmon, piled-high produce and dozens of types of olives, vinegars and coffees from around the world will be available, too, along with a machine that pops out fresh rice cakes. 
 Howie Glickberg, one of the owners of Fairway, which has additional locations in Harlem, Brooklyn and Long Island, also promises that prices will be tempting. 
 ''We've priced everything at or below anything out here,'' Mr. Glickberg said on a recent day as he stood near a large skylight in the deli area of the Paramus store while construction crews worked close by. 
 Fairway, Fashion Center at Route 17 North and Ridgewood Avenue, Paramus; fairwaymarket.com. 
 Eden Gourmet, South Orange
 This sophisticated, three-story, 35,000-square-foot store, resembling a fine European market, stocks more than 10,000 specialty items, like prosciutto di San Daniele, truffles and fleur de sel as well as pristine, artfully arranged produce. 
 There are numerous departments in this elegant store: a patisserie with perfect-looking petits fours, a smoothie and juice bar that serves mango bubble tea and a skilled butcher who trims and cuts prime meats. There's also a sushi bar, a fresh pasta area and salad bar with edamame and falafel, for example.
 ''The stuff here is beautiful,'' said Sabine Hack, 44, of South Orange, who was loading her cart on a recent Saturday. ''My parents are German, and I can get all the stuff they like here.'' 
 Mustafa Coskun, one of the owners of Eden Gourmet, said he's not competing with the Whole Foods Market that opened in the fall in Union nearby; his focus is more on artisanal than organic foods, he explained. 
 But there are also conventional groceries, like canned goods and common cereals, at Eden Gourmet. Mr. Coskun estimated that his inventory included 2,000 everyday items. In this tough economy, he said, he is working to add more.
 Upstairs is a casual cafe that serves pizza, wraps and salads. A full-service restaurant is scheduled to open soon, along with a spacious outdoor patio that promises to be popular in warmer weather.
 Eden Gourmet, 1 South Orange Avenue, South Orange; edengourmet.com; (973) 762-5200. (Other locations in Hoboken and Atlantic City.) 
 Sickles Market, Little Silver
 Its shelves may be filled with sophisticated treats like Marcona almonds from Spain and Madagascar dark chocolate, but the family-run specialty grocery Sickles Market in Little Silver has a country-chic feel. A winding driveway leads to this tucked-away treasure, which celebrated its 100th anniversary last year. 
 The store started as a farm stand on the family's property, which dates to 1673. In the 1990s, Bob Sickles, the third-generation owner, began adding uncommon groceries. ''The area was developing and a lot of city people moved in and brought with them a love of specialty things,'' Mr. Sickles said.
 The shop is on the smaller side by grocery store standards, at about 20,000 square feet (including gift area and garden center), but it stocks a good selection of carefully chosen specialty and conventional goods: ordinary spaghetti as well as coin-shaped croxetti, a pasta typically served with pesto Genovese; corn flakes as well as steel-cut Irish oatmeal; packaged white bread as well as crusty baguettes from Balthazar Bakery. All the makings for a meal can be found here.
 ''Old-time gourmet shops sold caviar, foie gras and a few cheeses,'' Mr. Sickles said. He sells those things, too, but he also stocks all-natural chicken, local produce and organic frozen foods. (There's no fish department, though.)
 Mr. Sickles recently hired a consultant to revamp the cheese counter; now there are about 150 aged and fresh types (availability varies) along with an assortment of quince spreads, nuts and preserves. The retail area also sells high-end table linens, ceramics and home decorations. The adjoining garden center, a sunlit 5,000-square-foot greenhouse, has exquisite orchids and other plants.
 Sickles Market, 1 Harrison Avenue, Little Silver. sicklesmarket.com; (732) 741-9563. 
 Zeytinia, Oakland
 Zeytinia is derived from the Turkish word for olive oil, and at this 16,000-square-foot market in Oakland there are some 20 different types of olives as well as more than 200 kinds of oils, according to Erdal Kilic, one of the owners. 
 There's also a mix of imported cookies, jams and coffees throughout the Mediterranean-inspired store, which opened in September 2007. Zeytinia sells fresh fruits and vegetables as well as house-made foods like couscous, roasted artichoke dip and hummus at various stations throughout the airy store. 
 ''If we're having a dinner party, we come here,'' said Carol Lavria, of Oakland, as she shopped recently with her two children. But she doesn't come here for household items like cleaning supplies and paper towels, though Zeytinia sells those too. 
 The real reason to visit Zeytinia is for fine foods, including the fresh lamb kebabs the butcher makes or the sliced smoked Scottish salmon at the deli.
 For lunch, you can order hefty sandwiches to eat at a cafe table near the checkout. After 6 p.m., all of the items at the soup, salad and hot bar (with prepared dishes like meatballs and roasted potatoes) are marked down 20 percent.
 There's plenty of takeout and corporate catering here -- and at the smaller Zeytinia in Englewood, which opened last year. Another location is planned for Meadowlands Xanadu when that project is complete.
 Zeytinia, 350 Ramapo Valley Road, Oakland; (201) 405-1515. zeytinia.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHOICES: Clockwise from above: Shopping at Eden Gourmet in South Orange
Sickles Market in Little Silver
 and preparations for the coming opening of the Fairway market at the Fashion Center in Paramus.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); BAKERIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); MEATS (72%); PRIME RATES (67%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (50%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



314 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: How to Deal With a 3 A.M. Fear

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
CAN it be that only a couple of years ago, Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group, wildly successful in private equity, treated hundreds of guests at his lavish birthday celebration to performances by Rod Stewart and Patti LaBelle? 
 Can it be that as recently as 2006, financial firms accounted for almost one-third of all the corporate profits in the United States? Or that money was so free-flowing that a single bat mitzvah party could be estimated to cost $10 million? 
 That era is gone with the wind. Now we face a severe recession, frightening jumps in unemployment, a breathtaking collapse of equity and real estate prices. Now we face a major discontinuity with what has gone before -- a real, grinding, 3 a.m. fear, replete with nightmares of bread lines. 
 Not to belabor the obvious, but much of that fear comes from the crushing downward movement of mortgage-backed bonds and derivative securities linked to them. These losses transformed local housing declines into a global crisis and, along with the breathtaking fall in stock prices, have remained the primary engines of disaster.
 Now, some of the decline in the financial markets is occurring for a very good reason: real concern about profits and coupon payments. But some of it is simply a result of the internal workings of the markets, which are pushing securities relentlessly down.
 How can we fix the system and prevent these unnecessary losses, which are causing such widespread harm?
 Here are three possible solutions:
 REIN IN A RULE Immediately end the near-universal applicability of the accounting rule formally known as FAS 157. This is the ''mark to market'' rule that requires banks and other finance houses to value securities at current market prices, even when they may plan to hold those securities for some time. 
 The rule was intended to provide greater transparency. But its deficiencies are glaring. It allows short-sellers to basically price mortgage-backed bonds and to make them trade for pennies, even if the bonds are still meeting their payments. This ''mark to market'' price often does not come even close to the value of future cash flows that can reasonably be expected. The ''mark to market'' price is just the price at which the last short-seller made his sale.
 This accounting rule kills banks and insurers, kills credit generally and makes taxpayers pay off the profits of short-sellers. It's time to stop this giant gift to those sellers. 
 REVIVE A RULE End ''naked short-selling'' and bring back the ''uptick'' rule. The naked short-seller can sell shares without having borrowed the stock first. This is like tossing great white sharks into the kiddie end of the pool. 
 And then there's the mystery of why the Securities and Exchange Commission ever ended the rule that requires an uptick in a share price before a short sale. The elimination of that restriction brings a major downside bias into prices.
 Mary L. Schapiro, the new chairwoman of the S.E.C., should bring back the uptick rule. Yesterday wouldn't be soon enough.
 ADD A RULE Don't allow speculators with no insurable interest to buy credit-default swaps on bonds. 
 When used properly, these instruments can function as a legitimate kind of insurance. Yes, if you are a real buyer of the bonds of a given company, you should be able to buy insurance. But you shouldn't if you are just a shark circling prey, bringing blood into the water.
 Allowing speculators to buy C.D.S.'s merely to bet against a firm in difficulty just blasts the prices of bonds, kills the balance sheets of banks, insurers and hedge funds, and throws fear into the system. 
 Unwinding C.D.S. agreements that are already in place would be complicated, but it can be done, as Gretchen Morgenson has written. 
 THE situation is grave. Why do we allow the continuation of practices that are killing all faith in the future, demolishing lending and battering retirement hopes? 
 Yes, Wall Street brought much of this upon itself. But we have to save the markets for the rest of us. If that means saving some of the fools and knaves, so be it. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); ACCOUNTING (69%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



315 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Cushioning the Blow

BYLINE: By MARC FITTEN. 
Marc Fitten, the editor of The Chattahoochee Review, is the author of the forthcoming novel ''Valeria's Last Stand.''

DATELINE: Atlanta 

 BODY:
 REALIZING my closed wallet is part of the problem, I felt emboldened to contribute to the economic cause. So I set out looking for something to buy.
 My first stop: Expo Design Center, the high-end furnishing and fixtures chain owned by the Atlanta-based Home Depot. I figured any money I forked over to a hometown retailer would be a plus for a place in need of tax revenue and recently ranked America's third emptiest city. 
 Besides, this was my last chance to visit an Expo -- Home Depot is shuttering the chain, ''high-end furnishing and fixtures'' being the business you don't want to be in when homes are losing value, foreclosures are rampant and the country is stuck in an economic morass. Thirty-four stores in all. Seven thousand jobs across the country. They'll be gone soon. They're having a sale! 
 The Expo closest to me is in a strip mall across the street from a shopping mall next door to a strip mall over by a few hotels. The shopping mall is anchored by the likes of Bloomingdale's and Nordstrom. This is one of America's sparkling neighborhoods, and there is a lot of auto traffic. A premium location. When I arrived, the Expo parking lot was half-full, or half-empty depending on how you look at these things. Inside, the store was a quarter-full. I looked around.
 What I saw: $300 faucets, $2,000 carpets that don't fly, $30,000 ''wine enthusiast'' kitchens. Floor tiles, knobs, basins, dryers, lamps, chandeliers, drapes, carpets, pillows. Pillows! Surely I could afford a pillow! I picked up a wine-colored pillow. I looked at the price tag.
 Thirty dollars! Are they crazy? At 40 percent off? No way am I spending $30 on a pillow.
 And because I wasn't going to buy that pillow, and because I've never bought a $30 pillow, according to my rudimentary understanding of economics, here's what I've wrought: The design stores close and instantly the shopping plazas that rented their spaces to Home Depot lose revenue and the communities where these stores were located lose tax revenue. Probably reeling from other economic problems, community programs, including education, are gutted and as a society we'll all collectively enjoy the fruit of that eviscerating in 20 years ... again, because I couldn't bring myself to buy the pillow.
 So I'm standing in the aisle thinking about this pillow, which in my hands feels like the detritus of a bygone era. A relic of high capitalism. More suited for a time capsule than my home. I think: textiles and foam. Tassels and ribbon. Where does it all come from? 
 There must be a foam factory somewhere in China. The Chinese probably made a nice dollar selling foam to American pillow companies. Those companies probably employ designers and salesmen. Or maybe the pillows were miraculously made in the United States, and the pillow manufacturer contracted the work out to a small business owner and that business owner hired a friendly seamstress to put those pillows together. 
 Then brawny truck drivers delivered truckloads of pillows and smiling decorators built pillowy showrooms where salesmen sold them. It dawns on me that a universe kept this Expo going. All of it predicated on the notion that there existed an infinite appetite for overpriced pillows. 
 And there's the rub: credit is dead and rich ladies don't grow on trees. And how many times a year did the rich ladies of Atlanta ever need to buy a pillow anyway? It was impossible for the finite number of wealthy housewives of Atlanta to keep the pillow industry afloat. Why would a company speculate and order more and more seasonal pillows when they knew they would never sell them? How could everyone supporting this system, from the foam manufacturer to the seamstress to the salesperson, think this great big pillow shuffle would last? For this kind of system to be sustainable, a society would either have to make more rich ladies or fewer pillows. 
 I put the pillow back and I left. I felt bad about it. I wanted to help, but are they kidding? Thirty dollars? Really?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOPHIA MARTINECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); FLOORING (64%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (86%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (86%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



316 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: What Contract?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
COULD the days of the iron-clad contract be numbered? 
 It used to be that once a buyer went to contract on an apartment, the terms of the deal were all but set in stone. Sales prices never budged, and if the buyer balked, the down payment went bye-bye.
 But double-digit price declines and the lending drought have started to threaten this once near-inviolable pillar of New York real estate. Buyers are demanding concessions from developers on apartments that they say have lost up to 30 percent in value. Others are hoping to back out of their contracts entirely, while keeping their down payments in the process. 
 The sudden demand has sent lawyers scurrying to uncover avant-garde legal tactics for ducking out of a deal. Downtown conversions like 75 Wall Street and new developments like One Hunters Point in Long Island City are facing suits from buyers seeking to break contracts on the basis of a once-obscure consumer protection law. 
 The number of New Yorkers filing claims with the attorney general's office to claw back their down payments has more than tripled in the last two years, although most disputes don't reach this step. In 2007, 57 claims were filed; in 2008, 168. By Feb. 20 of this year, the office had already recorded 74 claims. 
 The ultra high end is not immune. At the Brompton, a heavily marketed Upper East Side condominium designed by the architect Robert A. M. Stern, lawyers say some buyers are calling on the project's developer to pay closing costs, cover taxes and relocation expenses, and, yes, even retroactively drop the price of apartments.
 It remains unclear whether these efforts will be convincing, whether at the negotiating table or in a court of law. On the developer's side is the legal strength of a signed contract and the financial leverage of a buyer's deposit. 
 But the incentives have realigned in a market where many apartments are now worth less than their purchase prices. It may make financial sense for buyers to cut their losses and leave their deposit on the table rather than move into a money pit. And while developers would pocket the down payment, they might be stuck with a unit that eventually sells for much less -- or even worse, just sits. This new math may put some developers in a negotiating mood.
 ''Behind this, the big elephant in the room is the price,'' said Adam Leitman Bailey, a real estate lawyer who says he is representing unhappy buyers from nearly 50 buildings. 
 The traditional method for a buyer to break a contract is to prove that some element of the completed unit differs from the developer's offering plan. This is why lawyers have been known to use lasers to measure square footage to within a millimeter and to debate descriptions of views and amenities. 
 But if the issue is more financial than material, buyers may be forced to ''in essence, throw themselves at the mercy of the developer,'' said Peter Graubard, a real estate lawyer.
 ''They are saying, 'Hey, listen, I'm in a financial hardship and the loss of this 10 or 15 percent deposit is going to be devastating to me right now,' '' said Mr. Graubard, explaining that every one of his clients who went to contract before October 2008 -- about 30 in all -- is trying to renegotiate or abandon a deal. 
 Officials at the attorney general's office said they were seeing more appeals based on such emotional pleas. 
 But these arguments may not fly. Unless a contract includes a mortgage contingency, nothing in the law allows for a change in financial circumstances or the lending market to constitute a ''right of rescission.'' 
 Sometimes, though, a bit of saber-rattling can shake loose concessions. 
 ''Threatening not to close, threatening legal action, maybe the threat of an attorney general's action, all can bring a developer to negotiate,'' Mr. Graubard said. 
 Some lawyers are looking beyond the traditional methods of arguing breach of contract. 
 A Web site called No-Condo.com opened in December and immediately received nearly 100 queries from New York residents who want their deposits back. It is the brainchild of Lawrence Weiner, a lawyer at Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer in Woodbridge, N.J., whose arsenal includes the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, a 41-year-old consumer protection law rarely applied in the city.
 Created to protect against speculators selling uninhabitable plots, the act requires developers of condominiums or conversions with more than 100 units to provide buyers with a particular type of property report containing information like proof of ownership and the availability of public utilities.
 ''I wouldn't categorize it as a technicality,'' Mr. Weiner said. ''A lot of developers, in a rush to bring things to market, chose not to comply, or maybe they didn't even realize they needed to comply.'' Since December, Wilentz has filed lawsuits on behalf of buyers at 20 Pine Street, 75 Wall Street, One Hunters Point, One Brooklyn Bridge Park and 111 Fulton Street. The developers of these buildings all declined to comment or did not return calls.
 The law has its limits as a negotiation device: a developer is exempt from the act if he or she has pledged to complete the unit within two years. But for distressed buyers in certain buildings, the Land Sales Act may offer a way out. 
 Cynthia Ehrlich, a self-employed tax accountant in her early 50s, made an $85,000 down payment -- ''all the money I had'' -- last March on a small one-bedroom at 75 Wall Street, a full-service condominium converted from an old bank building. 
 The problems began almost immediately. Ms. Ehrlich said she had been attracted to the property by a 10-year tax abatement, but soon learned that the development had not yet qualified for the abatement program. In May, she lost a major source of revenue, and was consequently turned down for a mortgage. Because her contract did not have a contingency clause, she said, the developer declined to return her deposit. 
 She plans to file suit this month for a return of her deposit on the grounds that the property violated the Land Sales Disclosure Act by not providing the proper property report. Ms. Ehrlich said she had regained hope after learning of the existence of the act.
 ''It's the only good news I got,'' Ms. Ehrlich said. ''It's a lot of money to lose, and I don't make a lot.''
 The developer of 75 Wall Street, the Hakimian Organization, declined to comment. 
 At the Brompton, with its ''Stylishly Proper'' slogan, luxe location on East 85th Street and prices to match, several buyers said they were in financial straits. A group of nearly 30 buyers recently organized over the Internet and held a meeting to discuss their options. 
 ''We just feel this is not primarily a real estate issue,'' said Patricia Congiu, 45, an Upper East Sider who went to contract on a 1,900-square-foot three-bedroom in September 2007. ''This is not a situation where someone signed a contract and the price went down. It's a global recession, like nothing seen since the Great Depression.''
 Ms. Congiu said she and her husband had ''wanted the building to be our final home. We were looking forward to raising our family there.'' But now she is not sure whether her income can support the property. Like several other buyers in the Brompton, she said she hoped the developer, the Related Companies, would sympathize with their situation and provide relief so they can move in. ''If they gave us a concession,'' she said, ''we can have a cushion. I don't want to hurt the building.'' 
 Other unhappy buyers at the Brompton say financial concerns are not the issue. Marc Rossell, 54, went to contract with his wife in August 2007 for a 3,600-square-foot spread, combining three ninth-floor apartments. 
 He said he was told by the developer that his southern view would clear an adjacent building, but on a walk-through inspection, he found ''a water tank right there outside of our windows, and an ugly rooftop.'' Mr. Rossell did not think the view matched the description in the offering plan, and believed the discrepancy could help him get free of his contract. 
 ''It didn't seem to be of the same quality that they basically represented in the showroom,'' he said. ''We definitely have the money. It's not that at all.'' 
 Through a spokeswoman, Related declined to comment.
 As buyers become more cautious, contracts may begin looking more like they did before the housing boom of the last 15 years. 
 ''You're going to see a shift back toward an inclusion of mortgage contingencies,'' predicted Jay B. Solomon, a partner at Klein & Solomon, a real estate law firm. Such contingencies provided an out for buyers when financing was not available, but they fell out of favor in the last 15 years as buyers faced more competition for apartments. 
 Under New York state law, buyers in a new development have the right to get out of their contracts if the developer does not close at least one unit within a year of the originally projected start date. Developers almost always find a way to meet this requirement, but lawyers say that buyers are now putting those initial deals under a microscope. 
 ''If you see one unit that's closed and nothing else for three months, that seems sort of suspect,'' said Meg Goble, a partner at the real estate law firm Hanley & Goble. ''If you see the unit has closed and there's no certificate of occupancy, that also looks sort of suspect.'' 
 Ms. Goble said evidence that the sponsor had spun some sort of sweetheart deal for the unit, like giving it away to a friend, could provide a legal ground for breaking a contract.
 Of course, not everyone in the industry has sympathy for the buyer who wants concessions or money back.
 ''I think it is the height of audacity,'' said Stuart Saft, a partner in the real estate division of Dewey & Leboeuf, which represents several large developers in contract disputes. ''The buyer calls and says, 'The apartment is not worth as much as when we signed for it.' My response for that is, if the market went up 20 percent, would you have given us 20 percent more because the market improved?'' 
 And for his part, Mr. Graubard, primarily a buyers' lawyer, is skeptical of efforts to undo purchase agreements. ''You really can't get that creative; there's only so far you can go,'' he said. ''Without the enforceability of a signed contract -- well, really, what do we have?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A CHANGE OF HEART: Buyers want out of 75 Wall Street.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ON SECOND THOUGHT: Buyers have filed suit at 20 Pine.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 UPON SOBER REFLECTION: Lawrence Weiner, a lawyer at Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer, thinks an obscure law may be of use to disgruntled buyers. He's behind theWeb site No-Condo.com. A group of nearly 30 buyers at the Brompton, left, held a meeting to discuss their options.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RELOCATIONS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



317 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: The Private Army That Keeps Roads Clear

BYLINE: By DUNSTAN A. McNICHOL

DATELINE: Ewing Township 

 BODY:
 TWELVE hours into the late-winter snowstorm that roared across New Jersey on Monday, a procession of seven heavy snowplows steamed northward on I-95, arrayed across the three-lane highway like combines in a field of asphalt and ice.
 Behind them, among the commuters jockeying for a piece of the cleared pavement that the six-ton plow trucks left in their wake, Thomas Myslinski kept pace in a Dodge Durango that was dwarfed by the plows. 
 Mr. Myslinski, a State Department of Transportation supervisor, was also the official ''snow spotter'' keeping tabs on the private plow team on this day.
 Across the state, 60 other snow spotters trailed 1,365 private snowplows that had been dispatched late Sunday to help dig the state's highways out from several inches of snow.
 The snow spotters are paid $40 an hour to hit the highways whatever time of day or night the snow flies. Their job is to follow behind snowplowers under contract to the state, making sure that each crew arrives at its assigned spot, and to direct snow-clearing operations.
 All of the snow spotters work full time at other jobs with the state when they are not following plows. This season, the spotters have been called out seven times, including for Monday's storm. They are one part of a snow-clearing operation that has cost the state $28.5 million so far this winter, officials said.
 Jeffrey J. Callahan, the Transportation Department's assistant commissioner for operations, said that there used to be more than 100 spotters, but that recruiting ''volunteers'' for the assignment has become more difficult in recent years as budget cuts have thinned the ranks of full-time state employees.
 While $40 an hour can be enticing, the prospect of getting a phone call from one of the agency's regional operating centers at unpredictable hours is not. ''People think they want to do this until they get that first 2 a.m. call,'' Mr. Callahan said. 
 The spotters head out whenever the private teams of plows to which they are assigned get the call to help clear the highways. Erin Phalon, a Transportation Department spokeswoman, said the private crews are generally tapped as reinforcement for the state's own fleet of 535 plows when the forecast calls for snow accumulations of up to two inches over an eight-hour period.
 The decision to deploy the contractors, and when to put them on the clock, is made by department officials at an emergency command center in West Trenton.
 When private plowers are dispatched to their assigned stretch of road, their contract with the state requires them to be on the scene within 90 minutes. When they arrive, they will most likely meet their assigned spotter, who has already been introduced to the contractors at preparation meetings and equipment inspections conducted each summer.
 On the scene, the snow spotters help determine the optimum level of salt that should be spread, trying to balance economy with efficiency. Depending on the temperature of the roads and the texture of the snowfall, salt trucks can be calibrated to spread anywhere from 150 pounds of salt per lane-mile to as much as 500 pounds.
 The spotters also coordinate with other crews to ensure that the entire state highway system is plowed.
 After they are done with their snow spotting duties, the spotters have to show up for their regular jobs, regardless of how much time they may have spent on the road watching the plowers.
 Robert Sudol, a 29-year Transportation Department veteran who has been spotting for years, put in 13 hours in the most recent storm, patrolling a stretch of I-195 in Monmouth County. But he recalled a blizzard in 1996 that kept him on the road for three days.
 ''We're able to take a break, head to Wawa and get coffee,'' he said. ''When you're that tired, any port in a storm.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FORGING AHEAD: A convoy of privately operated plows helped clear highways in the Trenton area last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



318 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Blame for the Global Crisis

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Revenge of the Glut'' (column, March 2), Paul Krugman repeats the claim that Asia caused the current global crisis by oversaving. He writes that after the Asian financial crisis of 1997-98, the emerging economies of Asia amassed ''huge war chests of foreign assets'' and that ''most of that money went to the United States -- hence our giant trade deficit.'' 
 But the numbers don't add up. The Asian developing countries ran a combined current account surplus (net lending to the rest of the world) of $38.3 billion in 2000, while the United States ran a whopping current account deficit of $417.4 billion. 
 By 2004, the United States' deficit had swelled to $625 billion, against a surplus of developing Asia of $82.5 billion. 
 In fact, the Federal Reserve created two bubbles, the dot-com bubble (1998-2001) and the subprime bubble (2002-7), and these substantially raised American borrowing from the rest of the world. Now the whole world pays the price. 
 Nobody else made us do it, least of all the developing countries of Asia.
 Jeffrey D. Sachs New York, March 3, 2009
 The writer is director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



319 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Challenger to Spano Announces Rematch

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MALONE

DATELINE: HAWTHORNE 

 BODY:
 FOUR years after losing to County Executive Andrew J. Spano, Rob Astorino, a radio broadcaster who captured 42 percent of the vote in 2005, said he is looking to run again for Westchester's top government job. 
 In an interview at his home here, Mr. Astorino, 41, a Republican, said he would make lowering taxes and reducing the size of county government priorities in his campaign to help make Westchester more affordable for middle-class residents. He said he had become increasingly concerned about the number of For Sale signs popping up in his neighborhood. 
 ''I was concerned in 2005, and I'm more concerned now about the economy and how dangerous it's getting for people to live in Westchester,'' he said. ''It's almost impossible to do so because of the taxes here.'' 
 Mr. Astorino said he would formally announce his candidacy later this month. Republican officials expect no opposition.
 Taking on Mr. Spano, a Democrat, again is a considerable challenge given that he has held the county executive's seat since 1998 and enjoys high name recognition throughout the heavily Democratic county. 
 Mr. Astorino has been involved in local politics for many years, winning a seat on the Mount Pleasant School Board as a college student and then a seat at age 23 on the Town Board, where he put in a dozen years. More recently, he has held an array of county positions, including county legislator and vice chairman for the county Board of Ethics. 
 Robert F. Meehan, the Mount Pleasant town supervisor and a Republican, said he had known Mr. Astorino since his election to the school board in 1991. 
 ''Rob is very familiar with how local government operates,'' said Mr. Meehan, who described Mr. Astorino as ''principled and very dedicated.'' 
 The father of two, Mr. Astorino has elevated his public profile since becoming station manager and program director at the Catholic Channel, a talk station on the satellite service SiriusXM Radio, in late 2006. He hosts a weekly radio show from St. Patrick's Cathedral in Manhattan with the archbishop, which will continue when Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan of Milwaukee is installed as archbishop of New York next month. 
 Mr. Astorino said he would keep his political ambitions off the air. ''I think there should be a separation of church and state,'' he said with a laugh. 
 Douglas Colety, the Westchester Republican Committee chairman, said Mr. Astorino, whom he is supporting, is a tireless participant in local political functions and community events. ''He's fluent in county and local issues and understands what needs to be done,'' Mr. Colety said. ''We're very excited about his candidacy.''
 Mr. Astorino criticized Mr. Spano for failing to address what he called fraud in the county's Medicaid program, for the size of the county budget and for having property taxes climb on his watch. ''Mr. Spano has been responsible for raising taxes to a level that's not only uncomfortable, but has been damaging to people,'' Mr. Astorino said. ''He's got to defend that, and I don't think he can.'' 
 Mr. Spano did not comment, but his spokeswoman, Deputy County Executive Susan Tolchin, responded by saying that the county tax has climbed an average of 2.6 percent annually over the last five years and that Mr. Spano has cut $23 million from the budget in the last two. 
 ''It's easy for someone to say there's too much fat in the budget,'' she said. ''It's harder for someone to say what they'd eliminate.''
 Mr. Astorino, who said he planned to take a leave of absence from work in the fall to throw himself into his campaign, said he knew it would be bruising. 
 ''It's not something we took lightly,'' he said of his family. ''At the end of the day, we believe this is the right thing to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CANDIDATE: Rob Astorino says, ''This is the right thing to do.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RELIGION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MEDICAID (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); ETHICS (64%); CALENDARS (63%); CHURCH & STATE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



320 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Program By Military Redirects Dropouts

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: FORT GORDON, Ga. 

 BODY:
By his own account, Donte' A. Dungey had no motivation in high school, sleeping through classes and sometimes showing up only for the free lunch to reduce the burden on his mother, who was struggling with nine other children. Held back three times and scheduled to enter the 10th grade at nearly 18, he knew that ''high school just wasn't going to work for me,'' he said.
 But he was also ready to change. More than five months ago, Mr. Dungey took up residence in a program for dropouts called Youth Challenge, run by the National Guard, that is proving effective at using military atmosphere and discipline to turn around at-risk teenagers. 
 Mr. Dungey is one of 203 youths who graduated from a grueling physical and educational program on Saturday. Here at one of two Youth Challenge camps in Georgia, he rose at 4:30 a.m. each day, made his bunk with neat corners and sweated through an hour of calisthenics or running. 
 He has worn a uniform, marched in step with his platoon to the dining hall, completed 50 hours of community service, and spent long hours studying for the General Educational Development diploma that opens the door to college or career training for dropouts. The camp bars cigarettes and alcohol. 
 ''It feels good to have discipline,'' Mr. Dungey said. Sooner than most of his fellow cadets, he passed the G.E.D. exams and began tutoring others. Like all the youths, he has a personally selected adult mentor in his hometown who will advise him over the year ahead, and this one-time aimless school dropout now hopes to join the Air Force. 
 President Obama's urgent call for every student to graduate and receive higher training has put a new spotlight on programs like the Job Corps, the government's education and career-training program; YouthBuild, a group that helps dropouts earn G.E.D. certificates as they rebuild urban housing; and the smaller Youth Challenge program, which graduates more than 7,000 teenagers each year -- a large majority of them male -- from sites in 28 states. 
 The early results of a national study comparing youths who qualified for the program and were then admitted or denied on a random basis suggest that Youth Challenge may be the most successful large-scale program yet evaluated to help dropouts. 
 Nine months after participants left the program, they were 36 percent more likely than those in the control group to have obtained a G.E.D. or a high school degree. They were more than three times as likely to be attending college and 9 percent more likely to be working full time.
 No one calls the program a panacea, but it has generated excitement among researchers because ''the impacts are pretty large,'' said Harry J. Holzer, a labor and poverty expert at Georgetown University. ''So few interventions have proven to be cost-effective for the out-of-school, disadvantaged youth population when rigorously evaluated.''
 Dan Bloom of MDRC, a research group based in New York that is leading the study, said, ''It's very promising, but it's also early,'' adding that the numbers will change as graduates are followed. 
 The camps, mostly at military bases, do not admit youths with felony records and expel those who fail a drug test, steal or fight. Participation is voluntary.
 Usually about 20 percent of entrants drop out, mainly in the first two weeks. On average at Fort Gordon, 78 percent of those completing the five and a half months in residence obtain a G.E.D., said Janet Zimmerman, a retired Army colonel who runs the camp. 
 ''By taking them away from their neighborhoods, we're giving them a safe place to get their act together,'' Colonel Zimmerman said. ''These youths have been told they are failures. Here they find that if they straighten up, others will believe in them.'' 
 Nationally, about half the graduates have gone directly into jobs, but a question facing this and other training programs is how much harder it will be to find work in this economy. More graduates may instead seek further training or try to join the military, although the standards for enlistment are rising, too, and not all graduates are taken. 
 In recent years, only 15 percent to 20 percent of Youth Challenge graduates have entered the armed services or the National Guard. ''This is not a military recruitment program,'' said Jennifer Buck, the deputy secretary of defense for reserve affairs, who oversees the program. It was founded by Congress in 1993 to make use of the military's experience in shaping up young people. The routines have a military cast, though the rigors are short of a real boot camp and there is no training in weapons or tactics. 
 ''The dropout rate is as great a threat to this country as terrorism is,'' Ms. Buck said, justifying the use of defense money for the program -- $88.5 million this year, with the states adding another $50 million. The National Guard, rooted in the states and with a tradition of community service, is an ideal home for the program, Ms. Buck said. 
 The quasi-military approach is not best for every errant youth. Connie Flanagan, a psychologist and professor of youth civic development at Pennsylvania State University, said the group cohesion in Youth Challenge, the emphasis on controlling anger and the immediate feedback on behavior all seemed to be useful elements. 
 ''On the other hand, the real world doesn't have those kinds of support systems,'' she said. ''As a next step, the kids have to learn to think for themselves, and we usually don't think of the military approach as a way to learn autonomy and self-determination.'' Ideally, she said, the civilian mentoring, which is supposed to continue after the camp, can help with the transition. 
 But for the right person, Youth Challenge seems to work. Branden Williams, 22, of Augusta finished the camp at Fort Gordon in 2005.
 ''I was headed down the wrong path, skipping school, doing drugs,'' he said. ''Youth Challenge changed my life totally.''
 ''All my friends are either locked up or dead,'' Mr. Williams said, ''and that's where I would have ended up.'' He decided he needed to do something radical after he was stabbed eight times on a school bus. 
 After gaining his G.E.D., he attended a culinary arts school for two years, thinking he might be a chef. Now, promoted to assistant manager at a Checkers Drive-In, he is taking a business administration course at a junior college and hopes to manage a restaurant. 
 But the lure of old neighborhoods can persist. One of his closest buddies in the camp has found little work and, Mr. Williams recently learned, was arrested on drug charges. 
 ''I never thought he'd backtrack,'' Mr. Williams said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cadets in the Youth Challenge program waiting for the instruction to be seated at the dining hall at Fort Gordon, Ga. They learn military, academic and life skills.
Cadets in morning fitness training. Donte' A. Dungey, who struggled to find motivation in high school, said of the National Guard program, ''It feels good to have discipline.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14)
 Dustin White led fellow cadets in formation in the final weeks of the Youth Challenge program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ARMED FORCES (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); AIR FORCES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



321 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: At Labor Gathering, Luxury, Jockeying and Applause for Secretary

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
Union leaders cannot seem to get enough of Miami's luxury hotels. Unemployment may be soaring and the stock market tanking, but that did not stop the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s leaders from gathering at the Fontainebleau hotel-resort last week, where rooms often run $400 or more a night.
 Fox News ridiculed labor leaders for using members' dues money to stay there. The hotel was a favorite of Frank Sinatra, and the opening aerial shot of the 1964 James Bond movie ''Goldfinger'' was filmed there. More recently, it was host to a televised Victoria's Secret fashion show. 
 Several union presidents, standing near the Fontainebleau's 10 pools and 40,000-square-foot spa, mumbled that they were embarrassed to be there. They said they were kept so busy attending meetings from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. that they had no time to luxuriate poolside.
 In 1996, John J. Sweeney, then the newly elected president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., announced that the federation would halt its decades-old practice of holding winter meetings at a luxury hotel in Bal Harbour, just up the road. Mr. Sweeney saw how labor was taking a public-relations beating with all the photographs of union potentates sunning themselves by the hotel pool. 
 A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders defend the decision to meet at the Fontainebleau, saying that two years ago they promised to hold their 2009 executive council sessions at the hotel to persuade its owners to use union labor for the rest of a $1 billion renovation. That deal led to four million hours of unionized work, labor leaders say.
 Nonetheless, fearing embarrassment, Mr. Sweeney's aides recently told the Fontainebleau they wanted to cancel the meeting. Florida unions quickly protested, saying the state's embattled economy needed labor's tourism dollars and vote of confidence.
 ''I've never seen Sweeney so agonized,'' one aide said.
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. agreed to keep the event here only after the Fontainebleau cut room rates to $199 a night for the meeting. ''That's less than it would cost for a hotel room in Washington,'' said Denise Mitchell, the communications director of the federation.
 Talk of Succession
 Labor leaders love intrigue. So, not surprisingly, the hottest item not on the official agenda was who will succeed Mr. Sweeney. He will step down in September after serving 14 years as the nation's top labor leader (although he originally pledged not to serve more than 10 years).
 His longtime secretary-treasurer, Richard Trumka, is buttonholing labor leaders to seek their backing, while telling them that he has already sewn up majority support. Mr. Trumka, the former president of the United Mine Workers, became a hero in the liberal blogosphere during the presidential campaign after he gave an impassioned speech telling white union members that it would be morally unpardonable (and colossally stupid) to vote against Barack Obama because of his race. 
 Another candidate is Harold A. Schaitberger, president of the International Association of Fire Fighters. His star turn came in 2004 when he was the first union president to endorse Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, for president, and, as a result, he was at Mr. Kerry's side through much of that campaign.
 Another contender is Terence O'Sullivan, president of the construction laborers' union. Mr. O'Sullivan is a formidable speaker, but his candidacy faces a big problem. His union joined several others in quitting the A.F.L.-C.I.O. several years ago. Now he is pushing hard for labor to reunite, but many union presidents might not forgive him for seceding. 
 Mr. Trumka is the leading contender, but he, too, faces a problem. In 1997, he asserted his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination during a federal investigation into illegal contributions to Ron Carey's re-election campaign as the Teamsters president. Some labor leaders say that should exclude him from consideration. 
 Mr. Trumka hopes union leaders will overlook the issue and elect him. But it is unlikely that labor's many adversaries will overlook it if he wins.
 Wowing Workers
 The most exciting event at the three-day gathering actually took place before it began. On Monday night, Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis gave her first speech since being confirmed, and she seemed a different person from the reticent one at her confirmation hearing. 
 Ms. Solis was so timid at the hearing, evidently fearful of alienating Republicans, that some advocates for workers voiced concern that President Obama had picked the wrong person.
 But the Hilda Solis who appeared at a community forum at the Greater Bethel A.M.E. Church in Miami electrified the crowd of 600.
 Ms. Solis talked about her immigrant parents, both union members, and about her father's solid Teamster paycheck. ''It gave him the sense of security that he could push his children to do whatever they wanted in this great country of ours,'' she said.
 After her speech, a dozen workers spoke about their problems -- of hours cut back, of threatened foreclosures, of being punished for supporting a union. After each worker spoke, Ms. Solis offered words of empathy. 
 The last worker complained of racial and sexual discrimination on the job, and she asked what Ms. Solis could do to help.
 Ms. Solis vowed far more aggressive enforcement of workplace protection laws. ''You can rest assured that there is a new sheriff in town,'' she said. 
 At that, the crowd leapt to its feet and gave her a standing ovation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis, center, and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, John J. Sweeney, left, attended a community forum at a Miami church on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); FASHION SHOWS (55%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (51%); TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (72%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: HILDA L SOLIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



322 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: In Vero Beach, Dodger Blue Has Now Faded to Black

BYLINE: By JOSHUA ROBINSON

DATELINE: VERO BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
Morning in Dodgertown still feels like morning in Dodgertown. 
 Sixty-one spring trainings after the Dodgers arrived here -- and one year since their departure -- the sun still glimmers off the heart-shaped lake. The smell of freshly cut grass hangs thick in the warm air. The sienna dirt has been finely groomed and the aisles between the seats at Holman Stadium have been swept. The block capitals over the home clubhouse still say, Think Blue. 
 But the afternoons are different. No one lays the chalk lines along the basepaths, the scoreboard stays off and the gates are padlocked. The Dodgers are running through their spring training paces nearly 2,000 miles away at an $80 million complex in Glendale, Ariz., that is closer to their home in Los Angeles. Dodgertown, ready for baseball in pristine condition, sits empty. 
 ''It's chock full of tradition and stories, and I could not live with myself if I was in charge and we let it go by the wayside,'' said Steve Carlsward, a Vero Beach native who has been a groundskeeper at Dodgertown for 28 years. ''But baseball is a business, so no animosity to the Dodgers. If you'd said to me five years ago that they would leave, though, I would have laughed at you.'' 
 The Dodgers turned in their keys for good in July. The Vero Beach Devil Rays, a Florida State League Class A team, played their last game in September. Now, Indian River County, which owns the facility, spends about $100,000 a month maintaining it, waiting for another occupant to move in. 
 ''If you maintain it, they will come,'' the Indian River County administrator Joe Baird said. 
 The Baltimore Orioles, who spend the spring in a run-down facility in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., were interested, but negotiations with them fell through last year. Baird has been lambasted in the local news media for failing to bring in a team this year, but he said he was in talks with eight baseball organizations. He would say only that one is a major league club. 
 Potential major league tenants are few and far between, particularly because the West Coast teams now make their spring training homes in Arizona. But the Minnesota Twins stand out since they play second fiddle to the Boston Red Sox in Fort Myers, Fla., a city spoiled by two teams. Vero Beach would settle for one. 
 ''It's important to the community to have baseball,'' Baird said. ''It brings identity.'' 
 For Dodgers fans, it brought much more than that. With Ebbets Field long committed to memory, Vero Beach was the last vestige of the Brooklyn Dodgers and a tangible link to those legendary teams of the 1950s. After all, the Dodgers spent more years here (60) than they did at Ebbets Field (45) or Dodger Stadium (48) -- two pillars of Walter O'Malley's empire. 
 Dodgertown was the third. Though O'Malley, the Dodgers' former owner, was reviled in Brooklyn for moving the team west, he is remembered as a hero here. O'Malley took spring training baseball and his money to Vero Beach in 1948 when it was a swamp-and-beaches town of 3,500. O'Malley spent his money freely on community projects like Dodgertown Elementary School, said Rody L. Johnson, a 75-year-old native of Vero Beach and the author of ''The Rise and Fall of Dodgertown.'' 
 By the time they left, Johnson said, the Dodgers were contributing $100,000 a year to local charities and paying $300,000 in taxes.
 Baird said a recent assessment commissioned by the county found the simple presence of baseball generated more than $20 million a year in the area. When the Dodgers left, more than 100 employees lost their jobs, including 24 members of Carlsward's grounds crew, and few took the team up on its offer of new jobs in Arizona. Baird said he did not know just how much a spring training without baseball, combined with a recession, would hurt Vero Beach or the county. He is working frantically to find a new tenant. 
 If the county succeeds, Dodgertown could be ready for a new occupant in days. Even the laundry room is ready to tackle dirt and grass stains -- the bottles of detergent are full.
 All a new tenant would have to do is paint over the interlocking LA that is on everything from the weights to the 62 empty lockers and erase the whiteboards that still lay out pitching plans for Jonathan Broxton, Brad Penny and Derek Lowe. 
 The signs advertising Dodger Dogs may have to stay, though. 
 ''That's all the stuff we didn't want to touch,'' the assistant county administrator Michael Zito said. ''It's part of the nostalgia.'' 
 But the nostalgia spreads far beyond the locked gates of Dodgertown, where fans still drive by to snap a picture. At Bobby's, a local restaurant, the owner Bobby McCarthy misses the Dodgers. They were his best customers. 
 He counted Mike Scioscia, Rick Monday and Tommy Lasorda among his raucous regulars in 1981, the year he opened and the year the Dodgers won the World Series. 
 And every St. Patrick's Day, which fell during the dog days of spring training, Steve Yeager, the catcher and 1981 World Series most valuable player, would fill in as a bartender. 
 ''This became the official hangout of the Dodgers,'' he said, surrounded by walls of photographs with dedications. ''There was always a lot of excitement during those 45 days. And there were always a lot of good-looking girls in here.'' 
 The nights in Dodgertown are different now, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After 60 years in Vero Beach, Fla., above, the Dodgers now spend spring training in Arizona. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.SP1)
Indian River County is paying about $100,000 a month for the upkeep of Dodgertown and is working to find a new tenant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Pee Wee Reese, top right, and the Dodgers in Vero Beach in 1958. Steve Carlsward, top, has been a groundskeeper for 28 years at Dodgertown and is helping keep the facilities ready. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
 BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.SP4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); COUNTIES (69%); SPORTS BUSINESS (68%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



323 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Feeling That Complaints Go Unheard

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Several months ago, William Stewart, a physical education teacher, found a $100 ticket in his mailbox. The charge? The sidewalk in front of his home on East 168th Street was dirty. 
 That day, Mr. Stewart recalled, he looked at the wrappers and paper bags in front of his house, which, he said, had been blown there by the wind. Then he looked across the street: Outside an abandoned house, junk was piled high, including broken furniture, cardboard boxes, pieces of wood, a pair of blue jeans. 
 Mr. Stewart took pictures -- of his sidewalk and of the abandoned house -- and took them both to a hearing. The judge who heard the case looked at the photographs and dismissed his ticket, he recalled. 
 Once a rooming house frequented by prostitutes and drug addicts, 810 East 168th Street has been boarded up since the authorities vacated it about a year ago, neighbors said. Their calls to 311 and their complaints to the sanitation officers who write tickets for littering have gone unheeded, they said. 
 ''This house would have been cleaned up by now if it was in one of the nice neighborhoods in Manhattan,'' said Mr. Stewart, 50. ''Let's be realistic: The city takes action based on where the complaints are coming from.''
 That assessment is shared by many of his neighbors in Morrisania and by residents of Claremont, Crotona Park East and parts of Melrose.
 This swath of the Bronx -- roughly bordered by the Cross Bronx Expressway to the north, East 159th Street to the south, the Sheridan Expressway to the east and Webster Avenue to the west -- has endured the fires of the 1970s, the crack epidemic of the 1980s and the crime wave that accompanied it. It survived the recession of the early 1990s and now faces another one, with the borough now posting the city's highest unemployment rate. 
 Atayla Suazo, 21, a math and reading tutor who lives on East 164th Street, said that the police chase away bands of youths who go around making noise and causing mischief in the summertime. But what she does not understand, she said as she folded her clothes at the Laundry Day Superstore on Boston Road, ''is why the city doesn't give these kids something to do.''
 The area has no malls, no bowling alleys, no movie theaters and only a handful of community organizations that offer summer programs, she lamented. There used to be a skating rink nearby, but it closed ''because there were too many fights,'' Ms. Suazo said. 
 The streets offer a mix of hope and despondency: newly built homes across from fenced-in lots sprinkled with garbage and roamed by rats. At the intersection of Union Avenue and Freeman Street, prostitutes walked the sidewalks on a recent frigid afternoon as mothers passed by escorting their children home from school. 
 Santiago Peralta, 48, who works at Apollo Radio Dispatch, a car-service business at that corner, said that the prostitutes were a frequent sight, day and night.
 ''I've talked to the police officers who patrol the area many times, but they can't seem to fix it,'' said Mr. Peralta, who has two children, ages 8 and 12, and lives nearby. ''If I could, I would move. For my children. Get them out of the Bronx, you know? Give them a better life.''
 A half-mile away, on a desolate stretch of East 170th Street, Jesus Perez, a retired social worker, vowed to hang on to the four-story apartment building his mother bought in the 1960s, even if he feels at times like a homebound prisoner, consumed with what goes on across the street.
 There, in a squat white building that also houses a church, a social club does its business. The club is identified only by words painted on a door: Workmen Stop. Mr. Perez said that it is the site of illegal drinking and gambling and attracts unsavory characters to his block, which abuts a neighborhood of well-appointed homes. 
 He installed surveillance cameras outside his building's front entrance. The images are transmitted to a TV in front of his bed.
 Mr. Perez and his neighbors have mailed petitions to the Bronx borough president's office. He has written to the community board and the public advocate. He has called 311 and keeps a log of the calls. But despite some raids and arrests, ''the illegal activity goes on,'' Mr. Perez said.
 ''Things have improved in these parts of the Bronx,'' he said. ''But you have to wait a lot longer and work a lot harder to see the improvements.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WAITING: William Stewart, in the Bronx, says he has called 311 about the trash outside a boarded-up house, top, near his home, so far to no avail.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A28)
 Zuleidy Gonzalez, 21, and Jariel, her son, live next to the abandoned house on 168th Street.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A34) CHART: NOT SO GREAT: Morrisania, Claremont, Crotona Park East and parts of Melrose (Bronx Community Board 3)((Source: Citywide Customer Survey)(A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (78%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); COCAINE (68%); PROSTITUTION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



324 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Catholic Plan to Shut Schools Draws Protests

BYLINE: By JENNIFER V. HUGHES

DATELINE: WEST NEW 

 BODY:
YORK
 LIKE many of her friends, Kristy Fernandez has ordered her class ring in anticipation of her 2010 graduation from St. Joseph of the Palisades High School, a parochial school here. 
 But now the 16-year-old junior is not sure what will happen to the topaz-stone band if the school is closed by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Newark, as was announced last month. 
 ''How am I going to look at that ring if we have to go to another school?'' Kristy said at a March 1 protest that drew more than 100 supporters. The group marched about a mile from the school to the parish church, chanting the school mascot's name, ''Bluuuuuee Jays'' and waving signs that said, ''Save our school!'' 
 ''I'm heartbroken,'' Kristy said. ''I don't want to be anything but a Blue Jay.''
 The archdiocese, which covers Bergen, Hudson, Essex and Union Counties, said last month it was closing St. Joseph along with another school. The archdiocese said it is also merging nine elementary schools at the end of the 2009 school year because of low enrollment and financial issues.
 The faltering economy is to blame, said the Rev. Kevin Hanbury, vicar for education and superintendent of schools. At the start of the year, the school lost about 30 students whose parents said they were leaving for financial reasons. 
 ''We have to keep our fingers crossed and keep praying that the bottom does not fall out because these are tough times,'' he said. 
 The closings follow others in New Jersey and nationwide. Last year while 37 new parochial schools opened in booming areas in the United States, 162 were closed or consolidated in other parts of the country, according to the National Catholic Educational Association. In New Jersey's other dioceses in Camden, Trenton, Paterson and Metuchen, six kindergarten-through-eighth-grade schools will close; in Paterson two more will merge.
 At St. Joseph's here, Father Hanbury said the archdiocese told the advisory board in late January that it had to bring in 70 new freshmen and $400,000 to stay afloat. Only about $17,000 was raised and 30 new students registered. An additional $1.5 million would be needed to sustain the school, he said. 
 Father Hanbury said that the school considered either cutting out or asking parents to pay for extracurricular activities, including sports, to save money. But he said school officials knew that would lead to more enrollment losses. 
 St. Joseph had already decided to raise tuition to $9,312 next year, up from this year's $6,700. 
 The other school scheduled to close in the archdiocese, Our Lady of Victories, a 176-student elementary school in Jersey City, faces similar problems. The decision to close Our Lady came from the deanery, a grouping of parishes, and not the archdiocese. The locations of other kindergarten-through-eighth grade schools in the area are better and their buildings are in better shape, Father Hanbury said. 
 Jake Malasig, whose two children are at Our Lady, is still disappointed. He said he will most likely put his eighth-grade daughter and fourth-grade son in the local public school, because he said he worries that if he chooses another Catholic school it too could go under. 
 ''I believe the church has clearly abandoned us,'' he said. 
 The archdiocese also plans to merge Holy Cross in Harrison with St. Stephen in Kearny, calling the new school Mater Dei Academy. It will be at the St. Stephen site.
 Some Holy Cross parents said they wanted to believe their location is the better one. ''It's not a bad school but if everyone goes over it's going to be really tight,'' said Theresa Swint, of Kearny, whose daughter is in third grade at Holy Cross and whose son is entering kindergarten. 
 But the archdiocese's hands are tied: Because the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey paid to replace windows at St. Stephen, that site must be used as a school or else the grant must be repaid.
 The other schools in the Newark Archdiocese, all kindergarten to eighth grade, that will be affected include Holy Trinity and St. Francis of Assisi, both in Hackensack, which will merge to become Padre Pio Academy at the St. Francis site on South Main Street. Students at Sacred Heart in Vailsburg will join those at St. Joseph on Telford Street in East Orange. 
 Also, in Elizabeth, Blessed Sacrament and St. Mary of the Assumption will join with St. Anthony of Padua at that school's Centre Street location with the new name, Our Lady of Guadalupe. 
 As with the closing of Our Lady of Victories, the Elizabeth mergers came at the behest of the deanery. 
 ''If we don't provide a center, all three could end up closing,'' Father Hanbury said. 
 At St. Joseph in West New York, part of the problem with declining enrollment is that rumors were swirling about the school's future around the time when students were asked to commit to next year, said David Hetherington, a member of the school's advisory board. He said he was hopeful more money could be raised. 
 ''The thing we have to look at is that miracles do happen -- look at Hudson Catholic,'' said Mr. Hetherington, a 1970 graduate and a development director at St. Joseph.
 Last year, Hudson Catholic High School was threatened with closing but supporters raised $400,000 in cash and won pledges for $1 million more in several weeks. The school, which now accepts girls, has an incoming freshman class of 140 for September 2009. There were 60 freshmen this school year. 
 Guy Bertola, a St. Joseph physical education teacher and football and softball coach, said that if the school closed he was convinced he would find another job but that he was worried about older teachers. He said the protests are important even if they don't work. 
 ''Not to do anything would be even worse,'' he said. 
 Jackelyn Florez, whose son is a junior, refuses to consider alternatives for his senior year. 
 ''We don't plan on closing this school,'' she said at the protest rally. ''We are going to work hard and we are going to prove to them the Blue Jays will fight together as a family and we will bring this school back to where it was and where it should be.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RALLY: Supporters of St. Joseph of the Palisades High School gather to protest the announced closing of the school.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
 OPPOSED: Left to right, Sofia Chavez, Alyson Montalvo and Kristy Fernandez in St. Joseph of the Palisades Church, where their protest continued against the announced closing of the high school.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (53%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



325 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Speak, Oh Muse, of Fallen 401(k)s and Malignant Mortgages

 BODY:
Last week, nytimes.com invited readers to submit original verse about the economic downturn. About 100 readers responded. Here's a sampling.
Worked in iron
 Worked in steel
 Never worried 
 'bout my next meal
 Trusted bankers
 With my 401k
 It was there yesterday
 Gone today
 Greenspan said ''Forget fixed rate''
 Got an ARM
 Now it's too late
 While I lose my house, my job, my pension
 My taxes bail out bankers
 (It's worth a mention)
 PETER PATTEN
 Melville, N.Y.
 I miss the commute
 the most and the classroom chalk
 I miss my house too.
 SUSAN SULLIVAN
 St. Louis
 Those of us who've lost it all,
 Thought not about the cost at all.
 Those of us who are content,
 Gave thought to every single cent.
 JOHN DUVALL
 Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
 Awake too late
 It took 20 years to
 Recognize
 I inhabit a den of thieves.
 There is no DNA
 For fiscal rape
 Hence they shall escape.
 They stole my graying years.
 PAUL M. STAFFORD
 Pasadena, Calif.
 The new recession
 when rich folks must shop Costco
 to save on Chanel.
 MAYA LELAND
 Kaneohe, Hawaii
 It's 2009 and still they show women
 with long, open legs on high heels
 next to the car they want me to buy.
 I have never known such a dream-girl,
 no surprise here, as I've never owned
 the right wheels, even though I am sure
 I would enjoy it all very much for a while.
 My own car is more likely to be seen
 above an oily mechanic, and
 my woman, she wears socks in bed,
 sometimes two pairs in the winter.
 GREGOIRE VION
 Santz Cruz, Calif.
 I worked 50 years since I was 16
 Saw visions ahead of the American dream
 Saved and I saved, no splurges in sight
 Bought an apt at the market's height
 Maxed my IRA and 401 too
 Put it in blue chips, not CDOs like you
 I dreamed of Paris and Venice and Rome
 But I'll be staying a lot closer to home
 While all the bankers enjoyed their spree
 Financed by naive ones like you and like me
 BARBARA ROSTON
 New York, N.Y.
 OK
 401K
 40.1K
 4.01K
 .401K
 .0401K
 NOT OK
 GERALD DUFFY
 Portsmouth, N.H.
 Last weekend
 i wanted to buy something
 spend a grand or two.
 But then I remembered what the tv said
 about the future
 about tomorrow
 about how I may not have a job.
 So I sat by the window
 and watched
 the snow fall instead.
 THOMAS BERNARD MARBLO
 Charlotte, N.C. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOB WOUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (67%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



326 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES FIFTH AVENUE AND 34TH STREET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Stanford White's Backdrop for the Panic of 1907

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE continuing banking debacle presents some parallels with the sad case of Charles Tracy Barney, who in the Panic of 1907 lost control of the Knickerbocker Trust Company, which shut down to his disgrace. And just as Mr. Barney's tragedy was playing out, the seeds were sown for the mutilation of his superb 1903 bank at Fifth Avenue and 34th Street, designed by Stanford White. 
 Mr. Barney was well connected in social and business circles when he became president of Knickerbocker Trust in 1897. In the next 10 years the bank's deposits grew to $61 million from $10 million, and in 1901 Barney retained McKim, Mead & White to design a 14-story bank and office building at the northwest corner of 34th Street and Fifth Avenue, as important a location as is 57th and Fifth today. 
 For reasons unknown, Mr. Barney scaled the project back to three stories -- but oh, what stories! Stanford White created one of the most spectacular banks in New York, a sumptuous Corinthian-columned temple of Vermont marble on the outside and Norway marble inside the high banking room. 
 Just before it was completed in 1903, the city brought suit to scale back Mr. Barney's temple, noting that its columns, cornices and steps extended out onto the public sidewalks by as much as 15 feet. Such encroachments had long been commonplace and even, at least on Fifth Avenue, expressly permitted. But pressure was building to widen Fifth for the increasing glut of vehicles. 
 The Department of Buildings had approved the project every step of the way, but litigation persisted for years amid sympathy for the bank and its willingness to build a civic ornament. In November 1906, The Real Estate Record and Guide predicted that surely ''special arrangements'' for ''really beautiful buildings'' could be made. 
 The year 1907 saw an unsettled, declining stock market, a budget crisis in New York City, continued economic fallout from the San Francisco earthquake the year before, and other financial problems. In October, several banks connected with Charles W. Morse and F. Augustus Heinze failed. 
 Both men were held in low regard by many in the financial community. Indeed, Mr. Morse was convicted for bank fraud in 1910 in an unrelated case and, according to ''The Panic of 1907'' by Robert F. Bruner and Sean D. Carr (Wiley, 2007), while in prison met Charles Ponzi, who developed the infamous pyramid scheme. 
 When it became known that Mr. Morse and Mr. Heinze were associated in some projects with Mr. Barney, he was obliged to resign from the bank he had helped create on Monday, Oct. 21. 
 But in that nervous climate, rubbing shoulders with such men was enough to precipitate a run on the Knickerbocker. On Tuesday, Oct. 22, so many depositors showed up that the police were called in to keep order.
 Lines wound around each other in giant spirals in the great marble banking room before snaking out the door. Men and women stood in separate lines -- women usually conducted their business in a separate office. The bank had substantial assets, but most were not liquid, and it could pay out only $8 million. The Knickerbocker Trust Company closed that day at 12:35 p.m., shutting out hundreds of unsatisfied depositors. 
 In December, The American Review of Reviews said that the problem had largely been caused by the ''unreasoning alarm of women depositors'' and that the bank's failure created ''a veritable panic on a continental scale.'' 
 The financier J. P. Morgan stepped in and organized the financial community to save most of the other faltering institutions, often by a hairbreadth. But he had come late into the Knickerbocker crisis, and considered it too weak to save. 
 The Panic of 1907 dissipated before the year was up, although some institutions never got back on track. It all came too late for Mr. Barney, who on Nov. 14, at the age of 56, shot himself. He lived for four hours. 
 Two days after the suicide, The American Architect commented coldly that the low-rise Knickerbocker bank, ''so much in fashion just now, is really nothing so much as an advertisement,'' and that ''when disaster comes, a well-rented skyscraper is a more valuable asset.'' 
 In March 1908, Knickerbocker Trust reopened, and The New York Tribune reported that all depositors received their money in full. That October, The New York Times said that almost every other bank had paid off fully, the recovery essentially complete, along with the stock market. For instance, U.S. Steel had been trading early in 1907 at 50 3/8, and fell to 21 7/8 after the crash. But a year later, it was back to 47 1/2. 
 The original Knickerbocker Trust building survived until 1921, according to an account in The Times. The little bank then sprouted a 10-floor enlargement, also designed by McKim, Mead & White. The vertical addition sheared off the columns and other projecting ornaments, but left the pilasters along with much of the bank's original character, including the banking hall. In 1958 the lower floors, occupied by the Bowery Savings Bank, were completely modernized, becoming sheer walls of limestone.
 The Panic of 1907 remains as a famous cautionary tale, but nothing remains of Charles Barney's magnificent white marble vision. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE LOOK OF MONEY: The Knickerbocker Trust Company and its banking room, left, about 1904. Above, the bank building with the 1921 enlargement, in 1952. Above right, the building as it looks today. Right, the bank's builder, Charles Tracy Barney, around 1905. He shot himself after the bank failed in the Panic of 1907.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MCKIM, MEAD & WHITE/OFFICE FOR METROPOLITAN HISTORY)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY OFFICE FOR METROPOLITAN HISTORY)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KONRAD FIEDLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ARCHITECTURE MAGAZINE/OFFICE FOR METROPOLITAN HISTORY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY REVIEW OF REVIEWS/OFFICE FOR METROPOLITAN HISTORY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (75%); LITIGATION (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (65%); PONZI SCHEMES (64%); APPROVALS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



327 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: A Rental Frontier In New Jersey

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: Bayonne, N.J. 

 BODY:
 HERE on a peninsula jutting into the Hudson River, with a landscape so stark it served ably as a set for the 2005 remake of ''War of the Worlds,'' the outpost of a new civilization is being created. The economy permitting, it will take the form of rental apartments.
 Surrounded by giant piles of dirt and deep cuts for new roads, and under the steely gaze of enormous insect-like cranes on the nearby docks, the 544-unit Alexan at Bayonne Bay is rising steadily. In fact, leasing for the first 100 units is supposed to start in June, according to its developer, Trammell Crow. 
 The recession has stalled other companies' approved projects on the peninsula, and caused one player to drop out, Bayonne city officials say. But Trammell has proceeded and appears confident of success.
 ''We went into this with our eyes wide open,'' said Richard Murphy, a managing director of Trammell Crow in Morristown. ''We know that development on the Bayonne peninsula will be an ongoing process, but we think we can create a fantastic environment for our residents.''
 Rental rates for the one- to three-bedroom units at Alexan have not been established, according to Mr. Murphy, but he said that they would be much lower than those in Manhattan, Hoboken and Jersey City and that a 10,000-square-foot clubhouse and parking facilities would open at the same time as the first apartments.
 In addition, a June start-up is envisioned for shuttle service to the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail line stop just inland of the peninsula -- connecting to PATH train service to Manhattan -- and also limited ferry service to Manhattan from the point of the peninsula.
 The rental units will be the first residential construction at what is now called the Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor, a 297-acre former military ocean terminal just south of another, similar-size peninsula devoted to maritime industrial business. 
 The military operation was shut down and the land ceded to the town for redevelopment in 1999. Since then, an ambitious plan has been adopted, establishing five large parcels that are to sustain different types of development: 6,700 housing units, as well as office space, retail, hotel/convention facilities and a permanent dock for the Royal Caribbean cruise line, which already operates there.
 John P. Clarke, a partner with the Trenton architecture firm Clarke Canton Hinton, which wrote the master plan for redevelopment three years ago, said that even before the economy froze up, ''the plan was expected to take 10 to 15 years to realize.'' 
 ''The scale is extremely massive,'' he said. ''For example, Battery Park City, which was 20 years in the planning, by the way, is 97 acres. This is around three times that size.''
 Right now, the harbor peninsula has the curious aura of a place where dreams and desolation commingle. 
 The Alexan is framed out to its full four-story height -- and just south, across the Bayonne Bay channel, the lighthouse tower on the clubhouse at the private Bayonne Golf Club stands tall on a grassy hill.
 But elsewhere on the peninsula, only a few spare, squat military structures are left -- after the base was razed to make way for the new project, and enough fill was dumped in to raise the surface of the entire land mass out of a 100-year-old flood plain.
 At the point of the peninsula stands a gift from Russia to the New York metropolitan region: a 100-foot-tall ''teardrop'' 9/11 memorial sculpture, now surrounded by a new landscaped park. 
 Now that the channel between the peninsulas has been dredged, the Explorer of the Seas, Royal Caribbean's largest cruise ship, glides in and lends its grandeur for a time between passages. But elsewhere along the east-west length of the peninsula there is mainly earth -- vast expanses and impressive piles of dirt with tractors perched on them. 
 ''The first people who move there will have to possess a pioneering spirit,'' Mr. Clarke said. 
 Suzanne Mack, the chief planner at the local redevelopment authority, echoed that view, adding, ''They will have to have excellent forward-thinking skills, and an ability to appreciate the rough beauty of what is here now.'' Ms. Mack's office is on the peninsula, in a small concrete building that once served as a military ''hotel.''
 Mr. Murphy of Trammell Crow said the prospective renters his company had in mind did not include families with children. ''Young professionals, looking for a cheaper alternative to Manhattan with a good commute time,'' he said. ''That's who we think our first settlers will be.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trammell Crow is proceeding with its part of a redevelopment plan in Bayonne, N.J. Its rental units, left, will be the first residential piece of the 297-acre Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor (rendering at top). The site is also home to a 9/11 memorial, a gift from Russia.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); FERRIES (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); CITIES (69%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); CRUISES (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%)

COMPANY: TRAMMELL CROW CO (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



328 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Grades Fixed: An Allegation Shocks No One

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: FORT LEE, N.J. 

 BODY:
 Take out the town name from the newspaper masthead and the March 6 Fort Lee Suburbanite has a generic air of inevitability: ''Grades Were Changed for College,'' the headline reads. ''Superintendent Vows Full Investigation; Happened for 6 Years.''
 After all, the banks and brokerages have had to restate their earnings. Baseball statistics have to be retrofitted either with or without steroids. What's the surprise in a high school having to figure out how many transcripts sent to colleges were given a happy tweak to remove a nasty C or turn a B into an A? 
 They're still getting to the bottom of what happened at Fort Lee High School, just over the George Washington Bridge from New York City, where dozens of college applicants, apparently without ever knowing it, have been given a helpful little nudge over the years in the admissions demolition derby.
 Does anything this blatant go on very often? Not likely, and high school counselors say it is a shocking abuse of relationships based on trust. But if you want to figure out why the mess in Fort Lee is about more than the mess in Fort Lee, you just have to go to the school district's Web site.
 No, not the update from Superintendent Raymond Bandlow. When the irregularities became public, the district suspended the principal, Jay Berman, pending a review. His lawyer insisted he knew nothing about the tampering. Many parents spoke in his defense at a board meeting that drew 300 people on Wednesday. On Friday, the district also suspended a longtime guidance counselor, Judith Meller.
 Dr. Bandlow, who took over in August, said the new guidance director, who arrived in November, first suspected irregularities two weeks ago. (The issue, it turned out, wasn't entirely new. The Record of Bergen County reported that the local police, suspecting students, investigated possible tampering in 2007, but could not find a culprit.)
 ''At the meeting, some people said, 'Why are you bringing this up now, when my college acceptance is being considered at this moment?' '' Dr. Bandlow said. ''The answer is, we are dealing with it now because this is when we became aware of it. We're going to make this public; we're not going to cover it up, and we're going to hold the people who are responsible accountable.'' Most parents have since been supportive, he said.
 But the real telltale heart is elsewhere on the Web site. ''Graduating Class of 2007 Makes Us Proud,'' it reads. ''The graduating class of 2007 surpassed our wildest expectations with the acceptance of students to 5 Ivies and 35 of the top 50 top-tier colleges in the nation.'' And seniors won more than $2 million in scholarships as well! 
 Which, of course, is the name of the game. Dr. Bandlow indicated that part of the reason for the false reports wasn't to help the students -- it was to enhance the school's reputation. And why not? In many hypercompetitive school districts (and you know who you are), the real final report card is how seniors fare in getting into top colleges.
 The district found six altered transcripts for current seniors. It plans to immediately inform colleges when there's anything amiss -- and contact others on behalf of any students who want to assure colleges that their applications are as advertised.
 OF course, there's much that's murkier than doctored transcripts in one district. Does anyone think that grade inflation (one study found high school grades increasing by about a quarter-point on the scale from 0 to 4 between 1991 and 2003) is all about how much more accomplished students are? 
 Maybe the Fort Lee situation could have happened anywhere. The district, with a high percentage of immigrants, particularly Asians, might not be as famously competitive as some others. But it's not exactly startling that it happened in our general environs, ground zero for the admissions hysteria.
 Bob Bardwell, a vice president with the American School Counselor Association and director of guidance at Monson High School in Monson, Mass., said the degree of admissions hysteria depends on where you live.
 In his district, he said, the annual report on seniors' destinations is just another bit of year-end accounting; almost no one applies for early decision; you get zero points on any social meter for where your kid goes to school; and there's no arms race of multiple Advanced Placement courses and resumes stuffed with endless activities.
 ''I couldn't work in an environment like that,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); STEROIDS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); WEB SITES (65%); LAWYERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



329 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Gossip Boy, But Just For a Day

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
GORE VIDAL, it is said, advised us never to pass up a chance to have sex or appear on television. Many have learned through brutal experience the spectacular unwisdom of the first admonition. I now have personal knowledge of the folly of the second.
 I am making a brief cameo appearance on the CW series ''Gossip Girl'' this month. But I won't be able to see it, I'm afraid. I will be catching a flight to foreign parts. I'm thinking Godthab, Greenland.
 You don't know Godthab? It's that blip at the tip of that giant iceberg of a country that appears on the electronic in-flight map as you wing back from London to New York. I've always been curious about Godthab -- Greenland's capital, in fact, also known as Nuuk -- but my impromptu trip is not mere tourism. Godthab seems like the kind of place where television options would be limited, and thus ''Gossip Girl'' would be absolutely unknown. 
 The story is as follows. Some months ago a note popped into my e-mail inbox with an intriguing subject line: ''Gossip Girl/Television cameo.'' Human vanity being what it is, I opened and read an invitation to appear as myself on that glossy television series about naughty doings at a fancy-schmancy private school in Manhattan.
 I have no pretensions to competence as a performer, no buried ambition to toss aside the critical hat and enter the messy scrum of the acting world. If you read a newspaper, you probably know that the newspaper business is not in the pink these days. Still, visions of a lucrative new career making cameo appearances -- a festive, boozy lunch with the Real Housewives of New York City? an appearance as Friend of Transgendered Murder Victim on ''Law and Order: SVU''? -- did not dance through my mind.
 In fact I share the general -- and altogether respectable -- horror of speaking before audiences of any kind. So my instinct was to decline, politely. But what would my nieces Carmen and Catrina say? Scarier still would be the affronted reaction of my gay friends addicted to the show. 
 While I would never claim much range as a performer, I was fairly confident that the role of self would fall securely within it. Also, as someone who makes a living assessing the achievements of people who have the courage to risk making fools of themselves every day -- to be a good actor is to be fearless about emotional self-exposure -- I knew it would be cowardly to say no. 
 And then there's that whole vanity thing. 
 Three days later I found myself being picked up at my door for my day of shooting at a theater on Grand Street on the Lower East Side. I had received my sides -- that's actor talk for script pages -- the day before. I was given three lines in a scene set backstage after a high-school theater performance.
 Instantly dashed were my fantasies of delivering some Addison DeWitt-type acerbities, good-naturedly playing into the popular notion of the critic as a viper who cannot open his mouth without savaging somebody or something. The lines I was given were more anodyne. I briefly considered lodging a gentle protest but figured it would be a little immodest to request that my lines -- all three of them -- be guest-written by the staff of ''30 Rock.'' 
 The first shock, after the small frisson of being chauffeured to the set (it was a van, but still), came when I discovered I would be given my own trailer for the half-day or so of shooting. My name was even on the door (scribbled on a bit of blue tape, but still). That's when things began to turn slowly and inexorably wrong. 
 Yes, I blame the trailer. 
 As I was ushered to wardrobe (thumbs up for the outfit I'd brought) and hair (thumbs up for obvious lack thereof), the insidious sensation of trailerworthiness began quietly to unsettle my mind. If my participation was deemed sufficiently important to warrant a trailer (nothing too glam and the plumbing was wonky, but still), then those three lines must be mighty significant.
 Had I perhaps been too cavalier about memorizing them? Would it not have been wise to rehearse before an audience other than my cat? (Jane seemed none too impressed, but then cats are famously unimpressed creatures.) While the Teamsters tinkered with the plumbing, I ran through my bits of dialogue over and over, the paper becoming moist and flimsy in my sweating hands. (The Teamsters also seemed unimpressed, but I believe that is characteristic too.)
 By the time I was led to the set for my big scene, I had reached a pitch of anxiety that I had never experienced, and hope never to again. Rather than appear before the cameras, I would have gladly faced a firing squad. Or worse, a ravening mob made up of every actor, author or director I had ever panned. 
 Arriving on the backstage set where I would perform, I was introduced to the actor, Harmon Walsh, to whom I would be speaking my lines. A new source of anxiety, possibly more unhinging than the trailer. 
 It should have occurred to me, I know, that appearing on ''Gossip Girl'' would probably mean mixing among the more god- and goddesslike of mortals. I am not a regular watcher of the show, but I know enough to know it's stocked with young beauties of both sexes. 
 And it's not just that Mr. Walsh, while not a regular on the show, was handsome enough to be one. That might have been bearable. But my mark -- that's more actor speak for where you're supposed to stand -- was two inches away from him, or so it seemed. Before I could get comfortable with this instant intimacy and banish from my mind despairing thoughts about pores and plans for teeth-whitening processes, I was delivering my lines.
 Or rather attempting to. The first take went O.K. But afterward the script supervisor gently pointed out that I'd left out an adverb. This had been done on purpose -- once a critic, always a critic -- but I agreed to read it again as written. Bad idea. I kept tripping up on this, my third and most challenging line, of two dozen or so words. The question of pores now returned to the front of the brain as they began spritzing flop sweat. 
 It's not that I couldn't infuse the line with enough emotive substance to please a Stanislavski. No, I'm afraid the words I had been relentlessly drilling for the past 24 hours -- to the cat, to the refrigerator, to empty elevators and to the brisk air of Madison Square Park -- wouldn't come at all.
 The next few minutes have been erased from my memory, presumably by an instinctive reaction akin to that which makes victims of trauma unable to recall the event itself. But I would not be surprised to be told that instead of the dialogue from the script, I began spouting assorted lyrics from ''West Side Story,'' vestigial bits of a seventh-grade book report, directions from the back of a shampoo bottle or a recipe for ginger snaps. I am pretty confident that at no point did the two dozen words of that fatal sentence emerge in the proper order.
 Like most of life's ordeals -- junior high, oral surgery, recessions (one prays), the occasional American presidency -- my stint in the television spotlight eventually came to an end. I was even given a friendly send-off, in the form of warm applause by the cast and crew, perhaps because they were relieved to get back to work with professionals.
 And I have to admit: Despite the ultimate horror of those few minutes, the day as a whole was rather enjoyable. From the episode's director, Norman Buckley (Betty's brother, interestingly), to the wardrobe and makeup people to the friendly extra who commiserated with me on my awkward debut as I left the set, everyone involved was friendly, professional and efficient. For all the hubbub of film and television work, it seemed an exciting way to spend your days.
 Obviously a career before the cameras is not an option. The invitation to join the Screen Actors Guild has been ceremonially shredded. But maybe there are other opportunities. Remind me what a gaffer does again? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The critic's short-term colleagues: the young cast of the CW series ''Gossip Girl,'' focused on a private school in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW ECCLES/CW) (pg.AR1)
 Professionals on the job: the actors Leighton Meester and Penn Badgley, above, and Blake Lively, below left, who are given more than a few lines on ''Gossip Girl.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIOVANNI RUFINO/CW) (pg.AR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); MURDER (73%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GREENLAND (92%)

TITLE: Gossip Girl (TV Program); Gossip Girl (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



330 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 5069 words

HEADLINE: Share My Ride

BYLINE: By MARK LEVINE. 
Mark Levine teaches at the Iowa Writers' Workshop.

 BODY:
MY NEIGHBOR JOE EMBRACED THE ZEITGEIST, or was embraced by it, shortly before Thanksgiving a couple of years ago when he decided to bid adieu to his S.U.V., a two-and-a-half ton specimen that was a pain to park, got only slightly better mileage than a cement mixer and bore a brand name that meant to evoke, through misspelling, a famously resilient tribe of Berber-speaking desert nomads. Joe replaced the car, more or less, with nothing, or rather, with an Idea, which he carried around in his wallet on a plastic card, lawn-green, embedded with a computer chip and prominently imprinted with a playfully mellow looking ''Z,'' for Zipcar -- an upstart company bent on altering the primal bond between Americans and their vehicles. 
 Joe, who lives upstairs from me in a converted warehouse on a notably unleafy block of Park Slope, Brooklyn, is someone a love-struck marketer might regard as both demographically and ''psychographically'' ripe -- endowed, that is, with both the means and the mind-set to wade fearlessly into the waters of certain Next Big Things. He is 36, works in an advertising-related field, owns his business, dresses like a skateboarder, was an early adopter of the iPhone and of Obama and can be found outside our building on mild evenings chasing a soccer ball with his two young sons. Joe takes an active interest in picking up stray garbage and organizing the recycling bins and would be glad to know, incidentally, if there's anything he can do in his spare time to help forestall global environmental cataclysm. Dumping his car suited his profile. It was also a practical choice. The lease was expiring, and Joe's monthly tab, with insurance, approached a thousand dollars. That didn't include the cost of gas, which had risen, in the last months of 2007, to more than $3 per gallon. Then, too, there were the never-ending parking woes. Joe had chosen not to pay $300 a month to rent space in a local garage, but he wondered whether that was a net positive, given the mental and physical toll exacted by searching for on-street parking.
 Despite the fact that Joe took the subway to work and lived within walking distance of plenty of grocers, restaurants, drugstores and dry cleaners, going carless wasn't a simple choice. Having one had become a habit, and Joe had no particular desire to renounce cars altogether. He liked feeling he could hit the road at a moment's notice if he so desired. There would always be times he needed a car, and there would be times -- when, for instance, a child was sick -- that knowing one was available provided peace of mind.
 What to do, then, Joe? Buy? Lease? Rent? This is where the zeitgeist spoke up. Joe decided to share.
 SHARING IS HARD, as any parent who has knelt at the edge of the sandbox, struggling to contend with his 3-year-old child's territoriality, knows. Zipcar, however, exuberantly markets the notion that life is better without ownership -- car ownership, at least. Zipcar doesn't tell people not to drive; it urges them not to own. It's such a brazen conceit that it would seem positively communist if Zipcar weren't run by a bunch of fervent free marketers. Zipcar's predicate is that sharing is to ownership what the iPod is to the eight-track, what the solar panel is to the coal mine. Sharing is clean, crisp, urbane, postmodern; owning is dull, selfish, timid, backward. In Zipcar's view, sharing is big business too -- bigger, potentially, than anyone can fathom. Its claim is that the winners in the new economy will be those who crack the puzzle posed by scarce resources. (The company, which is barely a decade old, almost seems to have been founded with 2009 in mind.) At the moment, its 275,000 members in the U.S., Canada and London share 5,500 cars. But Zipcar, which has been doubling its ranks annually for much of its existence, sees many more prospective converts, an environmentally aware, cost-conscious, Internet-bred generation of urbanites who have come of age sharing information (Wikipedia), music (Napster), software (BitTorrent), videos (YouTube), entertainment (Netflix) and the excruciating minutiae of daily life (anyblog.com). All this virtual sharing may turn out to be good training too: Zipcar does without storefronts or agents. An online application costs $25 and takes minutes to complete. Haven't been in a high-speed chase lately? There's a 90 percent chance that Zipcar will welcome you into its fold right away. Annual dues start at $50. Your Zipcard will arrive in the mail in a day or two. Zipcars are parked mostly in small clusters -- between 2 and 20 -- in neighborhood garages, shoulder to shoulder with the owned and leased cars of the unenlightened. There are 1,300 Zipcars in the New York area, where four and a half million people live within a 10-minute walk of one. Think of it as a cab service in which you drive yourself. To hail one, you go online, find the nearest Zipcar location and decide which of the available cars appeals to your fancy. Honda, Toyota, Mazda, Volkswagen and Volvo are the Zipcar standard-bearers, the Mini Cooper its signature ride. In New York, a Civic goes for $13 an hour on the weekend, a Mini for $15, a BMW for $17. Insurance and gas are included.
 At the appointed hour, you approach your Zipcar, which has been notified wirelessly of your arrival. You wave your Zipcard in front of a reader inside the windshield and are pleased to be recognized. The car unlocks. Much to your initial horror, there is the key freely available inside the car. (Gotcha, car thieves: the ignition will not engage unless the scanner has been satisfied that you are the authorized driver.) Now you may get your first reminder that you are sharing. The car will not smell like a vat of cleaning fluid, and its seats are not likely to be marked with vacuum tracks. But members agree not to smoke, let their dogs loose or leave their half-eaten cheeseburgers in the car. (Violators can be fined $25 or more; repeat offenders risk expulsion.) The self-policing seems to work. Zipcars, usually refreshed by roaming cleaning crews once a week, are typically reported to be a good deal tidier than most family cars.
 Then you drive. You go to Ikea in Red Hook, Costco in Sunset Park, Grandma's in Bay Ridge and a baby shower on Staten Island. When you're done, you return your car to the place you found it. (All Zipcar rentals are round-trip.) A few hours later, you get a friendly e-mail message regarding your journey. It links you to a statement of charges that have been applied to your credit card. It says thank you.
 Now you're one of them, part of both a burgeoning cult and a bright business story in a grim time. And yet the company's success has driven it into a competitive vise. On one side: a growing number of nonprofit car-sharing companies worried about the corrupting influence of the profit motive; on the other, a corporate behemoth, Hertz, which has been drawn into the car-sharing fray and whose goal is surely to dominate -- not share -- the market.
 THE BUSINESS OF AMERICAN CAR SHARING originated in a bathtub in the Pacific Northwest some 15 years ago. Dave Brook, an energy-conservation agent for Oregon State University, was examining the advantages of low-flow shower heads for a local utility. During the course of the project, Brook realized that while homeowners had abundant opportunities and incentives to cut their energy use -- by adding insulation, for instance -- as soon as they left the house and slid behind the wheel of a car, they had much less control over their ability to save fuel and reduce pollution. The best-intentioned driver could not modify his engine to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions. Drivers could, it was true, swap an old reliable car for a model with better mileage, but that was a major investment with few short-term economic benefits. It was theoretically possible, too, to do without a car altogether. But even in a counterculturally inclined city like Portland, which had good public transportation, cars were needed to get to places that were out of reach by foot, bike or bus.
 Brook knew that in Europe there had been a number of longstanding efforts, one even dating back to the late 1940s, to provide access to what were, essentially, shared community vehicles. For an environmentalist, the car-sharing calculus was irresistible. Sharing eliminated the fixed costs of private car ownership -- the upfront purchase price or the monthly payment, as well as the costs of parking, insurance, maintenance and depreciation. (In 2008, AAA figured the typical cost of owning and driving a midsize sedan to be more than $8,000 per year.) High fixed costs encourage lots of driving; since the car is being paid for, it might as well be used. Hence the paradigmatically wasteful three-block trip to the store for a quart of milk, the sort of carbon blast that few car owners fail to indulge at one time or another. Car sharing, by contrast, is a pay-per-use system, which has the effect of significantly altering driving behavior. Evidence suggests that sharers drive from a quarter to half as much as owners -- a staggering reduction in energy consumption. Not only do they drive less frequently, but they also drive differently. They ''chain'' their trips, making multiple stops along the shortest route in order to drive most efficiently. They save money, do better by the environment and contribute less to congestion. Car sharing also has an appealing communal spirit. Brook likened it to membership in a fitness club. A gym provides its members with a range of equipment that no one member would be able to buy, house and maintain on his own. It is essentially a self-service business, but it manages to foster enough fellow-feeling that unselfish behavior -- wiping down machines, returning weights to racks, keeping locker rooms clean -- becomes second nature.
 In March 1998, Brook tapped his retirement accounts to start up CarSharing Portland, Inc., with a fleet of four Dodge Neons. He looked at it as a social experiment, but he also thought it was a promising business opportunity. Membership required a refundable $250 security deposit, which granted access to mechanical lockboxes containing keys and a log for recording mileage and trip length. Using the cars cost $2 per hour and 40 cents per mile. By 2000, the company had grown to two dozen cars, including minivans, a pickup truck and a pair of the earliest hybrid vehicles on the market. The logistical challenges of parking, insuring and keeping the fleet running were an ongoing headache, but by some measures it was worth it: when Brook surveyed his members, he learned that a quarter of them got rid of their cars after joining, and that an equal number had shelved plans to buy vehicles. The sharers said they were driving less than before, walking more and taking mass transit more often. Brook could claim to have given rise to a genuine grass-roots success story. There was one problem, though. In 2000, the company, into which Brook and his wife had poured more than $100,000 of their own cash, reportedly had revenues of $200,000 but losses of $50,000. The business, born out of a vision of sustainability, was unsustainable. In 2001, Brook sold it to Flexcar, a car-sharing outfit with national aspirations that opened in Seattle two years after CarSharing Portland. Zipcar absorbed Flexcar in 2007 and now operates 215 cars in Portland. Brook received what he says is a token stake in the company. Not long ago, he rented one of its pickup trucks.
 ZIPCAR CAN TRACE ITS BEGINNINGS to September 1999, at a cafe in Cambridge, Mass., when a 42-year-old mother of three named Robin Chase learned about car sharing from a friend, Antje Danielson, who had just returned from a trip to Berlin. Car sharing, Chase realized, could be ''a highly scalable, world-domination, hugely profitable business.''
 Chase hated driving. ''I've been in many accidents that resulted in dead people -- at least five,'' she told me. After graduating from Wellesley College in 1980, she worked in public health, on international projects that focused on things like vaccination and family planning. After seeing that the people running these projects were ill equipped to handle financial and operational issues, she went back to school at M.I.T. for an M.B.A. By 1999, she was looking to start her own business when Danielson told her about car sharing. They shook hands over the table and decided to start a company. Car sharing, Chase thought, was an ideal way ''to harness the engine of self-interest'' for the good of all. She had no desire to create the car-sharing equivalent of a community garden; she wanted to build the Whole Foods of the industry. To Chase, the indisputable social and environmental benefits of car sharing weren't worth much if the idea remained the preserve of a relative handful of committed initiates. ''I decided to do everything I could to make it huge,'' she says.
 Chase wrote a business plan and raised $1.3 million from a few small venture funds, some ''angel'' investors and family and friends. Lockboxes and log books were too quaint for what she had in mind. She hired programmers to create a Web-based reservation, billing and communications system that would keep the company's costs down, appeal to a tech-minded constituency and pave the way for rapid growth. Chase, who had little patience for the earnestness of environmentalists with whom she was otherwise philosophically in step, sold her product on the basis of convenience, savings and lifestyle. She and Danielson came up with a list of five potential names for the company, and Chase walked around Boston asking people on the street for their reactions. ''Antje really wanted to do 'Wheelshare,' '' she says, ''but that seemed too close to 'Wheelchair.' Then we tried 'U.S. Carshare.' That was how I learned that 40 percent of the people I talked to had an extremely negative reaction to the word 'sharing.' The word makes people nervous. They feel they're being scolded or told to wait their turn. At that point I banned my staff from using the phrase 'car sharing.' Do we call hotels 'bed sharing'? That's way too intimate. Do we call bowling 'shoe sharing'? Who would want to bowl?'' Chase landed on the name Zipcar, accompanied by the slogan ''Wheels When You Want Them.'' To some environmentalists, it was anathema to make driving seem fun. Chase was unconcerned. ''The whole game at Zipcar was to get people to join so that they would sell their car or not buy one. I used to joke that I would have put a Hummer in the fleet if it would get people to join.''
 Hummers weren't required. The first cars that Chase deployed around Cambridge were lime-green VW Beetles, their passenger doors bearing the company's whimsical logo. ''I wanted people to feel that they were the smart ones,'' she says, ''the cool, hip, urban insiders who figured out that to live in a city and to own a car was stupid.'' Before long, reports started filtering in that Zipcar drivers were greeting one another with conspiratorial waves as they passed on the road. Chase's savviest move was to tap into her constituency's desire for an old-fashioned sense of community. Members started referring to themselves as Zipsters. Chase threw potluck parties for them, mixers, a swim at Walden Pond. It didn't matter that only a few people showed up: simply knowing that such events were taking place seemed to burnish the Zipster identity. Customers were encouraged to come up with quirky names for each Zipcar; naming the cars, Chase found, personalized them and encouraged members to treat them gently. (''Zipcars Live Here'' say the signs now at some garages.) ''I wanted Zipcar to feel like a personal, deep-in-your-local-community company,'' Chase says. ''I wanted people to know we supported their local theater and their kids' soccer games. We weren't a generic national brand. We were a dramatic, real community. An evangelical community.''
 For three years, Chase made the business go by force of personality, working a hundred hours a week, soliciting media coverage to compensate for a paltry marketing budget and doing constant battle with local officials over the intricacies of parking, taxes and zoning. In 2001 she took Zipcar to Washington, and in early 2002 to New York. The company, Chase says, was ''going gangbusters.'' That summer, though, an investor who pledged $5 million suddenly pulled out -- after Chase had already spent most of the company's money in expectation of the new financing. Her board was furious. In February 2003, she was forced out. She describes her departure only in pained, murky tones. It's a case, she suggests, of being undermined by the very forces she hoped to marshal for the company's -- and society's -- benefit. ''I'm gleeful about the engine of capitalism, but it has some very negative, destructive aspects,'' she says. ''We see it around us now: extreme greed. Shocking arrogance.'' Chase has gone on to become something of an avant-garde business guru. She recently started a company, GoLoco.org, that uses social networking to facilitate car pooling. Is there money in it? ''In this country, now -- no,'' she says. ''In the future, yes. I'm too early.''
 ''WE WERE IN CRISIS WHEN I ARRIVED,'' Scott Griffith, the C.E.O. of Zipcar, told me when we met recently at the company's headquarters, in Cambridge. ''The company was close to missing payroll. There wasn't a sense that financial performance was important. Success was defined as 'change the world,' but we were losing more money on the bottom line than we were making on the top line, with no real sense of how it was ever going to work. I was the outsider who was brought in to fix a big problem, and the people who had been here from the beginning had been told they had failed.'' Griffith, who worked at Hughes Aircraft and Boeing before taking the helm at two tech-based start-ups -- one tanked, one was sold to the data giant ChoicePoint for a handsome sum -- arrived at Zipcar speaking the businessman's argot without hesitation or apology. ''I really wanted to R.I.P. Zipcar 1.0,'' he said. ''I wasn't opposed to the founder's mission, but you only get to change the world if you build a big company and make money. We had to focus on the efficiency of capital.''
 Zipcar had some 130 cars and 5,000 members when Griffith took over from Chase. He knew it would have to operate on a much larger scale -- at least three times as many cars, five times as many members -- just to break even; and Griffith had much grander ambitions than that. First, though, Zipcar had to master its basic operations. Customers would only give Zipcar a chance, Griffith reasoned, if its cars were within walking distance of their homes and if there were enough cars in each location to ensure availability. In New York, there were 35 Zipcars scattered helter-skelter in lots around Manhattan and Brooklyn; Griffith consolidated them in a single neighborhood, Chelsea, where the demographics -- young, noncar-owning, affluent residents -- were favorable. He then focused on intense, ''hyperlocal'' marketing, which included curbside demonstrations of Zipcar's technology, droll Zipcar ads in bus shelters and free membership for merchants who prominently displayed Zipcar pamphlets. Membership applications quickly rose. Zipcar moved on to other neighborhoods, one at a time, repeating the same saturation techniques, which relied more on what Griffith called ''hand-to-hand combat'' than cash. With a clutch of funky, brightly colored, logo-emblazoned Zipcars concentrated in their neighborhoods, New Yorkers started noticing the cars on the street or hearing about them from friends. Growth gave the company a stronger position to strike bargains with operators of parking lots and made it cheaper to maintain the cars. Griffith's managerial expertise, the scent he gave off of having crunched the numbers every which way and of having taken tight control of the company's future, appealed to prominent venture capitalists. He persuaded Thomas Stemberg, the founder of Staples, to join a multimillion-dollar round of investment that kept the company afloat; in 2005 he raised $10 million from Benchmark Capital; a year later he brought in $25 million, mostly from Greylock Partners. Griffith helped his cause by being frugal: half of the $40 million he raised remains in the company's coffers.
 In short order, the fledgling, slightly subversive enterprise -- the rejection of private ownership for something more collectivist -- accelerated toward respectability. It spread to Chicago, Toronto, London and 50 other locations. It negotiated with colleges to provide cars to their campuses and with businesses to provide cars to their employees. It took over Flexcar, its only serious rival for national dominance. In six years, Griffith built the company's annual revenues to $100 million from $2 million. There's every indication, he told me, that a troubled economy works just as well for Zipcar as a strong one -- he has projected 40 percent growth in 2009 -- and the company is glad to publicize its finding that members who give up their cars save an average of $600 a month. ''Smart consumption is the new black,'' he joked. ''It goes with everything.'' Griffith proposed that a billion-dollar company was achievable in the near term. ''Ninety-five percent of people living in the 15 largest cities don't need to own cars. If we were to sign up just 5 percent of them, that gets us to a million members and a billion dollars. There are already many neighborhoods -- in Brooklyn, in Washington, in Cambridge -- where 10 to 13 percent of the over-21 population are Zipcar members. And it's not slowing down.'' Still, Zipcar has yet to prove that a car-sharing business can actually make money. It continued to operate at a loss in 2008; Griffith wouldn't say how deep the losses were, but he implied that they were modest, and the planned outcome of the company's aggressive growth. ''There's been this level of 'Hey, trust us, we're going to make money some day,' '' he acknowledged. ''Well, 2009 is the year we become profitable. We've never said that before.''
 In Griffith's telling, it no longer seemed eccentric to hear ''car sharing'' in the same breath as ''finding some liquidity for our investor base'' through an eventual stock offering. ''We're much more mainstream now than we used to be,'' he pointed out. ''When I started here, the company had been very focused on the 'green' messaging, the 'sustainability' messaging. We felt that was too narrow, so we repositioned the company around lifestyle. I like to say we're in the freedom business: you can do your thing without the cost and hassle of ownership. You don't have to be a tree hugger to get that. I don't think of myself as the guy waving the Greenpeace flag. I think of myself as a smart consumer.''
 IN the past half-dozen years, as Zipcar gained traction, a number of next-generation, nonprofit car-sharing concerns have sprung up in cities large and small, often seeded by grants from municipalities, transit agencies and philanthropic foundations. The nonprofits make no bones about their pro-environment, anti-car agenda and are staffed by those who seem to believe that the profit motive is barely compatible with the values that all car sharers ought to share. When I spoke to Rick Hutchinson, the C.E.O. of City CarShare, which has operated in the San Francisco Bay Area since 2001 and currently has more than 11,000 members on its rolls, he told me, ''The founders of our company believed that car sharing would always be a low- or no-margin business.'' Hutchinson said he would not ''go negative on'' Zipcar, but he admitted that it is difficult to vie with a company that can afford to spend more on parking and ads and that does not feel bound, as City CarShare does, to do things like provide car sharing to residents of low-income housing developments. The most difficult competition is philosophical. City CarShare, Hutchinson said, is in the unusual position of discouraging its members from using its product: ''We exist to get people to drive less. Otherwise, it's questionable what value we're contributing.''
 When we spoke, Hutchinson told me that at a recent conference of transportation professionals in Washington, there had been discussion about the possibility that for-profit car-sharing companies might be less successful per member in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions than their nonprofit counterparts. Proof of this would be big news in the car-sharing world, some of whose more zealous citizens like to complain that Zipcar has too few hybrid vehicles in its fleet and packs its membership rolls by offering pickup trucks, S.U.V.'s and even -- gasp! -- BMWs. After Griffith took over, Zipcar eliminated its mileage charge, instead allowing 180 free miles with each rental. To the nonprofits, this encouraged driving; to Griffith, it was simply good business. ''Members told us that having a mileage charge made them feel like they were driving a taxi,'' he says. ''It was an anxious experience. So we did away with it.'' Griffith does not dispute the likelihood that Zipcar provides somewhat less benefit to the environment, member for member, than the more ideologically upright nonprofits. ''That's not the point, though,'' he counters. ''We want to do the things that build our membership. The bigger the membership, the bigger the net plus for the environment. With our numbers, we have huge impacts. I'm not going to apologize for having a BMW if it takes 15 cars off the road.''
 Another competitor is probably going to be even less likely to apologize. Late last year, Hertz, with $9 billion in annual revenues behind it, rolled out a car-sharing company, Connect by Hertz, in New York, London and Paris, and hinted at plans for rapid expansion. Car-sharing insiders whispered that Hertz had devoted a staff of 40 to the start-up and wondered whether Hertz's plan was to enter car sharing in earnest or merely to stay in long enough to destroy Zipcar. Certainly Connect by Hertz seems to have studied Zipcar's modus operandi: it is self-service, Web-based, features Minis rather than Chevys, charges a flat hourly fee that includes gas and insurance and bathes its Web site in a green patina. Hertz has not shied from upping Zipcar's ante, either. Its hourly rates are generally a few dollars less than those of Zipcar. It boasts tech-y features that Zipcars lack, like GPS and in-car communications with a call center. Hertz's size would seem to allow it to procure, park and maintain cars more cheaply than Zipcar can. The question, though, is whether it can adapt its grown-up corporate culture to the sandbox play that is car sharing. Nonprofits have made a go of it because they care. Zipcar got this far because it has been scrappy, innovative and in touch with generational change. Will a Zipster cross the road to Hertz?
 I asked my neighbor Joe. ''Possibly,'' he said. ''I like Zipcar. I've told a lot of people about it. A number of friends signed up because of me.'' Then he paused and, Zipster that he is, asserted his independence. ''I'm not brand loyal. I have more brand loyalty to my orange juice.''
 SIX BLOCKS FROM MY APARTMENT is a small garage, one of several in the neighborhood, where Zipcars live. On a Wednesday afternoon in January, 20 of them were available. There was a Subaru Outback called Opula, a spiffy convertible Mini named Mezick, a Volvo called Shawnee. It was my maiden voyage in a Zipcar, and I had a year's worth of chores and two winters' worth of spring cleaning to take care of. I opted for the roomiest vehicle I could find, a steel-blue Honda CR-V known as Cuff. I passed my Zipcard in front of the windshield. Entry granted. I pulled out of the garage, turned left and waited while a bulldozer tore the street to scraps. A blue knit hat had been left in the glove compartment, and a crumpled gum wrapper lay beneath the armrest. I turned toward my apartment, perhaps too tentatively, and was cut off by an ambulance. Once at my building, I double-parked, hazards flashing, and bolted in and out of my apartment six times. I was already a half hour into my two-hour reservation. I set off for the U.P.S. counter at Staples, where I shipped five boxes containing who-knows-what to oblivion. From there I continued a half-mile to my storage unit, a 5-by-7-foot unit whose monthly rental cost never fails to shock my out-of-town friends. My junk seemed to be in much the same condition I remembered. I tossed in a few more items and returned to my Zipcar.
 Crossing the Gowanus Canal, I admired some graffiti that an intrepid vandal, enraged at Wall Street, had scrawled high atop a derelict factory. It was good, unprintable stuff. Then I made a mistake. I missed my turn and had to go north on Smith Street. The traffic was miserable. It was depressing to pass all the restaurants I hadn't gone to in ages. I turned on the radio but soon grew tired of hearing about Bernie Madoff. Luckily, the overture to Tannhauser was playing on WQXR. I was nervous about exceeding my time limit, so I pulled over and figured out how to buy extra time over the phone. Technology works. Finally I made it to the Salvation Army on Atlantic Avenue, where I dragged seven overstuffed garbage bags into the donation room. Some happy customer with a penchant for sharing would come into a lot of adorable baby clothing, priced to move.
 The back of the car was now empty, so I headed to Red Hook and wandered for a while in the aisles of Fairway, the greatest of grocery stores, lingering for a brief age by the cheese counter and sampling my share -- but no more -- of olives. I loaded my cart, swiped my credit card, packed my Zipcar. Then I noticed a tiny park, just beyond Fairway, jutting into the harbor. I walked over. The day was clear and cold. I looked south across the water to the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. The harbor was dotted with barges. In New Jersey, plumes of white smoke rose into the sky. I looked at the Statue of Liberty. It is always startling to see it nearby. It tends to stir thoughts about the freedom business.
 I headed back to the garage. In three hours -- and for less than $40 -- I had traveled seven miles. I was glad to have run my errands. It hadn't felt like freedom. It felt like driving. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHEELS A GO-GO: A Zipcar named Musk on its journey from the Upper East Side to Parsippany, N.J., and back.
VROOM SERVICE: With a swipe of a Zipcard, the day's errands begin.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON FULFORD)(pg. MM37)
NIGHT RIDER: Zipcars are available at all hours.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON FULFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM38)
 TOWN AND (WINE) COUNTRY: From Manhattan to Jamesport, Long Island, by way of Astoria, Queens.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON FULFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); PSYCHOGRAPHICS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); THANKSGIVING (73%); SKATEBOARDING (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%)

COMPANY: ZIPCAR INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: ZIP (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



331 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA: EXCERPTS FROM OPINION ONLINE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 440 words

 BODY:
DOMESTIC DISTURBANCES In the past I sensed a certain sadness, even feelings of betrayal, in the reactions from my husband, Max, to my proselytizing about my Pema Chodron ''Getting Unstuck'' CD: ''I never thought that you, of all people, would get into that New Age stuff,'' he'd said wistfully. I hadn't realized that when a person gets unstuck the people around her can feel left behind. 
 It has dawned on me lately, meditating on the Metro, thoughts silenced so completely that I can hear every page being turned by passengers up and down the car that being fully in the moment, all senses turned on, feeling your hands in your lap and the ground under your feet, is a very good way of not being there at all. 
 -- Judith Warner, 
 from ''Being and Mindfulness''
 PROOF Babies are magical and beautiful and amazing. They are also exhausting and frustrating and anxiety-inducing. My daughter nursed nonstop and I didn't even think of having a drink. Not only did I not want alcohol in my bloodstream when she nursed, I was also just too tired. Wine would only put me to sleep, and sleep was an impossibility. 
 The first time my husband and I went out, I had a glass of wine and I felt like I was shooting up heroin in my parents' bedroom. It seemed so wrong. When I went home, I pumped my milk and immediately poured it down the sink, an act that seemed almost as wasteful as blithely burning hundred dollar bills.
 -- Anna Fricke, from ''Moderation
 and the Modern Mom''
 HEADING HOME Baseball players will purchase just about anything, as if inspired to single-handedly act as our economic stimulus package. Player A knows someone who is selling something and vouches for him to Player B. So Player B buys from that someone. Pretty soon, the entire locker room is buying from this someone. It could be jewelry, houses, cars, cigars, whatever. 
 My first year in Philadelphia, I lived in a nice high-rise apartment on the 40th floor in the well-to-do Rittenhouse Square neighborhood. Great view, simple accommodations, reasonably priced. In my second year, my broker, with the best intentions, persuaded me that I deserved an apartment commensurate with major league tastes and needs. So, I moved. This all-inclusive apartment had a weekly housekeeper, front desk service, you name it. I was miserable there. The housekeeper gossiped to anyone who would listen about whatever my teammates and I were supposedly doing. Nothing like a lack of privacy in your own home. But I was in the big leagues, and I was supposed to live in the best place money could buy. 
 -- Doug Glanville, 
 from ''Bling Training''
 For more, nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BASEBALL (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); HEROIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



332 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Even in Difficult Times, a Self-Help Guru Finds a Willing and Paying Audience

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA and REBECCA WHITE

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
Times have been tough for Matthew Smith. A self-proclaimed ''Star Wars'' fanatic from Clifton, N.J., Mr. Smith, 38, was laid off from his job as a retail manager five months ago and has been living on unemployment ever since. His dream of starting his own business fizzled along with his marriage -- one was directly tied to the other, he says. And his efforts to find a new job have so far been futile. 
 ''My life has not been working,'' he said, as he stood inside a huge ballroom at the Westin Hotel on Saturday along with 500 other people, many of them also unemployed and looking for something better. 
 But this was not a job fair. They were here to see a motivational speaker and self-help guru, and paying a hefty price to do so: $1,297 for a high-decibel, two-day seminar. In this case, the speaker was James Arthur Ray, one of the emerging names in the $11 billion self-improvement industry, and the event was called the Harmonic Wealth Weekend. 
 To pay for his admission, Mr. Smith sold some of his prized ''Star Wars'' memorabilia, including a 1977 Darth Vader action figure, for which he got $1,000. Other participants ponied up even more money at tables in the back of the ballroom, where they could sign up for more seminars or purchase an assortment of Mr. Ray's books and DVDs. The showcase item was a package of three workshops, including one called ''Practical Mysticism,'' on sale for the discounted price of $13,685 (a $5,695 savings), which Mr. Ray pitched throughout the seminar. 
 Given the current economic climate, industry analysts say it may seem incongruous for those in need to spend this kind of money. John LaRosa, research director for Marketdata Enterprises, a market research firm in Tampa, Fla., expects the recession to mean far slower growth for an industry that had been red-hot, nearly doubling in sales since 2000. The industry includes infomercials, self-help books, motivational speakers, seminars and personal coaches.
 ''Consumers are being squeezed,'' Mr. LaRosa said in a telephone interview. ''They're not going to have as much to spend on discretionary purchases for things like expensive workshops and seminars.'' 
 If the economy is cutting into his business, Mr. Ray, 51, says he isn't seeing it. ''I think it's holding steady,'' he said backstage during a break, as Van Halen and U2 blared over the speakers. ''We have over 500 people here this weekend. I think what I'm providing is a tremendous value, and there's always going to be a place, regardless of the economy, regardless of the market, for people who are providing tremendous value and tremendous service.'' 
 In Mr. Ray's case, attendees paid to listen to a former preacher's son and a junior college dropout who has fashioned a successful business on the promise that he can help people build financial wealth as well as strengthen their spiritual and physical well-being. 
 Throw in dollops of quantum physics, Shamanism, Buddhism, Kabbalah, tantric sex and lessons drawn from his personal experiences and the movies (even ''Star Wars''), and the audience was enthralled. And though he's not in the ranks of Anthony Robbins and Phil McGraw (Dr. Phil), his appearances on ''Oprah'' and ''Larry King Live,'' and in ''The Secret,'' Rhonda Byrnes's documentary and book that have become a New Age phenomenon, have won him a following. His own book, ''Harmonic Wealth,'' appeared on the New York Times best-seller list for two weeks last spring.
 Mr. LaRosa, of Marketdata, said typical self-improvement customers are middle-aged women with an average household income of $88,000. 
 There were undoubtedly plenty of people who fit that profile in Jersey City. But there were also many who were feeling the pinch of the economy. 
 Drawing on his own brushes with bankruptcy (once in 1997 and again in 2000 after the dot-com bust), Mr. Ray advised the crowd that for every negative turn, there is an equally positive opportunity. ''There has to be, it's the law of physics,'' he said. 
 Mr. Smith, the ''Star Wars'' fan who hopes to use Mr. Ray's teachings to help him realize his own dreams of starting a special effects business, said he was not turned off by the extra sales pitches. 
 ''Yeah, he's a business man and he wants to make money,'' Mr. Smith said. ''But you know what? He's telling people what they need to hear: to snap out of it.'' 
 Eugena Criss, 48, of the Bronx, is practically a self-help seminar groupie. She has attended workshops by Mr. Robbins (that one cost $1,500), Wayne W. Dyer ($750) and T. Harv Eker ($1,500). This was her eighth time seeing Mr. Ray. 
 ''Oh my God, who do I like best?'' she said. ''I love them all, but James's work resonates with me spiritually. It's practical, useful and life-changing.'' She credits Mr. Ray for inspiring her to start her own business, Perfect Birth, Birthing and Women's Wellness Center, though she says she is still struggling financially. She has had to save and borrow money to attend the seminars, she said, ''but it's worth it.''
 Shannon Conklin, 24, of Bohemia, N.Y., a former office manager and New Age bookstore owner now getting unemployment benefits, is hoping to recoup the seminar cost when she files her taxes. Meanwhile, she was pondering plunking down another $997 for one of Mr. Ray's book, movie and study packages. 
 ''I'm ready to create my own wealth again,'' she said. ''I want to open up a wellness retreat. Financially, I'm not ready to do that, but that's why I'm here.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With a popular book and appearances on ''Oprah,'' James Arthur Ray commanded a strong turnout in Jersey City on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); RECESSION (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



333 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 7885 words

HEADLINE: All Boarded Up

BYLINE: By ALEX KOTLOWITZ. 
Alex Kotlowitz teaches writing at Northwestern University and is a regular contributor to the magazine. His last cover article was about urban violence.

 BODY:
 TONY BRANCATELLI, A CLEVELAND CITY COUNCILMAN, yearns for signs that something like normal life still exists in his ward. Early one morning last fall, he called me from his cellphone. He sounded unusually excited. He had just visited two forlorn-looking vacant houses that had been foreclosed more than a year ago. They sat on the same lot, one in front of the other. Both had been frequented by squatters, and Brancatelli had passed by to see if they had been finally boarded up. They hadn't. But while there he noticed with alarm what looked like a prone body in the yard next door. As he moved closer, he realized he was looking at an elderly woman who had just one leg, lying on the ground. She was leaning on one arm and, with the other, was whacking at weeds with a hatchet and stuffing the clippings into a cardboard box for garbage pickup. ''Talk about fortitude,'' he told me. In a place like Cleveland, hope comes in small morsels. 
The next day, I went with Brancatelli to visit Ada Flores, the woman who was whacking at the weeds. She is 81, and mostly gets around in a wheelchair. Flores is a native Spanish speaker, and her English was difficult to understand, especially above the incessant barking of her caged dog, Tuffy. But the story she told Brancatelli was familiar to him. Teenagers had been in and out of the two vacant houses next door, she said, and her son, who visits her regularly, at one point boarded up the windows himself. ''Are they going to tear them down?'' she asked. Brancatelli crossed himself. ''I hope so,'' he mumbled.
 Prayer and sheer persistence are pretty much all Brancatelli has to go on these days. Cleveland is reeling from the foreclosure crisis. There have been roughly 10,000 foreclosures in two years. For all of 2007, before it was overtaken by sky-high foreclosure rates in parts of California, Nevada and Florida, Cleveland's rate was among the highest in the country. (It's now 24th among metropolitan areas.) Vacant houses are not a new phenomenon to the city. Ravaged by the closing of American steel mills, Cleveland has long been in decline. With fewer manufacturing jobs to attract workers, it has lost half its population since 1960. Its poverty rate is one of the highest in the nation. But in all those years, nothing has approached the current scale of ruin. 
 And in December, just when local officials thought things couldn't get worse, Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland, posted a record number of foreclosure filings. The number of empty houses is so staggeringly high that no one has an accurate count. The city estimates that 10,000 houses, or 1 in 13, are vacant. The county treasurer says it's more likely 15,000. Most of the vacant houses are owned by lenders who foreclosed on the properties and by the wholesalers who are now sweeping in to pick up houses in bulk, as if they were trading in baseball cards. 
 Brancatelli and others -- judges, the police, city officials, residents -- are grappling with the wreckage left behind, although to call this the aftermath would be premature. Even with President Barack Obama's plan to help prevent foreclosures, the city is bracing for more, especially as more people lose their jobs. The city's unemployment rate is now 8.8 percent. Moreover, on some streets so many houses are already vacant that those residents left behind are not necessarily inclined to stay. ''It just happens so fast, the sad part is you really have little control,'' Brancatelli told me. ''It snowballs on the street, and you try to prevent that avalanche.'' Walking away from a house even makes a kind of economic sense when the mortgage far exceeds the home's value; Obama's foreclosure-prevention plan does little to address that situation. Now outside investors have descended on Cleveland; they pick up properties for the price of a large flat-screen TV and then try to sell them for a profit. 
 So much here defies reasonableness. It's what Brancatelli keeps telling me. A few months ago, he met with Luis Jimenez, a train conductor from Long Beach, Calif. Jimenez had purchased a house in Brancatelli's ward on eBay and had come to Cleveland to resolve some issues with the property. The two-story house has a long rap sheet of bad deals. Since 2001, it has been foreclosed twice and sold four times, for prices ranging from $87,000 to $1,500. Jimenez bought it for $4,000. When Jimenez arrived in Cleveland, he learned that the house had been vacant for two years; scavengers had torn apart the walls to get the copper piping, ripped the sinks from the walls and removed the boiler from the basement. He also learned that the city had condemned the house and would now charge him to demolish it. Brancatelli asked Jimenez, What were you thinking, buying a house unseen, from 2,000 miles away? ''It was cheap,'' Jimenez shrugged. He didn't want to walk away from the house, but he didn't have the money to renovate. The property remains an eyesore. ''Generally, I'm an optimist, but none of this makes sense,'' Brancatelli told me. ''Trying to give order to all this chaos is the big challenge.''
 Like others who have stayed in Cleveland, Brancatelli, who has lived in his two-story American Foursquare for 15 years, is trying to hold the wall against the flood. Of his ward, known as Slavic Village, he says: ''It's one of the most resilient communities in the country. People are rolling up their sleeves and working. We can't wait for others to step in.'' This was a tone -- the swagger of the underdog -- that I heard from other Cleveland stalwarts during the weeks I spent in the city this winter. ''Cleveland's a blue-collar community,'' Mayor Frank Jackson told me. ''They're surviving-cultures. And we will fight back.'' 
 The task is achingly slow; each house its own battle. On one street I visited, in a ward near Brancatelli's, a third of the houses were abandoned. One resident, Anita Gardner, told me about the young family who moved in down the street a few years before. They spruced up the house with new windows, a fireplace, wood kitchen cabinets, track lighting and a Jacuzzi. When they lost the house to foreclosure, they left nothing for the scavengers. They stripped their own dwelling, piling toilets, metal screen doors, kitchen cabinets, the furnace and copper pipes into a moving van. ''They said, 'Why should someone else get it?' '' Gardner told me. ''So they took it themselves.'' In December, Gardner's neighbor watched a man strain to push a cart filled with thin slabs of concrete down the street. It explained why so many of the abandoned homes in the city are without front steps, as if their legs had been knocked out from under them. Perhaps such pillage is part of the natural momentum of a city being torn apart. If you can't hold onto something of real value, at least get your hands on something. 
 Foreclosures are a problem all over the country now, but Cleveland got to this place a while ago. Cities, old and new, are looking at what's occurring in Cleveland with some trepidation -- and also looking for guidance. Already places as diverse as Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Las Vegas and Minneapolis have neighborhoods where at least one of every five homes stands vacant. In states like California, Florida and Nevada, where many of the foreclosures have been newer housing, there is fear that with mounting unemployment and more people walking away from their property, houses will remain empty longer, with a greater likelihood that they will deteriorate or be vandalized. ''There are neighborhoods around the country as bad as anything in Cleveland,'' says Dan Immergluck, a visiting scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and an associate professor in the city and regional planning program at Georgia Tech. Local officials from other industrial cities have visited Cleveland to learn how it's dealing with the devastation. ''Cleveland is a bellwether,'' Immergluck says. ''It's where other cities are heading because of the economic downturn.'' 
 TONY BRANCATELLI, WHO IS 51, is a man of a birdlike build and intensity, but he also possesses a Midwestern folksiness, closing most conversations with a cheerful ''alrighty.'' Over the past couple of years, he has become a minor media star. Journalists from Sweden, Japan, China, Germany, Britain and France have visited him, drawn to his ward because of the high rate of foreclosures, at present two a day. Brancatelli's world is defined by the borders of Slavic Village. It's where he grew up and where he has lived for all but three years of his life. His license plate reads Slavic 1. (He tried to convince his wife to get plates that read Slavic 2, but she declined.) The neighborhood took root roughly a hundred years ago: diminutive, narrow homes -- some no more than 900 square feet -- built within walking distance of the steel mills now shuttered. The demographics have been changing over the past decade: African-Americans moving in, whites moving out. A common story. Unintentionally, it's one of the few racially mixed communities in Cleveland.
 Brancatelli's mother worked as a waitress at a local diner, then as a clerk at a neighborhood Army-Navy store. His father was an auto mechanic. They divorced when Brancatelli was 12, yet Brancatelli describes his childhood in Slavic Village in nostalgic hues. ''You always knew somebody,'' he says. ''You didn't need formal day care. There was always somewhere to stay.'' 
 He began working for the Slavic Village Development Corporation, a local nonprofit group, in 1988 and a year later became its director. The organization built and renovated storefronts and homes, bringing new people to the area. In fact, he met his wife when she bought a rehabbed house in the neighborhood. He stayed at the development group for 17 years until moving on to the City Council. 
 Cleveland has long been known for its unusually large number of nonprofit housing groups, and in the 1990s their impact on the city was noticeable. Under Brancatelli's watch, Slavic Village Development constructed more than 500 new homes and rehabbed more than 1,000. Brancatelli measured success by the number of homes the group sold for more than $50,000. ''We started to see this incredible transformation,'' he recalls. A local thrift, Third Federal Savings and Loan, built its new corporate headquarters in Slavic Village. Marc A. Stefanski, chairman and chief executive of Third Federal, told me, ''There was a good feeling that, hey, this neighborhood's coming back.'' Throughout the city, there was a renaissance of sorts: new housing construction in the neighborhoods and, downtown, three sports stadiums and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Cleveland adopted the moniker ''The Comeback City.''
 But then Cleveland was hit hard -- and early -- by the foreclosure crisis. In 1999, Brancatelli noticed something peculiar: homes, many of which were in squalid condition, were selling for inflated prices. One entrepreneur in particular caught Brancatelli's attention: 27-year-old Raymond Delacruz. He would buy a distressed property and, at best, make nominal repairs before quickly selling it for three or four times what he paid for it. The flips needed the cooperation of appraisers and the gullibility of home buyers. But the proliferation of mortgage companies -- mostly based out of state and willing to provide loans with little documentation -- also facilitated flippers. And the flippers justified the high prices to both home buyers and mortgage companies by pointing to the high prices nonprofit housing groups, like Brancatelli's, were getting for their new construction. 
 There was something else going on in the city that was even more destructive. Unlike fast-growing communities in Florida and California, Cleveland didn't see housing prices rise through the stratosphere. But even moderately rising property values created the conditions for subprime lenders to exploit strapped homeowners. Cold-calling mortgage brokers offered refinancing deals that would let homeowners use the equity in their houses to pay off other debts. A neighbor of Brancatelli's had medical problems and fell behind in her bills. She refinanced, then did it two more times, draining the equity in her house. ''She used her house as an A.T.M.,'' Brancatelli says. ''In the end, they just walked away. The debt exceeded the value of the house.'' In other instances, mortgage brokers would cruise neighborhoods, looking for houses with old windows or a leaning porch, something that needed fixing. They would then offer to arrange financing to pay for repairs. Many of those deals were too good to be true, and interest rates ballooned after a short period of low payments. Suddenly burdened with debt, people began to lose homes they had owned free and clear. 
 As early as 2000, a handful of public officials led by the county treasurer, Jim Rokakis, went to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and pleaded with it to take some action. In 2002, the city passed an ordinance meant to discourage predatory lending by, among other things, requiring prospective borrowers to get premortgage counseling. In response, the banking industry threatened to stop making loans in the city and then lobbied state legislators to prohibit cities in Ohio from imposing local antipredatory lending laws. 
 In the ensuing years, the city's real estate was transformed into an Alice-in-Wonderland-like landscape. Local officials began keeping track of foreclosed homes by placing red dots on large wall maps. Some corners of the map, like Slavic Village, are now so packed with red dots they look like puddles of blood. The first question outsiders now ask is, Where has everyone gone? The homeless numbers have not increased much over the past couple of years, and it appears that most of the people who lost their homes have moved in with relatives, found a rental or moved out of the city altogether. The county has lost nearly 100,000 people over the past seven years, the largest exodus in recent memory outside of New Orleans. 
 Banks are now selling properties at such low prices -- many below what they sold for in the 1920s -- you have to wonder why they bother to foreclose at all. (The F.D.I.C. estimates that each foreclosure costs a bank on average $50,000, more than if they were to do a loan modification.) All of this leaves Brancatelli in a constant state of exasperation. When asked how he's doing, he often takes a breath and replies, ''Another day in paradise.'' 
 O.V.V. IS A TERM OF ART that stands for Open, Vacant and Vandalized. Houses fitting this description have popped up like prairie dogs. They are boarded, unboarded, then boarded again, and the city can't keep up with the savvy squatters. They will prop the plywood over the front entrance to make it look as if it's nailed shut. One woman told me that she called the police last summer when she saw smoke coming out of a vacant home across the street; it turned out that some young men were cooking on a grill inside. 
 On a dreary wintry day, Brancatelli took me to Hosmer Street, on which a fourth of the homes were foreclosed. As we strolled down the block, Brancatelli noticed something odd. Through a side window of one slender house, we could make out a waist-high pile of tree limbs and branches. The front door was off the hinges and propped against the entrance. We entered through the rear, where the door was gone altogether. ''Hello,'' Brancatelli hollered, ''City!'' -- an effort to both warn squatters and frighten animals. Earlier that day we entered another O.V.V. and heard footsteps upstairs. ''They don't have a gun,'' he had assured me. He explained that scavengers know enough not to carry weapons because it would mean more prison time should they be caught. Even in O.V.V.'s, there are rules.
 Inside, we found firewood and brush piled in the kitchen and front room. ''The crap we deal with,'' Brancatelli muttered to himself. He snapped a photo with his cellphone and sent an e-mail message to the city's Building and Housing Department, urging the department to send someone to secure the house. He often does this two or three times a day. But finding a collection of timber like this is of particular concern; over the past year there have been more than 60 fires in his ward, all in vacant houses. The fire department tried stakeouts but has not caught anyone. The general belief is that the fires are set either by squatters trying to stay warm or by mischievous kids. Brancatelli, though, wonders aloud if it might be vigilantes who don't like the blight on their block. ''Maybe I'm overthinking it,'' he says. More likely, he's projecting. He would like to see many of these houses just disappear. 
 This is Brancatelli's conundrum: many of the abandoned homes should be razed. They're either so old or so impractically tiny that they have little resale value, or they have been stripped of their innards and are in utter disrepair. There are an estimated one million lender-owned properties nationwide, and on average each house sits empty for eight months, a length of time that is only growing. Demolition, though, is costly: roughly $8,000 a house. Two years ago, Litton Loan Servicing, a mortgage servicer, discussed giving the city a number of foreclosed homes. Free. The city told them that would be fine, but only if the company came up with money to pay for the necessary demolitions. The transaction never occurred. 
 Last summer, Congress appropriated $3.9 billion in emergency funds for cities to acquire and rehab foreclosed properties. (An additional $2 billion will be available under the recently enacted economic-stimulus package.) The legislation was labeled the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, but Cleveland and a handful of other cities had to lobby hard to convince Congress that ''stabilization'' in their cities meant tearing down houses -- not renovating them. Last month, Cleveland said it planned to use more than half of its $25.5 million allotment to raze 1,700 houses. This presents an opportunity to reimagine the city, to erase the obsolete and provide a space for the new. (There's little money now to build, so imagine is the operative word.) Cuyahoga County is also establishing a land bank, a public entity that can acquire distressed properties and hold on to the land until improved economic times allow for redevelopment. The county hopes to persuade banks to unload their distressed properties, which the land bank would then raze, as well as give up some foreclosed properties in the suburbs, which the county could eventually renovate and sell. 
 Other cities -- including Minneapolis, Youngstown, Detroit and Cincinnati -- have put aside at least a third of their neighborhood-stabilization funds for demolition. ''As properties stay vacant for longer periods of time,'' says Joe Schilling, a founder of the National Vacant Properties Campaign, ''it's inevitable that even in some of the fast-growing communities, they'll have to look at demolition.'' Phoenix, for instance, has set aside a quarter of its grant money to tear down abandoned homes. 
 Cleveland may use some of those demolition dollars on houses now owned by the federal government. Between the Department of Housing and Urban Development and entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the federal government has control of roughly a thousand abandoned properties in Cleveland. Across the street from the house with the timber inside sits a one-and-a-half story vacant property owned by HUD, which had guaranteed the last mortgage. On the front porch, a large picture window was wide open, but Brancatelli chose to enter through the front door. Going on a hunch, he punched the numbers in the address into the lockbox. The toilet was gone, as was the copper piping. HUD recently sold this house -- for $1,500 -- but didn't inform the new owner that the house had been condemned. ''They dumped the house,'' Brancatelli grumbled. ''It's this kind of stuff that drives me nuts.'' 
 A few weeks ago Brancatelli persuaded HUD to let the owner out of his purchase. Then HUD offered to sell the city its distressed properties, including this one, for $100 each. You might think this was something to celebrate. Brancatelli, though, is irked. As he sees it, the city will now have to use some of its emergency HUD financing to demolish houses that HUD was responsible for. 
 THE LIFE OF A CLEVELAND CITY COUNCILMAN has become one of answering complaints derived in one way or another from the foreclosure crisis. In November, Zachary Reed, who represents the ward near Slavic Village, received a pleading phone call from Cecilia Cooper-Hardy, a constituent and school-bus driver who lives next to a vacant house. Cooper-Hardy told Reed that as she was leaving for work at 5 one morning, she peered out her living-room window and noticed a pair of eyes staring back at her from behind a slit cut in a window shade next door. Reed had the house secured, but within days the boards were pulled off. Cooper-Hardy then purchased a pistol that she now keeps under her pillow. The local police commander calls her regularly, just to make sure everything's O.K., a routine he has adopted with others as well. Last summer, while Cooper-Hardy was doing yardwork, someone slipped in her back door. She hollered to a neighbor across the street who was drinking in the yard with friends. They rushed to her aid as the burglar fled. That neighbor is gone now. Another foreclosure. So every morning she offers up a prayer, and then she peeks out her living room blinds to see if there's anyone peeking back at her from the house next door. Reed, the councilman, told me, ''If we don't get some help we're going to turn into a third-world nation.''
 Brancatelli doesn't necessarily disagree with the sentiment, but he continues to search for reasons to be sanguine. He insisted on driving me past a small store called Johnny's Beverage because, he told me, it was a key to his community's future. Johnny's Beverage sits in the middle of a residential block. Its facade is worn. Dark plastic sheeting covers the front windows so you can't see in. A hodgepodge of posters and handwritten signs advertise cold beer and wine, cigarettes and lottery tickets. A tattered American flag flaps in the breeze. When Jerome Jackson purchased the store three years ago, Brancatelli told him in no uncertain terms that he wasn't too happy about it and that he was going to oppose the transfer of the liquor license. It did not, after all, have the aspect of a family-friendly enterprise you would want in a residential neighborhood. 
 Jackson, who is 52 and barrel-chested, has a retiring demeanor. His perch is a narrow space separated from the rest of the store by counter-to-ceiling plexiglass. He had managed a store in another neighborhood and saved up to buy his own business. He renovated the upstairs and moved in (and hung the American flag from a second-floor deck he built). 
 He then purchased a foreclosed house down the street, where his brother could live. The house next door to the store went into foreclosure, and Brancatelli heard that Jackson kept watch over it, chasing scavengers away and erecting a fence in the rear. He also heard that Jackson had alerted the city that there was a foot of water in the basement of the vacant, the result of pipes having been ripped out. (This is common; Brancatelli has seen back water bills for vacant houses as high as $6,000.)
 Brancatelli began to reconsider his opinion of Jackson. He was keeping an eye on the neighborhood -- and he was committed to staying. Brancatelli decided to support the liquor-license transfer and then told Jackson that he would help get him the property next door, if he agreed to tear it down. 
 U.S. Bank, which owned the house, appealed a city condemnation order. ''It's the running joke,'' Brancatelli told me. ''The banks appeal the condemnations because they say they want more time to make repairs to put it on the market to sell. And I go to the hearings on a regular basis to say you shouldn't get more time. Here, they owned it for more than six months and hadn't made any repairs. They just want time to try to unload the property.'' Jackson offered U.S. Bank $2,000. He heard nothing. He upped his offer to $3,000. Again, no response. When Brancatelli intervened and made it clear that U.S. Bank would be stuck with the $8,000 demolition bill, the bank agreed to sell it for a dollar to the Slavic Development Corporation. The nonprofit group then turned it over to Jackson, who agreed to pay for the razing. ''Imbeciles,'' Brancatelli said more than once, referring to the banks. ''They're imbeciles.'' 
 I spent an evening with Jackson in his store and watched as a young disheveled man came in and purchased a pack of cigarettes. He hovered around the plexiglass. ''Do you want to buy some tools?'' the man asked.
 ''No,'' Jackson curtly replied.
 Customers frequently offer Jackson sinks, cabinets and other scavenged items. He says that in the few years he has owned the store, the community has become more transient. ''I don't know nobody no more,'' he said. ''I don't know who to trust.'' Everyone calls him Johnny. They assume the store was named after him, even though it has been there for decades. The week before Christmas, two men rammed a van into the front of the store, intending to rob it. The van got stuck, and the robbers fled. But Jackson isn't deterred. He says he hopes one day to knock down his store and build a row of small enterprises, including a restaurant and a barbershop. He is trying to buy another vacant house on the block. Brancatelli now fears he'll lose Jackson. ''I want to convince him we have a strategy for the neighborhood,'' he told me. ''The worst thing you can have happen is to have this store close up.'' 
 BY MID-2007, IT BECAME CLEAR to Brancatelli that his was a city at the mercy of lenders and real estate wholesalers, who now owned thousands of abandoned properties in the city. Somehow, the city needed to hold these new land barons accountable for their vacant houses, so many of which were in utter disrepair. 
 Brancatelli and others looked to Raymond Pianka, the judge in the city's lone housing court. In 1996, Pianka gave up his seat on the City Council to accept this judgeship. His judicial colleagues derisively refer to it as ''rat court,'' because its main function is to make sure that owners mow their lawns, trim their hedges, clean up their garbage, repair leaning porches or hanging gutters -- in short, that they make their homes inhospitable for rats. No one foresaw that this lowliest of courts would become one of the most powerful instruments in the city's fight for survival. ''The court's the only tool we have,'' Brancatelli said. ''When we get them into court, we can't let them go.'' 
 In 2001, when it became clear how Raymond Delacruz was wreaking havoc on city neighborhoods by flipping houses, it was Pianka who ran him out of town. The city's building and housing department cited Delacruz for code violations on a house he hadn't flipped fast enough. When he didn't show up in court, Pianka had his chief bailiff stake out Delacruz at a doughnut shop. Pianka placed him on house arrest, ordering him to spend 30 days in the dilapidated structure he owned but had not maintained. Shortly after his sentence was up, Delacruz moved to Columbus, where he continued his flipping, and was eventually convicted for fraud that included swindling a bank vice president. 
 Housing codes, which were established in the mid-19th century, set minimum standards for housing quality. They traditionally help maintain both a city's aesthetics and safety. In Cleveland today, they seem to be all that keeps the city from crumbling. In 2007, Pianka realized that the banks weren't showing up in court after being cited for code violations. ''They were thumbing their noses at the city,'' he told me. ''They were probably thinking, It's Municipal Court. What can they do? And we thought, How loud can this mouse roar?'' Pianka set up what he called his Clean Hands Docket. If a bank didn't respond to a warrant, Pianka refused to order any evictions it requested. 
 Pianka's staff also dug up a little-used 1953 statute that allowed for trials in absentia, and every other Monday afternoon for the last year and a half Pianka has held trials with a judge and a prosecutor but no defendant. The first case involved Destiny Ventures, a firm based in Oklahoma that buys foreclosed properties in bulk and then sells them. It was cited in 2007 for violations on one of its houses, but didn't show up in court. The idea of a trial without a defendant was so unusual that when the prosecutor said he had no opening statement, Pianka prodded him. ''You're going to waive opening statement?'' he asked. ''Don't you want to give the court a little road map about the strategy?'' A housing inspector testified that Destiny Ventures had done nothing to correct the code violations on the vacant two-story clapboard house in question. The windows were punched out, the front door was wide open and roof shingles were missing. Pianka fined Destiny Ventures $40,000, and then had a collection agency sweep the company's bank accounts for the money. Brancatelli celebrated by taping a copy of the check to his office wall. In a recent phone interview, an owner of Destiny Ventures, Steve Nodine, said, ''It's unconstitutional the way they fine people.'' His firm now refuses to do business in Cleveland.
 One morning this fall, I visited Pianka before his Monday court session. His office, on the 13th floor of the Justice Center, overlooks Lake Erie and the new Cleveland Browns Stadium. It might be one of the nicer views in the city, but he would just as soon overlook the city's residential neighborhoods. When I entered his chambers, he was on his computer scanning Web sites to tap into the real estate chatter. He found a Cleveland house on eBay selling for $500. In the photos, Pianka could make out mold on the walls and noticed a large portable heater, which he said was illegal. He shook his head. He has no power to haul people into court. Building and housing inspectors issue citations for code violations, and then the city's law department decides whether to prosecute. Pianka hears only misdemeanor offenses, but he can both fine and jail defendants. 
 Pianka, who has a bushy mustache, often seems amused, so it's easy to underestimate his resoluteness. The chief magistrate told me she has heard Pianka curse only once. It was in late 2007. He had fined Wells Fargo $20,000 for code violations but told the bank he would rescind the fine if it spent that amount rehabilitating the structure. Wells Fargo fixed up the house, and it was, for Pianka, a success story. When he drove the chief magistrate to the address to show off the house, there was nothing there, just a vacant lot. The city, he discovered, had razed it, unaware of the repairs.
 Pianka lives on a beautiful block in Cleveland's Detroit-Shoreway neighborhood, where there is a stunning variety of architecture. But even on his street, there have been three foreclosures. For months, Pianka helped keep watch on a majestic 19th-century Victorian down the street. One neighbor paid for the electricity so the vacant house would be protected against vandals by an alarm system. Pianka shoveled the snow in winter and often parked his car in the driveway so it would appear as if someone were living there. 
 Pianka is an amateur historian, and his office shelves are filled with books on Poland, his grandfather's native country. During my visit, he retrieved a book about wartime Warsaw and opened it to a photograph of a lone man with a wheelbarrow collecting bricks from the rubble of a building's ruins. ''He's putting the city back together,'' Pianka told me. ''We just have to make the best of things. We have to do it because nobody else will.''
 One of his assistants poked her head in the doorway. ''It looks like we're going to have another packed house,'' she announced, and Pianka headed for the courtroom. A line of people snaked into the hallway. When the bailiff called their names, they approached the lectern, usually without an attorney. Pianka asked one man how he wanted to plead. ''I plead whatever it takes,'' he replied. Most of the defendants are simply asking for guidance, or at least some understanding, and the word is that you can trust Pianka. ''He's the most loved judge in Cleveland,'' Brancatelli told me. A good number of the defendants are facing foreclosure themselves and don't have the means to keep up their property. Until recently, many might have refinanced, but that is no longer an option. 
 One of the first cases I observed involved Sally Hardy, who is 52 and works as a housekeeper at a nursing home. She asked Pianka if she could confer briefly with the prosecutor, which she did, and then began to cry softly. ''What'd you say to her?'' Pianka asked the prosecutor in an attempt to lighten the mood. Hardy jogged out of the courtroom in tears. When she returned, Pianka apologized. ''I'm sorry,'' he said. ''These are emotional times, and sometimes it feels like the weight of the world is on your shoulders.'' Her house was in foreclosure, she told Pianka, but she had rescued it. Pianka brightened. ''That's a great accomplishment,'' he told her. He ordered her into a program that assists struggling homeowners; a housing specialist will work with Hardy to find money to repair her roof and porch.
 Mayra Caraballo, a 39-year-old mother of two, appeared in court in response to code violations on her home. She explained to Pianka that she no longer owned the house. She had lost her job at a processing plant, and an adjustable rate had kicked in on her mortgage, boosting her monthly payments to $1,100, from $800. She had left after receiving a foreclosure notice. The house was quickly stripped of everything but the furnace. Pianka asked a clerk to check into the house's ownership; he suspected that the lender had withdrawn the foreclosure at the last minute, as is becoming more common. The clerk tracked down the trustee on the mortgage, Deutsche Bank, and confirmed that the foreclosure had indeed been withdrawn. Pianka calls these situations ''toxic titles.'' ''You're in limbo,'' Pianka told a shocked Caraballo. ''There's no hope in your getting out of this property as a result of foreclosure. We're seeing this more and more.'' 
 Pianka sees these toxic titles as an effort by lenders to dodge responsibility for vacant houses. Later, I called Deutsche Bank to ask about Caraballo's house. ''We don't own the property,'' a spokesman told me. ''We're the owner of record, but the investors who bought the mortgage-backed securities own it.'' Pianka chuckled when I told him of the bank's response. ''That's their mantra: we don't own it,'' he said. ''It's handy for them to say, 'Oh, it's not us.' It's part of this big shell game they're playing.'' I checked in with Caraballo, too. She's now renting and working part time at a day care center. She told me that she would like to move back into the house, but she's not sure she has the money to replace all the hardware that has been stripped by scavengers or to make the necessary repairs.
 Over the last year and a half, the housing court has collected $1.6 million in fines from defendants who didn't show up for their trials. Last April, Pianka fined Washington Mutual $100,000 for a vacant property on the city's west side. Washington Mutual, now owned by JPMorgan Chase, appealed, and in December, the Eighth District Court of Appeals in Ohio ruled that trials in absentia were not permitted in misdemeanor cases, essentially putting an end to Pianka's efforts. JPMorgan Chase disputes the code violations, but a spokeswoman said the bank was not planning to send a representative to court to respond to the city's charges.
 ''We just have to figure out some other ways,'' Pianka told me. He has suggested that the city could name corporate officers when prosecuting code violations. He told me that a Cleveland police officer was so angered by all the abandoned properties that he volunteered last month to serve warrants to bank officers should they ever be issued. In the meantime, early last year, Cleveland sued 21 lenders, arguing that their vacant houses created a public nuisance, virtually destroying some neighborhoods. Ten of those lenders have since gone under, been acquired or gone into bankruptcy. The case is slowly winding its way through federal court.
 ''This crisis changes weekly,'' Pianka told me. ''It's a torrent of water coming at us. We can divert it one way or another. But we can't stop it.''
 ON FEB. 29 LAST YEAR, Derek Owens, a 36-year-old police officer on patrol, spotted a group of young men drinking beer in the open garage of an abandoned house. Neighbors previously complained of teenagers both selling and using drugs in the row of vacant houses on the street. When Owens and his partner got out of their squad car, the men fled. As Owens chased them, one of the men stopped in the driveway of yet another abandoned house, turned around and opened fire. One shot hit Owens in the abdomen, and he died several hours later. 
 When Brancatelli heard of Owens's murder, he wondered who owned the abandoned house and garage where the young men were drinking. He made some phone calls and discovered that he knew the owners, Eric and Sheila Tomasi, a couple from Templeton, Calif., who had been buying up foreclosed houses in Cleveland as an investment. Eric Tomasi soon called. He had heard about the shooting. Brancatelli liked the Tomasis, and suggested that it might be a good idea to begin repairs on the house. The neighbors, he told Tomasi, were up in arms over the vacant houses in their community. The Tomasis soon sought permits to do work and began to fix up the house. 
 Brancatelli had met the Tomasis a few weeks earlier at a suburban hotel where a private company was auctioning off foreclosed homes. Brancatelli was there to scare off speculators. He passed out a flyer, which read in part: ''Dealing with the increasing problem of abandoned and vacant homes is at the forefront of our efforts to continue improving our community. . . . You should be aware that some of these homes were the source of incredible community concern and some resulted in criminal prosecution of mortgage brokers.'' 
 This is what Brancatelli calls ''the next tsunami'' -- companies and individuals who are buying foreclosed houses in bulk and then quickly selling them for a profit, often without making any repairs. The companies have appellations like Whatever Inc., Under Par Properties and Tin Cup Investments. Brancatelli thought all the equity had been wrung out of these properties, but clearly he was mistaken. 
 At this auction, Brancatelli was introduced to the Tomasis. They are both in their 40s. Before investing in real estate, Sheila Tomasi owned a small chain of clothing stores and Eric Tomasi was a mortgage broker and before that managed a chain of sporting-goods stores. Brancatelli found them surprisingly open, unlike some of the other wholesalers -- or ''bottom feeders'' as some derisively refer to them -- who wouldn't return his phone calls or e-mail queries. He invited the couple to a gathering of local housing activists, and they laidout their business plan. Brancatelli was curious to find out how anyone was making money in a market where houses were selling for a few thousand dollars on eBay. 
 The Tomasis said that they owned about 200 houses in Cleveland. (They purchased 2,000 homes last year, in 22 states.) They explained that they, unlike most other wholesalers, provide each buyer with the mechanicals -- pipes, a boiler, a furnace, all the basic materials that had been stripped -- that the purchaser would then be responsible for installing. Brancatelli derived some comfort from this description. From his background with a nonprofit housing group, he knew the theory that people who put sweat equity into a house will be more committed to its upkeep and to making the mortgage payments. The financing the Tomasis laid out, though, made Brancatelli squirm. The purchaser would pay $500 down and then make monthly payments of no more than $450, which was below local rental prices. But the interest rate was 10 or 11 percent. What most concerned Brancatelli was that the Tomasis eventually hope to package the mortgages and sell them to investors. 
 ''It's Groundhog Day all over again,'' Brancatelli remembers thinking to himself. ''Intuitively, it doesn't make any sense that a person from California would be buying hundreds of distressed properties in a place that's in a downward spiral. It has nothing but the makings of someone coming to pillage our neighborhood.'' But did that mean he shouldn't work with the Tomasis? If he considered them the enemy, he wondered, where would that get him? Eric Tomasi assured Brancatelli and the others that they had a shared interest. ''I want to put people in homes,'' he said. ''And you want to get homes occupied.'' 
 Pianka says Brancatelli faces a difficult choice: work with the Tomasis to make sure their properties are maintained and then sold to people who make the payments, or contest the Tomasis' efforts and lose any oversight. In December, while I was driving through Slavic Village with Brancatelli, we passed a Tomasi-owned house that wasn't secured. He left a message for Tomasi: ''Eric, calling about 6921 Gertrude. The door's open in the back. Give me a call. Hope things are well.'' Tomasi sent someone out to board it up. ''Even if I didn't like this guy, I don't have the ammo to fight him,'' Brancatelli later told me. ''Let's see if this is a model we can work with.'' 
 THERE ARE REASONS to be wary. During my time in Cleveland, I came across two properties owned by an investment company that goes by the name Thor Real Estate. The first I stumbled across while driving through the city's west side with Jay Westbrook, a city councilman. We passed a compact two-story house that had been vacant just a few weeks earlier. Westbrook peeked through the windows and, much to his surprise, saw some activity. A young, stocky man was inside installing new floors. He introduced himself as Oswan Jackson and told us he had just bought the house. He planned to move in with his wife, who was pregnant with their first child. He seemed disoriented, like many new homeowners, overwhelmed by the amount of work he needed to do. ''I didn't know there were code violations,'' he told Westbrook. The foundation was failing and the roof needed replacing. He said the purchase price was $24,580 for the house: $500 down and $290 a month. ''We'll make it work for you,'' Westbrook cheerfully told him. ''Welcome to the neighborhood.'' A few days later, after a colleague researched the property, Westbrook learned that the house had been in such poor condition that it was condemned three weeks after Jackson signed the contract -- and that Jackson owed the back taxes on the property, which amounted to $4,000. The last I spoke with Jackson, he planned to walk away from his new home.
 The second house was on East 113th Street. The front steps were missing; piles of brush and rubbish clogged the driveway. One side was tagged by a local gang, an indication that it had been used as a gathering place. Posted to the front porch was a sign that read: 500 Down, 295 a month. In January on Craigslist, the owner advertised it this way: ''I have a beautiful home at 3637 East 113th Street, Cleveland, OH 44105 Move in now! No credit check!'' One neighbor I spoke to wondered why anyone would want to buy it. ''It looks like there's nothing left for that house to give,'' the neighbor said. 
 The dispiriting part of the story behind these houses, certainly from Brancatelli's point of view, is that Thor Real Estate had been in partnership with the Tomasis. The Tomasis say they are now separate entities, but in court, the Tomasis have admitted that properties have been transferred between the two companies, and on occasion Eric Tomasi has offered to speak for Thor on code-violation cases. Once again, it's hard to know who owns what. 
 In January, Sheila Tomasi appeared in housing court. Sheila Tomasi is a personable, cheerful woman with high cheekbones and honey-streaked hair. The Tomasis purchased a house for their own use near Cleveland, and she was back for a couple of weeks to appear in court and to check on their properties. It wasn't the Tomasis' first time in Pianka's court, and on that day, five of the Tomasis' properties were cited for code violations. During her appearance, she told the court about a new owner, a single mother of seven, who had hired a contractor to install new pipes provided by the Tomasis. But it was a shoddy job. So, the Tomasis hired a plumber themselves and paid him $1,300 to redo the work. They added that charge to the woman's monthly mortgage payments. ''I can't go to sleep at night if we can't give someone a good start,'' Tomasi told me on an earlier occasion. ''You want to groom them and get all the hiccups out of owning a home: that they're getting all their improvements done, that they're paying their taxes. We want to make sure that everything's going O.K.''
 Tomasi also confirmed to the judge that they were considering the purchase of another 1,000 homes in the city. ''That's the nature of what's happening here,'' Pianka sighed. ''We feel in many ways helpless. 
 ''You've moved to Cleveland at least temporarily,'' he said. ''That's important, and taking care of your inventory properties, making sure you come into compliance with the law. There aren't enough inspectors to follow you around.'' Tomasi nodded. Pianka continued, ''If we find out you have a property and it's flying below the radar, there are going to be severe consequences.''
 ''Yes, your honor,'' Tomasi replied. 
 Then, as if thinking aloud, Pianka said, ''It is really tough being a city municipality because we're subject to international banks, national banks, acts of Congress, buyouts of mortgages. . . . We have no control over those entities, so I guess we're going to have to try to work with you.'' 
 He fined the Tomasis $50,000 but gave them time to either raze the properties or repair them. ''I'd like you to appreciate what we're dealing with in Cleveland,'' he told Tomasi. ''Now if you don't have some good reason, I expect a good check made out to the clerk.''
 Pianka left the bench shaking his head and later told me he better understood why Brancatelli was willing to work with the Tomasis. ''What are you to do?'' he said. 
 When I told Brancatelli about the court proceedings and about the Tomasis' mention of purchasing another 1,000 homes, Brancatelli said, ''It's just really strange times.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUBEN COX)(pg. MM29)
One out of: every 13 houses in Cleveland is vacant. Many of the properties are derelict, but speculators still buy them in bulk.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUBEN 30 COX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM30)
Scavengers frequently descend: on abandoned houses, removing appliances, plumbing fixtures and, as in this kitchen, copper pipes.(pg. MM31)
Jerome Jackson bought: Johnny's Beverage three years ago and started keeping an eye on the neighborhood. His store remains a rare sign of life.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUBEN 32 COX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM32)
(pg. MM33)
Cleveland plans to tear down: 1,700 houses that are abandoned and beyond repair, but the cost is steep -- about $8,000 a home.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUBEN 34 COX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM34)
 Judge Raymond Pianka: has tried to make lenders responsible for their actions in Cleveland, something they have fought in the State Legislature and in court.(pg. MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); CITIES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); POOR POPULATION (69%); FACTORY WORKERS (64%); COUNTIES (62%); POVERTY RATES (61%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (95%) OHIO, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009



334 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Subprime Europe

BYLINE: By LIAQUAT AHAMED. 
Liaquat Ahamed is the author of ''Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 THE 1931 collapse of the Austrian bank Creditanstalt provoked financial panic across Europe and almost single-handedly turned a bad downturn into the Great Depression. Last week, when I read about the brewing European banking crisis, I suddenly began to dread that history might be repeating itself. 
 You might think that my worries are a bit late. After all, losses on subprime mortgages in the United States have already caused a Depression-like banking collapse. Well, believe it or not, Europe's current crisis is scarier. For while losses on Eastern European debts may be only a small fraction of those on subprime mortgages, the continent's problems are politically harder to solve, and their consequences may prove to be much worse. 
 Much as in our subprime mess, Eastern Europe's problems began with easy credit. From 2004 to 2008 Eastern Europe had its own bubble, fueled by the ready availability of international credit. In recent years countries like Bulgaria and Latvia borrowed annually the equivalent of more than 20 percent of their gross domestic product from abroad. By 2008, 13 countries that were once part of the Soviet empire had accumulated a collective debt to foreign banks or in foreign currencies of more than $1 trillion. Some of the money went into investment, much of it into consumption or real estate. 
 When the music stopped last year and banks retrenched, the flow of new capital to Eastern Europe came to an abrupt halt, and then reversed direction. This credit crunch hit the region just as its main export markets in Western Europe were going into free fall. Moreover, with so much of the debt denominated in foreign currencies, everyone in Eastern Europe has been scrambling to get their hands on foreign exchange and local currencies have collapsed.
 Most of the Eastern European debt is held by Western European banks. It also turned out that some of the biggest lenders to Eastern Europe were Austrian and Italian banks -- for example, loans by Austrian banks to Eastern European countries are almost equivalent to 70 percent of Austria's G.D.P. Now, Italy and Austria can't afford to bail out even their own banks.
 The debt crisis in Eastern Europe is much more than an economic problem. The wrenching decline in the standard of living caused by this crisis is provoking social unrest. American subprime borrowers who have had their houses foreclosed on are not -- at least not yet -- rioting in the streets. Workers in Eastern Europe are. The roots of democracy in the region are not deep and the specter of right-wing nationalism remains a threat. 
 So what is to be done? The potential approaches essentially mirror those that have been attempted in response to America's subprime problem.
 The first approach is to deal with the short-run liquidity problem. In the same way that the Federal Reserve expanded its own lending last year to compensate for the collapse in private lending, the International Monetary Fund is providing funds to Eastern Europe, and Hungary has proposed that the European Central Bank lend to borrowers who use non-euro assets as collateral. But given the state of the rest of the world, Eastern Europe will not be able to export its way out of its troubles in the immediate future.
 The debts of many Eastern European countries and some banks will have to be written off. Ultimately, as in the case of the American subprime debts, taxpayers will have to foot the bill. But which taxpayers? The taxpayers of Austria and Italy certainly can't. So the burden will have to fall on the rich countries of Europe, especially Germany and France. 
 There are two approaches to taxpayer-financed bailouts. The first is to go case by case. This is being proposed by the Germans. The problem here, as we discovered after the Bear Stearns rescue last March, is that the case-by-case approach does nothing to establish confidence in the system and prevent contagion. 
 The best choice would be a fund that provides bailout money and a protective umbrella to banks and countries, even those that don't seem to need it now. Hungary has proposed the creation of such a fund with roughly $240 billion at its disposal. Though the proposal has already been rejected by stronger European economies, the American experience of last year in which the Treasury finally had to ask Congress for $700 billion for a similar fund suggests that this is where Europe will end up. 
 The response of the American government to the financial crisis has been criticized for being too slow and inadequate. But at least we have a federal budget, the national cohesion and the political machinery to get New Yorkers and Midwesterners to pay for the mistakes of homeowners in California and Florida, or to bail out a bank based in North Carolina. There is no such mechanism in Europe. It is going to require leadership of the highest order from officials in Germany and France to persuade their thrifty and prudent taxpayers to bail out foolhardy Austrian banks or Hungarian homeowners. 
 The Great Depression was largely caused by a failure of intellectual will. In other words, the men in charge simply did not understand how the economy worked. Now, it is the failure of political will that could lead to economic cataclysm. Nowhere is this danger more real than in Europe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); BANK FAILURES (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); RIOTS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); AUSTRIA (91%); LATVIA (58%); BULGARIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



335 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: For Sale: The $100 House

BYLINE: By TOBY BARLOW. 
Toby Barlow is the author of ''Sharp Teeth.''

DATELINE: Detroit 

 BODY:
 RECENTLY, at a dinner party, a friend mentioned that he'd never seen so many outsiders moving into town. This struck me as a highly suspect statement. After all, we were talking about Detroit, home of corrupt former mayor Kwame Kilpatrick, beleaguered General Motors and the 0-16 Lions. Compared with other cities' buzzing, glittering skylines, ours sits largely abandoned, like some hulking beehive devastated by colony collapse. Who on earth would move here?
 Then again, I myself had moved to Detroit, from Brooklyn. For $100,000, I bought a town house that sits downtown in the largest and arguably the most beautiful Mies van der Rohe development ever built, an island of perfect modernism forgotten by the rest of the world. 
 Two other guests that night, a couple in from Chicago, had also just invested in some Detroit real estate. That weekend Jon and Sara Brumit bought a house for $100.
 Ah, the mythical $100 home. We hear about these low-priced ''opportunities'' in down-on-their-luck cities like Detroit, Baltimore and Cleveland, but we never meet anyone who has taken the plunge. Understandable really, for if they were actually worth anything then they would cost real money, right? Who would do such a preposterous thing? 
 A local couple, Mitch Cope and Gina Reichert, started the ball rolling. An artist and an architect, they recently became the proud owners of a one-bedroom house in East Detroit for just $1,900. Buying it wasn't the craziest idea. The neighborhood is almost, sort of, half-decent. Yes, the occasional crack addict still commutes in from the suburbs but a large, stable Bangladeshi community has also been moving in. 
 So what did $1,900 buy? The run-down bungalow had already been stripped of its appliances and wiring by the city's voracious scrappers. But for Mitch that only added to its appeal, because he now had the opportunity to renovate it with solar heating, solar electricity and low-cost, high-efficiency appliances.
 Buying that first house had a snowball effect. Almost immediately, Mitch and Gina bought two adjacent lots for even less and, with the help of friends and local youngsters, dug in a garden. Then they bought the house next door for $500, reselling it to a pair of local artists for a $50 profit. When they heard about the $100 place down the street, they called their friends Jon and Sarah.
 Admittedly, the $100 home needed some work, a hole patched, some windows replaced. But Mitch plans to connect their home to his mini-green grid and a neighborhood is slowly coming together. 
 Now, three homes and a garden may not sound like much, but others have been quick to see the potential. A group of architects and city planners in Amsterdam started a project called the ''Detroit Unreal Estate Agency'' and, with Mitch's help, found a property around the corner. The director of a Dutch museum, Van Abbemuseum, has called it ''a new way of shaping the urban environment.'' He's particularly intrigued by the luxury of artists having little to no housing costs. Like the unemployed Chinese factory workers flowing en masse back to their villages, artists in today's economy need somewhere to flee.
 But the city offers a much greater attraction for artists than $100 houses. Detroit right now is just this vast, enormous canvas where anything imaginable can be accomplished. From Tyree Guyton's Heidelberg Project (think of a neighborhood covered in shoes and stuffed animals and you're close) to Matthew Barney's ''Ancient Evenings'' project (think Egyptian gods reincarnated as Ford Mustangs and you're kind of close), local and international artists are already leveraging Detroit's complex textures and landscapes to their own surreal ends. 
 In a way, a strange, new American dream can be found here, amid the crumbling, semi-majestic ruins of a half-century's industrial decline. The good news is that, almost magically, dreamers are already showing up. Mitch and Gina have already been approached by some Germans who want to build a giant two-story-tall beehive. Mitch thinks he knows just the spot for it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOPHIA MARTINECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHILDREN (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); SUBURBS (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (61%); COCAINE (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



336 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: All Those Coins Falling in Slots

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
 ON a recent Saturday night at the Empire City Casino at Yonkers Raceway, Mary Ann and Neil A. Makatenas were playing the slots with new purpose now that they are living on a single salary. 
 Mrs. Makatenas, 52, had lost her job as an office worker several months ago. She and her husband traveled to Yonkers from Lakewood, N.J., to join more than 5,000 gamblers that evening to try their luck.
 ''Times are tough,'' said Mr. Makatenas, 58, a product tester for AT&T, ''but maybe tonight we'll get lucky.''
 At another video gaming machine in the Art Deco-style casino, Carmen A. Rivera, 62, a retired hospital worker from the Bronx, was more realistic about the chances of hitting the jackpot. ''I've never won big, and I don't expect to, although I've lost plenty,'' she said while feeding coins into a game called Spam. ''So I come every weekend, just for the fun of it.'' 
 From Empire City's opening in late 2006 through last month, about $1 billion in revenue has been generated at the casino and Yonkers Raceway. Nearly $50 million of it has been passed along to the City of Yonkers, mostly for education.
 In all, 4,800 one-armed bandits, with names like Black Velvet, Wild Eyes and Love and War, blink away and take in money from 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. seven days a week in the windowless, cavernous casino, which stretches 500 feet from end to end -- longer than a football field. The second floor of the 250,000-square-foot limestone building has 500 more gaming machines and several restaurants -- one overlooking Yonkers Raceway, the longtime racetrack here. 
 The crowds and earnings have grown over the last 28 months, although not as fast as before the Wall Street meltdown last fall, said Robert J. Galterio, the vice president and general manager of Yonkers Raceway. During the 12 months ending Jan. 31, Empire City generated $489.1 million, making it the runaway revenue generator among the eight racetrack casinos, or racinos, in New York. 
 This perennially cash-starved city receives about $23 million a year from the casino and racetrack. Up to $20 million is earmarked for education; the Yonkers School District budget this year is $484 million. The city also receives $2 million annually in payments in lieu of taxes from the casino and track, along with sales tax and $1 million to cover some city services.
 Still, Mayor Philip A. Amicone said he thinks Yonkers should get more, especially since the operation is thriving. 
 Mr. Amicone said he wants the $20 million cap for schools to be lifted, especially since a bill has been introduced in the State Legislature to extend the track's hours on some days and add new types of gaming machines. 
 ''If it happens,'' he said, ''then Yonkers should get a significant amount of that'' new revenue.
 Empire City has a big economic impact. It employs more than 800 people and, after the Board of Education and the two Yonkers hospitals, St. John's Riverside and St. Joseph's Medical Center, is one of the city's largest employers, said David Simpson, a spokesman for the mayor.
 Like some bettors -- Kenny Freeman, an owner of several bars in East Islip on Long Island, won more than $8,000 in less than an hour on two side-by-side machines -- the 110-year-old Yonkers Raceway also seems to have gotten lucky of late. 
 Seabiscuit, the famed thoroughbred, won at the Yonkers track in the 1930s. But struggling in the late 1990s to survive as a track for harness racing only, it closed in 2004 for 18 months and $285 million in renovations, reopening just after the casino in the fall of 2006.
 Business is booming, despite or perhaps because of the recession, said Mr. Galterio, who has seen almost three decades of economic ups and downs at Yonkers Raceway. Frank J. Drucker, a spokesman for the track, said he thought it was a bit of both, noting that Empire City is closer to New York City and its suburbs than are casinos in Atlantic City or Connecticut, for example.
 Mayor Amicone said he was troubled that most of the 97 acres of land surrounding the track remain undeveloped.
 ''That's an awful lot of prime real estate that could go to good use, for hotels, condos, rentals, shops, a restaurant,'' he said. ''There's not that much land available anymore for development in lower Westchester.''
 But residents who live near the track, at the junction of two major highways -- the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway and the Cross County Parkway -- worry that even more traffic congestion would be generated by new construction, said Lorraine L. Palais, president of the Lincoln Park Taxpayers Association. The 400-member civic group was formed when the track opened for harness racing in the 1950s. 
 The city stopped assigning traffic police to the area recently, citing budget issues. 
 ''Now they're talking about extending hours at the track,'' said Mrs. Palais, who is also president of another community group that meets with the police about racetrack safety issues. ''It will only get worse. We need to see police officers standing at corners to deter crime.''
 She acknowledged that there have been few police matters in the neighborhood related to the casino and track. Capt. Fred W. Hellthaler, commander of the precinct that includes Empire City, said the Yonkers police were called to the track 24 times in February -- for motor vehicle accidents in the parking lot, disputes between individuals in the lot and three attempted break-ins involving cars.
 Empire City has its own police force, which monitors the buildings and grounds but not the surrounding neighborhoods. Mr. Galterio would not say how many officers are employed or whether they carried arms.
 Empire City earns 52 percent of the state's total gaming revenues. According to a report by the Spectrum Gaming Group, a Linwood, N.J., research and consulting firm for the gaming industry, Empire City is the third-largest earner among gaming sites on the East Coast. Only Foxwoods (which earned $723.9 million for the 12 months ending Jan. 31) and Mohegan Sun (which earned $837 million), both in Connecticut, earned more. The highest earner in New Jersey for the period was Harrah's in Atlantic City at $445.7 million. 
 In addition to benefiting the track's investors -- among them, Timothy J. Rooney, its president and a son of the Pittsburgh Steelers' founding father, Arthur J. Rooney Sr. -- the increased earnings have also meant larger purses for harness races and, as a result, more competitive horses, Mr. Galterio said. 
 For those betting on the trotters and the gaming machines, a night at the races can be pretty economical, said Ralph R. Battista, 27, a chef from New Rochelle, and his date, Kerri A. McPhillips, 23, a Yonkers resident who works for a marketing and advertising company. They were dining in the glassed-in restaurant overlooking the track and bet $25 in all on two winning horses, Lifesong and Livitluvitdreamit. The bets didn't pay off big, but Mr. Battista said he wasn't concerned.
 ''Everything shouldn't always be about money,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BETTING: Undeterred by the current economic climate, gamblers playing slot machines crowd into the Empire City Casino in Yonkers, and below, pacers on the racetrack.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 BETTORS: Mary Ann and Neil A. Makatenas, who traveled to Empire City Casino at Yonkers Raceway from Lakewood, N.J., to play the one-armed bandits.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); CASINOS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); SALES TAX (71%); BUDGETS (71%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (65%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



337 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3746 words

HEADLINE: Riding the Rails

BYLINE: By ANDY ISAACSON. 
ANDY ISAACSON lives in New York and Berkeley, Calif., but this was his first train trip across the United States.

 BODY:
SOMEWHERE on the west side of Illinois, the Amish men broke out a deck of Skip-Bo cards and I joined them as the cafe car attendant, using an iPod and a set of portable speakers, broadcast Eckhart Tolle, author of ''A New Earth,'' discoursing on the virtues of stillness. 
 ''Life gets discombobulating,'' the attendant said, calmly. ''This helps.''
 On both sides of the train window, American scenery unfolded. A dirty layer of ice and snow subdued the still cropland to the distant horizon. At the next table a woman stuck her nose in a novel; a college kid pecked at a laptop. Overlaying all this, a soundtrack: choo-k-choo-k-choo-k-choo-k-choo-k -- the metronomic rhythm of an Amtrak train rolling down the line to California, a sound that called to mind an old camera reel moving frames of images along a linear track, telling a story. 
 The six Amish men were in their mid-20s, and they were returning home to Kolona, Iowa, after a three-week cross-country tour. They had especially liked the Creation Museum, in Petersburg, Ky., and Niagara Falls. As we rolled across white plains, they pointed out which plots grew beans and which grew corn. To my eye, the dormant land revealed few clues. 
 Around the train car lounged Americans traveling for work and others for family, people for whom train travel is a necessity and those for whom it's merely quaint, first-time riders and probably even a few ''foamers'' -- the nickname that train workers privately give the buffs who salivate over the sight of a locomotive. 
 I had ridden long-distance trains in India and China but never across my own country. I suppose that after two years of receiving images saturated in red, white and blue from all corners of the nation, I wanted to make my own. The fading glow of the Inauguration, I thought -- a moment for national unity and new beginning, both imagined and real -- would be a good light in which to meet the country again. And it was winter, after all; I didn't feel like driving.
 With every uptick in gas prices, Americans in general are thinking less about driving. With each degree of global warming, trains become even more sensible. And with each new surcharge and each new item of clothing one is required to remove to board an airplane -- and with every small-town commercial airport and cabin amenity that vanishes forever -- the rails beckon. Last year, Amtrak set all-time ridership records. 
 Traveling cross-country by train takes time, but less than I expected: within four days, one crosses the Hudson River and reaches San Francisco Bay at Emeryville, Calif. I gave myself a week, stopping in Chicago, Denver and, for variety, a remote town in Nevada that had a nice ring to its name. 
 THE Amtrak Cardinal rolled out of New York's Pennsylvania Station slightly before dawn on a frigid January morning. I had booked a roomette -- a cozy compartment just larger than a Japanese capsule that converts from two facing seats into bunk beds. The attendant asked if I wanted a wake-up call the next morning, pointed out the showers down the hall and said that breakfast would be served after Trenton. 
 The roomette's decor -- blue curtains, a (sealed) metal ashtray on the armrest -- evoked the era of Pan Am. On the upholstered seats rested two hangers, two pillows and a crisp copy of The New York Times, which on that morning featured a photo of the ex-Illinois governor, Rod Blagojevich, projecting an image of false calm. Chicago, all aboard.
 On a two-dimensional map, the crosshatched lines that represent railroad tracks resemble stitches binding patches of textured fabric. Essentially, these remnants of America's rail network predate 1910, and unless you're on it, you scarcely notice it -- crossing under our freeways, passing through once-thriving rural towns that today's highways avoid. We consider train tracks indifferently, the way we do electricity wires: as behind-the-scenes infrastructure, a ubiquitous but background feature of our landscape.
 At least this is how it seemed en route to Washington, as the train rolled past unkempt backyards and graffitied factory walls, icy ball fields and the back doors of crumbling buildings. America presents itself to the streets; the tracks take in a less manicured backside. How refreshing a sight. 
 Our consumer society may still rely on trains to transport things, but those things are pitched to drivers in cars, not to passengers on trains. And so, as early as New Jersey, I realized something that would only feel remarkable a few days later, in the Nevada desert: it's still possible to travel 3,585 miles across the United States without being the target of billboards, golden arches or absurdly large twine balls. The rails offer a view onto Unbranded America -- the land as it was. 
 The Cardinal makes 31 stops in 27 hours on a southerly, U-shaped path from New York to Chicago. It's not the most direct of Amtrak's routes, but it charts a course through textbook American history: Baltimore; Washington; Manassas, Va.; Cincinnati. 
 At Philadelphia, a woman named Mary Ellen Phillips Belcher and her grown daughter Ladonna settled into the roomette across from mine. They were returning home to Kentucky after visiting a relative in suburban Pennsylvania. They usually drive; the train ride was satisfying a long-held curiosity. 
 Life stories and first names have a way of surfacing between strangers. Mary Ellen lived her girlhood days in Junction City, Ky., with four brothers and a single mom, along the old Louisville and Nashville Railroad tracks. 
 ''We didn't have money to buy cigarettes, so we'd get us a coffee can and collect the butts thrown off the train,'' she said. ''Mother would always leave a skillet of cornbread and brown beans outside the house for the hobos coming through. Evidently, they had passed word on to their friends that Mother was a kind lady. She'd never have enough food for us, but she'd always have something for somebody.''
 ''I said, 'One of these days I'm going to ride a train to remember Mother and those hobos' '' she told me, in way that moved me. ''I guess I had to be 65 before I took that 'venture.'' 
 Behind her, Washington's monuments drifted slowly across the glass, and as we passed the Capitol, I imagined a bureaucrat inside considering what to do about Amtrak. As a quasi-public rail service, Amtrak stays afloat with a little more than $1 billion a year from the federal government. Last September, for the first time since 1997, Congress approved an Amtrak authorization bill that could nearly double it. The stimulus package President Obama signed in February includes $8 billion for high-speed and intercity rail projects, and one would think that so long as ''Amtrak Joe'' Biden holds high office, trains will continue to get some love. 
 After Charlottesville, Va., I planted myself in the lounge car, which divides the coach and sleeper cars and serves the social function of the train's town square or neighborhood pub -- an egalitarian place for conversation and chips. 
 ''D'ya see that doe?'' a man from Virginia asked me, pointing outside. ''Still as can be.'' 
 I was curious about whether he hunted. He laughed and said, ''Don't need to now; my boy does it for me.'' 
 A man nearby overheard and chuckled. ''I used to,'' he said, ''before I started huntin' the two-legged kind.''
 ''I wish they had a gambling car.''
 ''At least they got beer.''
 ''Uh-huh.''
 Along the tracks, a tranquil scene of rolling farmland speckled with horses eventually became steep slopes of forest in a haze of swirling flurries. I asked the two men if these were the Allegheny Mountains. 
 ''Outside of here, they call them the Appalaychians,'' one of the men told me. ''We call them the Appalaachians. Hell, I just call them swampy, wooded-ass areas.''
 Meals on board are white-tableclothed affairs; however, these days the $22 flat iron steaks are served on plastic replicas of Amtrak's former china. Passengers are seated together. For dinner, I enjoyed my cheese ravioli across from an Amish man from Minnesota who was escorting his wife home from hernia surgery in South Carolina. (Many Amish are uninsured, he told me, and some take trains to Mexico for less costly medical care.) 
 After he finished, one of the attendants -- not the 27-year veteran with eyebrows painted red-and-blue Amtrak stripes and a customized ''Amtrak'' belt buckle sparkling with bling, but the other -- seated a couple from suburban Colorado. He was a retired defense contractor; she, a former Delta flight attendant. 
 ''The food's better here,'' she said, a remark I took as authoritative. Cutting into her baked potato, she added, ''You couldn't get this on a plane.'' 
 By the time we rolled into Ashland, Ky., at 11 p.m., the temperature had plummeted enough to freeze the track switch, waylaying us at the platform for two hours. I passed the time in the lounge car with four other travelers, all quick to make acquaintance. One, from the Bronx, was seeking a football coaching job in Arizona; another, from Indiana, had just visited relatives in Virginia. 
 Every so often, someone would look at a watch and feign complaint. But really, it was half-hearted; on a long-distance train, it seems, the fluid movement across space induces a surrender to the natural unfolding of time. 
 At some hour during a fitful sleep, the heat in my roomette stopped working. The attendant call button didn't work, either. I froze until morning. Even if mine was an aging, government-subsidized room on wheels, I wondered whether after paying more than $200 for that night, it wasn't reasonable to have certain expectations. 
 Before it was possible to travel across the troposphere, nearly all cross-country journeys passed through Chicago. I spent a night in the city, and the next afternoon boarded the California Zephyr. 
 New relationships quickly formed in the observation car, which on the double-decker, Airstream-like Zephyr was outfitted with curved glass walls and padded chairs. Passengers lounged together, sharing snacks or packed beverages, and making commentary as the landscape -- cold metal silos, lonely farmhouses on windswept plots -- passed across the great picture window in high definition.
 Under streaks of pink and orange, we crossed the icy Mississippi River on an old steel bridge. Dozens of bald eagles, pointed out by the conductor in an announcement, perched on the western bank, presumably fishing. We rumbled along the main streets of small but once prosperous Iowa towns and glimpsed architectural treasures like Omaha's former Union and Burlington train stations, which are now, sadly but symbolically, a museum and a condo development.
 We were making good time, which is not a reputation Amtrak usually enjoys. Seventy percent of Amtrak's service -- basically everywhere but in the Northeast -- operates on freight railroad tracks, where inefficiencies cause frequent delays. According to federal law, but not always in practice, passenger trains have priority. Two years ago, Union Pacific agreed to reduce the speed restrictions it imposes on Amtrak trains while it does track maintenance, but a Department of Transportation report last September said that little had changed. 
 Conductors told me it has, some. But for now, the crippling economy has significantly lessened freight traffic across the country. One conductor told me that he trades stocks based on looking out the window; when he sees less freight, he sells. 
 So owing in part to the recession, we coasted at dawn -- ahead of schedule -- into Union Station in Denver, where a friend picked me up for a quick drive into the mountains for a day of skiing. It felt good to jump off the train: even with utter freedom to move about the cabin and an onboard minimart, the mind and body, before long, yearn for solid ground. 
 After riding my own set of metal edges through ankle-high powder, I slept across from the station at the upscale Oxford Hotel. In this 1891 institution, I could briefly reimagine the romance of cross-country rail travel (and where, as an Amtrak passenger, I got a special $150 rate, compared with $210). 
 In the morning, I boarded another westbound Zephyr. Leaving Denver, the rails snake through 29 tunnels on their ascent into the Rockies. In a single bend, we turned from the great brown plains, and the dominant impression of America -- which 2,000 miles east had been industrial and, later, agricultural -- suddenly turned geological. 
 We passed old mines and mountain ranges, red rock canyons and ranches blanketed by snow, glistening under the winter sun. For hundreds of miles, the train coursed along icy green stretches of the Colorado River accessible only by raft or rail. 
 Vacationers heading for resorts debarked at the Glenwood Springs and Fraser-Winter Park stations, and a man who had introduced himself as Oscar -- a Mexican migrant from North Carolina -- got off at Grand Junction to pursue a restaurant job. 
 I sat with Steve Nykorchuk, a man from Pittsfield, Mass., with a scraggly gray beard and cane, who rides from Albany to Reno five times a year to play the penny slots. Before every trip, his 90-year-old mother slips him an envelope with spending money, and every time he feels bad about taking it. When he arrives in Reno, people say, ''Here comes the Train Man.'' 
 ''I come so often they know exactly what beer I'm drinking,'' he said. ''That's funny, to come 3,000 miles and people know what you're drinking.'' 
 As Colorado's majesty faded into the Utah night, I drank coffee with Ben Kinsinger, a kindly, 63-year-old Amish butcher from Lancaster, Pa. Every February, he and his wife ride to the country's warmer climes. In Phoenix, they visit the airport to watch planes take off and land, and on the train he likes to chat with passengers, like me, who never visit Lancaster. I was touched watching him connect with a young couple from Nepal. 
 ''No electricity, stitching clothes -- wow!'' the Nepalese girl said. ''That would be like giving up everything, like a nun.'' 
 On the way to the dining car the next morning, Ben patted me. ''The cows are milked, the horses are fed,'' he said, jokingly. ''It's time for breakfast!''
 But instead, I got off the train in Winnemucca, Nev., a small town dwarfed by big sky and high mountain desert. And for no particular reason, really. (''We don't usually get many Winnemuccas,'' the conductor said as I got off.) But train routes are about connecting -- and appreciating -- the points in between, the country's negative spaces, those places that urban dwellers might deride as ''middle of nowhere.'' 
 A century ago, Basque sheepherders jumped off at Winnemucca by the hundreds, and that evening, I had Picon Punches and lamb shank with their descendants at the 110-year-old Martin Hotel, a wooden bar and restaurant beside the tracks with scrapbook-lined walls and a small claim to still being a boardinghouse -- a retired man named Phil occupied a room upstairs. 
 Today, many of the Basque work for gold mines outside town. The flow of Picon Punches follows the price of gold, and these days, both are up. I slept the night at a cheap motel after playing a penny slot at Winners Casino, and caught the next Zephyr rolling through. 
 In dawn's light, the train streaked across the Great Basin Desert, blurring the view of tufted yellow shrubs flanking the rails but framing the white-dusted, mineral-stained mountains beyond in an unfolding panorama across the observation car windows. Choo-k-choo-k-choo-k-choo-k-choo-k: that hypnotic rhythm and empty Nevada landscape stilled the mind to a slow, meandering drift. I looked around the observation car to see four other passengers sitting silently; a fifth gazed out the window, picking his guitar.
 In Reno, a dozen gamblers boarded, and we climbed to the Sierra Nevada pass named after the hapless westbound journeyers who ate some of their own to last the winter of 1846. Forty years later, the Donner Party would have had a transcontinental train. The Zephyr's engineer made steady, giant slalom turns along that original route, weaving through the snowy backcountry on a 7,000-foot descent toward the shining sea.
 Docents from the California State Railroad Museum in Sacramento, who regularly ride the train back and forth to Reno, filled in the passing scenery with history. Chinese laborers, they told us, forged much of this mountain route. 
 AS the train bisected California, the impressions mirrored the country east of the Continental Divide: craggy mountains and the ghosts of gold mines became fertile cropland until once again we rolled through industrial yards, these lining San Francisco Bay. 
 Almost every veteran conductor I talked with on the trip lamented that something of train travel's former magic had slipped away. Yet I witnessed something very precious that remains. 
 Mr. Kinsinger, the Amish butcher, had remarked in astonishment: ''I met a man who said he spent 12 hours on an airplane, sitting right next to someone, and they never said a word to each other!'' A former New York City cop-turned-massage-therapist from Oregon, who had ridden the Zephyr with her husband, carried cards printed with their contact information, and the headline: ''There Are No Strangers on a Train.'' 
 Abraham Lincoln's idealism about the first transcontinental railroad's forging national unity may have been bound up in political pragmatism and economic ambition, but a core sentiment remains true: as a train crosses borders, the boundaries between its riders dissolve. Those crosshatched lines on the map stitching the country together are also a metaphor. I witnessed community and saw everybody cherishing it. 
 At least for now, train travel remains in what the former flight attendant I met called an ''age of innocence,'' by which she meant that you can keep your shoes on to board. It is a relapse into a simpler time. 
 With some cash, Amtrak could add modern amenities like Wi-Fi and still preserve that slower pace that makes train travel a salve for our modern psyche, the perpetual motion lulling the rider to stillness, like a rocking cradle, and that hushing sound: choo-k-choo-k-choo-k-choo-k-choo-k. 
 SPECTACULAR TRIPS ON 2 RAILS
 Trains continue to inspire wanderlust, and around the world, several trains run on particularly scenic routes, across continents or on small slices of inviting terrain. 
 THE CARDINAL AND THE ZEPHYR
 An Amtrak cross-country trip from New York to San Francisco can begin with the Cardinal, which runs three days a week from New York's Pennsylvania Station to Chicago, heading south before turning west. From Chicago, the California Zephyr runs daily to Emeryville, Calif. (buses take riders into San Francisco), using double-decker trains with wraparound windows in an observation car. 
 The full trip, which can take less than four days, journeys in textbook American history and geography: the industrial Northeast, Washington, Civil War Virginia, Chicago, coal towns and cornfields, Rocky Mountain meadows and red rock canyons, the stark Nevada desert, the Sierra Nevada and San Francisco Bay.
 Fares begin at $84 for the Cardinal and $145 for the Zephyr (www.amtrak.com; 800-872-7245). Sleeper upgrades -- two-bed roomettes to family-size bedrooms -- start at $184 a person on the Cardinal and $262 on the Zephyr, and include meals. Multistop itineraries should be booked when you reserve. For extended touring, USA Rail Passes allow segments in three durations (eight segments in 15 days, $389; 12 segments in 30 days, $579; 18 segments in 45 days, $749; sleeper upgrades are extra). 
 THE CANADIAN, CANADA
 The Canadian, VIA Rail's cross-country service, traverses the lakelands of northern Ontario, the Saskatchewan and Manitoba prairies, and the soaring Canadian Rockies on a spectacular three-day, four-night journey from Toronto to Vancouver. The refurbished 1950s Art Deco trains have two classes: Comfort (off-peak from 574 Canadian dollars, about $452 at 1.27 Canadian dollars to the U.S. dollar), with reclining seats, a domed viewing car and a coffee shop (drinks and meals are extra); and Silver & Blue (from 993 dollars), which includes sleeping accommodations, meals, a plush bar/lounge and a private sightseeing car. With 48 hours' notice, passengers can request unscheduled stops on some segments. Through March 31, regular peak fares for travel before May 31 are half price (888-842-7245; www.viarail.ca).
 THE OVERLANDER, NEW ZEALAND
 The Overlander's 423-mile, 12-hour journey from Auckland to Wellington down the lush spine of New Zealand's North Island passes farming hamlets, snow-capped volcanoes and steep river gorges. The train runs on a line built in 1908 with engineering features like the Raurimu Spiral, with two tunnels, three horseshoe curves and a complete circle. The train runs daily from December through April, and on weekends from May through November; one-way fares start at 89 New Zealand dollars, $44.50 at 2 local dollars to the U.S. dollar (64-4-495-0775; www.tranzscenic.co.nz).
 GLACIER EXPRESS, SWITZERLAND
 This breathtaking, seven-and-a-half-hour journey from St.-Moritz or Davos to Zermatt through a Swiss alpine wonderland rollercoasters across 291 bridges, through 91 tunnels and over the Rhone and Rhine Rivers and the 6,670-foot-high Oberal Pass. The postcard views include the Matterhorn. One-way fares begin at 143 Swiss francs, about $120 at 1.19 francs to the dollar; 184 francs includes a three-course lunch (41-27-927-7777; www.glacierexpress.ch; but for fewer than 10 tickets, passengers must go to a travel agency, a main railway station or www.raileurope.com).
 THE BERGEN RAILWAY, NORWAY
 From Oslo, this scenic seven-hour journey ascends to the mountain resort towns of Geilo, Gol and Nesbyen and across the vast Hardanger plateau on the way to the charming port city of Bergen. One-way fares start at 199 kroner, about $28 at 7 kroner to the dollar (47-23-15-15-15; www.nsb.no).
 EL CHEPE, MEXICO
 The 408-mile, 14-hour Chihuahua al Pacifico Railway, or El Chepe, links the Pacific coast in Sinaloa with the Chihuahua desert on a spectacularly rugged route though the Copper Canyon. Between Los Mochis and Chihuahua, it climbs 8,000 feet on 37 bridges and through 86 tunnels. It runs daily; one-way economy class is 854 pesos, $57 at 15 pesos to the dollar, first express is 1,708 pesos (888-484-1623; www.chepe.com.mx).

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 8 about a cross-country trip on Amtrak misspelled the name of the Iowa hometown of six Amish men who took a three-week trip. It is Kalona, not Kolona. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The California Zephyr runs along remote stretches of the Colorado River in the Rockies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY ISAACSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR1)
FROM LEFT: Union Station in Washington is a stop on the Cardinal. California Zephyr passengers watch skiers at the Winter Park resort in Colorado.
In the Zephyr's observation car, it's as easy making new relationships as it is viewing the changing landscape.
FROM LEFT: Gerald Brock commutes weekends on the Cardinal, calling it ''therapeutic.'' Mike Olano owns the Winnemucca Hotel in Nevada. Ben Kinsinger, an Amish butcher from Pennsylvania.
 FROM LEFT: Remnants of an abandoned rail maintenance depot in Nevada. A passenger on the Cardinal takes a smoking break in Ashland, Ky. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY ISAACSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR9) MAP Route of the California Zephyr 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WRITERS (72%); AIRPORTS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



338 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Flight

 BODY:
Jon Mooallem's article (Feb. 22) is yet another poignant and frightening reminder of how immensely destructive a force human overpopulation is, especially when that force is multiplied many times over by modern technology and economic policies bent on perpetual growth. Acknowledging these root causes of our many environmental problems for what they are is an essential first step toward remedying them. 
 A small but growing number of economists is doing just that. They conclude that what we ought to be doing is transitioning from a growth economy to a steady-state economy, while stepping up family-planning assistance to impoverished nations.
 ELIZABETH BURDASH Earlysville, Va.
 The groups involved in rearing and teaching captive-raised whooping cranes to migrate are well intentioned and dedicated to keeping these magnificent birds extant. As a biologist, however, I found that the article raised a basic and important question: In the overall context of the earth's evolution, is it truly beneficial to go to such extreme lengths to preserve a species that appears maladapted to its current environment?
 Humans are an integral part of the earth's ecology, and the consequences of human behavior are just as much a part of evolution as species-altering events that occur in nature in the absence of human intervention (e.g., volcanoes). By artificially maintaining marginally viable species, are we working against the natural progression of evolution by effectively preventing more suitable species from developing? While it is sad to lose even one species, we need to maintain realistic evolutionary expectations. If the declining whooping crane were allowed to become extinct, would not another, presumably better-adapted species fill the vacant ecological niche? Technological advances have provided us with the sophisticated tools necessary to prolong a given species' reign on earth, but is it ecologically sensible to try to ''create'' cranes or any of the many at-risk species that will survive in the wild?
 ALISON TANNENBAUM Chelmsford, Mass.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHERINE WOLKOFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); BIRDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WILDLIFE (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); FAMILY PLANNING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



339 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2182 words

HEADLINE: The Wild Bunch

BYLINE: By ROBERT SULLIVAN. 
Robert Sullivan is the author of ''The Thoreau You Don't Know: What the Prophet of Environmentalism Really Meant,'' to be published this month.

 BODY:
SOMETIMES, when I am biking, I remember the '80s, and I shudder. I remember, in other words, when biking was an extreme sport, when, if you were a biker, you had a lot of locks and a lot more nerve.
 Just the other day, when I was enjoying the bike lane down Clinton Street in my neighborhood, Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, I stopped at a red light. And after the crossing guard smiled and chatted with me, after the cars pulled up alongside me and did not honk, I experienced a flashback from 1987: my regular trip from West 113th Street to Central Park, navigating honks and taunts, the mayhem that was then on Cathedral Parkway. 
 In those days, when I got into the park, I thought I had really achieved something, in terms not of stamina or increased heart rate, but of survival. Riding a bike in New York was like spelunking or white-water rafting, and in those days, bikers traveled best at night, when traffic was light. In the absence of bike lanes, we looked for parks to move through; we stayed on the side streets, and most New Yorkers then did not believe bikers should be anywhere in the city, much less on the streets. This was what I was remembering the other day when, as the light changed, I began to pedal and a biker went racing by and nearly killed me.
 Well, not literally. Literally, he only scared the bejesus out of me and brushed my arm, no big deal. The crossing guard shook her head. ''Jerk,'' she said.
 When I got to Atlantic Avenue, a street I would be nervous about crossing if I were in an armored vehicle, I stopped to wait for the light as a helmetless man, riding with his child on a seat, weaved wobbly between me, the taxi and the pedestrians trying to cross, uttering not even an ''on your right.'' He pulled silently out into traffic, stopping halfway across the intersection to let a tractor-trailer wail by before he finished crossing against the light, the toddler in back thinking heaven knows what. 
 Meanwhile, another biker was about to pass him, and pedestrians in the intersection now scattered like deer. And I was thinking, ''No wonder they hate us.''
 Because they do hate us, they being nonbikers and us being bikers. 
 Stimulus bills with federal money for transportation come and go, but we bikers appear to be staying. For once in our biking lives, New York is really listening to us, helping our numbers grow, with new bike racks, bike shelters, biking incentives (a proposal for an indoor parking requirement for new buildings, for instance) and, of course, bike lanes.
 To be clear, cars are more likely to kill nonbikers; we still live in a world ruled by the ruthless car. But as someone who has been knocked off his bike by an S.U.V. making an illegal right on red (pretty hard, but I just got bruises and a busted front wheel), who has been hit by a cab veering into a bike lane (not that hard) and who has been knocked down as a pedestrian in a crosswalk by a Ford Econovan (really hard, as in broken knee, lots of stitches in the head and weeks of crutches and physical therapy), I admit that my knees feel wobbly when I see a guy ride against the light in a busy intersection with a child in the seat behind him. 
 As someone who has been honked and screamed at by drivers when I am proceeding carefully along a wide, bike-friendly street, I acknowledge that my blood boils, just from a public relations standpoint, when I see a guy do that. Because again, they hate us.
 The nature of the hate has changed. Once, they hated us because we were a rarity, like a rat in the kitchen, a pest. Now, they hate us because we are ubiquitous. 
 In a 12-hour survey one day last summer, the city counted 12,583 bikers on the Staten Island Ferry, the East River bridges and the Hudson River bike path -- up 35 percent from the year before in what Janette Sadik-Khan, the city's transportation commissioner, called an ''unprecedented increase.'' Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group, estimates that 131,000 bikers in the city commute to work daily.
 There was a time when bikers couldn't imagine the city giving to us, even when it tried. In a previous earth-friendly period, Mayor John Lindsay chickened out on bike lanes after Fifth Avenue businesses complained. In 1980, before ''sustainable'' was everybody's middle name, Mayor Ed Koch put in bike lanes separated by concrete and asphalt barriers on Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, and then ripped them out after not seeing any bikers in them. 
 Today, the Transportation Department has gotten serious about biking, and in just three years, the agency has painted bike lanes (good), constructed bike lanes separated by parked cars (great) and bike lanes separated by medians or barriers (the best) and installed bike signals, bike signs and many bike symbols painted on the street. Some of these symbols are clear, although I'm not sure I understand others. What do the biker and double arrows mean when painted on a busy street without a bike lane? Good luck? 
 Though bikers are hated, pedestrian deaths and injuries on Ninth Avenue in Chelsea immediately declined in the area of the physically separated bike lane, as reported on streetsblog.org, news blog of the Livable Streets Initiative, which advocates creating sustainable cities. In December, Community Board 4 voted in favor of creating a bike lane on Eighth Avenue between 14th and 23rd Streets.
 There are still detractors; Fox News aired a report a few months ago blaming the new bike lane on Grand Street for not only clogging up car traffic in Lower Manhattan but -- potentially! -- putting pedestrians' lives in danger. Less reported was the story of the biker who was -- actually! -- killed by a truck driver in a hit-and-run in October. But despite such criticism, people are gradually losing the car-centric view of Manhattan and are sensing that the streets are for more than automobiles.
 We bikers, in other words, have been on the receiving end. Now, as much as we would perhaps prefer not to, we must stop to look at ourselves and realize that we have a little giving to do. I am talking about perceptions, about the things we should do outside the letter of the law, like the way we try not to kill the person in front of us in the revolving doors.
 The Brooklyn Bridge is an important front in the bike publicity war; it is a place where bikes are losing. The essential conflict can be grossly caricatured like this: Guys dressed as if they are in the Pyrenees stage of the Tour de France try to set speed records as Italian tourists linger in the middle of the bridge to get a photo of their cousin, Paolo, backed by the Empire State Building. 
 Bikers won't stop, fearing they will lose a few tenths of a second off their times; and tourists from former Soviet republics confuse the phrase ''Get out of the bike lane, you jerk'' with ''Enjoy your stay.''
 Confusion ensues, slowing down the furious bikers and dragging into the mix City Hall-area office workers who are just trying to get in a little lunch break walk-a-cise but are now risking loss of limb. 
 Next comes another species of biker, which I call the Really Cool Biker, because they are really cool -- usually younger than the Lance Armstrong types, wearing skinny jeans and a windbreaker imprinted with, say, the name of a bar or a bowling alley, and riding a sleek, fixed-gear frame bike that I myself am too uncool to even adequately describe. 
 Now, as the Tour de France vs. the tourist melee is exploding, the Really Cool Bikers attempt to skirt the scrum of tourists, using themoment of chaos as an obstacle course, causing tourists to break like pheasants after a bad shot. The Really Cool Bikers speed silently around terrified bystanders, leaving a trail of bike-induced horror. Even bike commuters complain about bikers on the Brooklyn Bridge. 
 Once, cars were the natural enemy of bikers, and vice versa. But as the Brooklyn Bridge biking shows, now that the city has made some progress in holding back the cars, bikers have begun to treat people the same way the cars they used to battle do -- in other words, like the enemy. 
 Likewise, for pedestrians seeking to complain, bikes are easier to attack than cars, a fact that plays on the strength of the bike. It is driven by a human being you can see and communi- cate with more readily than you can with a guy in a car whose windows are shut and whose stereo is blasting. 
 Despite the presence of bike lanes, we see many bikes on the sidewalk, and the bikers riding the wrong way down streets, alarming cabdrivers at the light. For biking to make it to the next level, for bikes to be completely accepted as the viable form of city transportation that they are, bikers must switch sides. They must act like people and stop acting like cars.
 This means doing things that we, the bikers of New York, would have laughed at just a few years ago. It means getting a little personal, though not that personal. Acting like people means that we have to do things that we frankly don't want to do and things that we want cars to do, like slow down.
 As far as bikers go, I've become a kind of laughingstock because I wait at traffic lights. Recently, as I waited in a bike lane at Atlantic Avenue for a light to change, a woman in her 70s, walking hunched with a cane, approached the crosswalk smiling -- until she spotted me. Then she began shouting as I waited behind the crosswalk, ''Well, are you going to stop?'' I assured her I was waiting. She grimaced. ''How do I know you're not going to go?'' she asked.
 A good point. But I stood my ground, smiled and tried to win the point by not doing anything. Just as she finished crossing, two Lance Armstrong types whipped through the crosswalk and pulled past the red light, waiting to slip through the crossing traffic. The woman who had crossed looked back at me and started shouting again. ''See?'' she said, proclaiming herself the winner. ''You're going to run me over!'' 
 Which brings me to four sure-to-be-scoffed-at suggestions for better bike P.R.: 
 NO. 1: How about we stop at major intersections? Especially where there are school crossing guards, or disabled people crossing, or a lot of people during the morning or evening rush. (I have the law with me on this one.) At minor intersections, on far-from-traffic intersections, let's at least stop and go.
 NO. 2: How about we ride with traffic as opposed to the wrong way on a one-way street? I know the idea of being told which way to go drives many bikers bonkers. That stuff is for cars, they say. I consider one-way streets anathema -- they make for faster car traffic and more difficult crossings. But whenever I see something bad happen to a biker, it's when the biker is riding the wrong way on a one-way street. 
 There will be caveats. Perhaps your wife is about to go into labor and you take her to the hospital on your bike; then, yes, sure, go the wrong way in the one-way bike lane. We can handle caveats. We are bikers.
 NO. 3: How about we stay off the sidewalks? Why are bikers so incensed when the police hand out tickets for this? I'm only guessing, but each sidewalk biker must believe that he or she, out of all New York bikers, is the exception, the one careful biker, which is a very car way of thinking. 
 NO. 4: How about we signal? Again, I hear the laughter, but the bike gods gave us hands to ring bells and to signal turns. Think of the possible complications: Many of the bikers behind you are wearing headphones, and the family in the minivan has a Disney DVD playing so loudly that it's rattling your 30-pound Kryptonite chain. Let them know what you are thinking so that you can go on breathing as well as thinking.
 Maybe I have been hit too hard by cars while biking, but I foresee a time when my street will be filled with bicycles, when streets will have car lanes and when bike lanes will be transformed into bike-only streets, which is essentially the same as a physically separated bike lane like the one on Ninth Avenue. This bike-centered city life even happened over the summer, when cars were kept off Broadway between the Brooklyn Bridge and Central Park and the city did not shut down, nor did bikers kill people.
 Bikes don't kill people; cars kill people. I know this, I feel this (big scar on head), and when I think of my bike heroes and bike role models, when I imagine the tone of the new bike culture, I think of civility. I think of Murray Kempton, the great baroque sentence maker who wrote for The New York Post and The New York Review of Books and biked on what I remember as a three-speed, pedaling to his word processor, wearing an early Walkman. 
 I think of Alayne Patrick, the owner of the Brooklyn boutique Layla, cruising through Cobble Hill wearing something Indian that was made even more fashionable by the fact that she is on an extremely cool Scandinavian bike. I think of my father, Brooklyn-born, Queens-raised and biking up on a beaten-up 10-speed when we were kids to tell us to head home. ''Why drive?'' he used to say. ''It costs money, and a bike's more fun.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An essay on March 8 about bicyclists' behavior in New York City misstated a route that was closed to cars, trucks and buses on three Saturdays last summer. Vehicles were kept off part of Park Avenue -- not Broadway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A cyclist, above, riding between lanes on Avenue of the Americas near 20th Street
a typical scene on the Brooklyn Bridge, left, pitting cyclists and pedestrians
 and a cyclist navigating amid pedestrians, below, on Broadway near 35th Street.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. CY8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTREME SPORTS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (73%); CAVING (53%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



340 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FRESH STARTS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: If Water Is Scarce, The Work Isn't

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN. 
Fresh Starts is a monthly column about emerging jobs and job trends.

 BODY:
THE Earth may be two-thirds water, but only about 1 percent of that water is actually usable for human consumption and agriculture. What's more, as the planet warms and the population shifts, even that 1 percent is at risk. 
 That is why demand for hydrologists has been predicted to grow 24 percent from 2006 to 2016, much faster than the average for all occupations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 Hydrologists study the distribution, circulation and physical properties of water, with hydrogeologists focusing specifically on groundwater. (According to the United States Geological Survey, there is 100 times more water beneath the ground than there is in all the world's lakes and rivers.)
 ''Hydrologist is a fairly broad term, but generally, any research or problems having to do with water, there's a hydrologist working on it,'' said Matthew C. Larsen, a hydrologist and associate director for water at the Geological Survey.
 Most hydrologists did not earn degrees in hydrology; in fact, only a handful of undergraduate and graduate hydrology programs exist across the country. It is far more common for hydrologists to come from a hard-science or engineering background. Though it is possible to enter the field with a bachelor's degree -- most often as a lab technician -- moving up in the career requires an advanced degree, Mr. Larsen said. 
 After creation of the Environmental Protection Agency in 1970 and passage of the Clean Air Act in 1977 and Superfund legislation in 1980, hydrologists' work was largely focused on water quality. Today, however, ''an increasing percentage of hydrologists are interested in water quantity and supply, which is an emerging issue and where global climate change plays a big role,'' said Dork Sahagian, professor of earth and environmental science at Lehigh University and director of its Environmental Initiative in Bethlehem, Pa. 
 ''But concern with water quality -- which involves local, site-based issues -- still drives the job market,'' he said. ''Most hydrologists in this part of the world are still hired to cope with the availability of clean water for drinking and municipal supplies.''
 Hydrologists use samples of water and soil, which they have traditionally collected themselves by wading out into a river or lake. Computers, however, have changed the nature of that field work. The Geological Survey now uses computerized samplers set up in rivers and streams throughout the nation.
 But some field work is still required, especially early in a hydrologist's career, and is often considered a perk -- the ability to work outdoors and in beautiful places. That work could involve inspecting a dam, drilling a well or measuring a river's flow.
 ''I used to say the worst day in the field still beat the best day in the office,'' said Mark Wigmosta, a hydrologist with the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, an Energy Department research center in Richland, Wash. ''I don't spend as much time out in the field, and I miss it. My work now is primarily in front of a computer.'' 
 In fact, computers have revolutionized hydrology in ways beyond sampling. Data collected in the field is now plugged into complex mathematic models that allow hydrologists to make predictions -- for example, about the effect of climate change on sea levels. The models also help them develop recommendations for solving problems, like how much water can be diverted from a river to combat a drought.
 ''People interested in hydrology often don't understand you need to be very strong in math,'' said Michael Boufadel, an engineer and hydrologist and the chairman of the civil and environmental engineering department at Temple University in Philadelphia.
 They also need to communicate well, because their research is often written in reports and presented to others -- to policy makers, if they work in the public sector, or to clients in the private sector.
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, about 28 percent of hydrologists are employed by the federal government, at the Geological Survey and the Defense Department. An additional 21 percent work for state agencies and state departments of conservation. Others work in architecture, engineering and for management, scientific and technical consulting firms. 
 SCOTT D. WARNER, principal hydrogeologist and a vice president at the environmental consulting firm Amec Geomatrix in Oakland, Calif., said demand for his firm's services had been strong since the 1980s. ''Our firm is growing, even in this economic downturn,'' he said. Much of Amec's work is with municipal water districts that need to find ways to manage their water and predict their needs.
 Salaries for hydrologists range from an entry level of about $35,000 to well into six figures for the most senior scientists at consulting firms. Jobs in consulting firms generally pay higher salaries than those with the government. 
 But few choose the profession to become rich, Mr. Warner said. Most often, the reason is that the work is fulfilling. ''We're not oil tycoons, but we feel good about the type of work we do and the problems we solve,'' he said. ''You really learn something new every day.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott D. Warner, principal hydrogeologist for Amec Geomatrix, says demand for his company's services has been strong since the 1980s.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); RIVERS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); SUPERFUND (75%); LAKES (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); STATISTICS (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); CLIMATE CHANGE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (64%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



341 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; DINING BRIDGEPORT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Bright Spot, Blossoming Location

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE LYNESS

 BODY:
ON a recent Saturday night, Epernay Bistro was encouragingly busy. It's a very attractive place, with an appealing, workmanlike aesthetic that is appropriate for an urban bistro. Tables are bare of cloths, and the room's industrial roots -- an exposed brick wall and ceiling ductwork -- are undisguised. 
 The menu is small enough to fit on a single page: a collection of appetizers and a choice of six entrees, including two sandwiches. (This formal menu is augmented by daily specials; a line at the bottom tells us that, where possible, Epernay buys from local, organic growers and producers.) 
 With whimsical lighting, a comfortably cushioned lounge area and a great color scheme, Epernay manages to be elegant, casual and cozy, all at the same time. 
 Given the artful, urban design and the lively atmosphere, I'd have guessed I was someplace in New Haven, or maybe South Norwalk.
 But Epernay Bistro is on Fairfield Avenue in Bridgeport. It is one of several restaurants that have recently opened in the city's downtown area. Peter Wroe, the chef-owner, who named the restaurant after a major Champagne-producing region of France, has anchored the menu with French bistro favorites like charcuterie, French onion soup, steak frites and a winey, Provencal lamb stew. He has not, however, been constrained by this; there is also a pork chop Milanese, a pressed pork sandwich and lamb meatballs served over fettuccine.
 There is a core of dishes that work very nicely here. Of the appetizers, the charcuterie plate is top notch, combining good quality Serrano ham, bresaola (air-dried beef), a pleasant, coarse-textured pate (I would wish for a little more ''oomph'' in the seasoning) and a lovely French sausage, all appropriately thin-sliced.
 A homey bowl of mushroom-scented chicken soup, a special that night, was filled with flavor as well as generous chunks of tender chicken. The smoked salmon salad offered a liberal amount of the fish, served on top of creme fraiche dressed greens, garnished with diced red onion and capers. 
 Of the entrees, my favorite was the crisp, breaded pork chop Milanese, served on the bone, with an arugula salad flecked with Parmesan. (It's delicious and it's smart: made with pork instead of veal, the dish is a mere $17.) The flat iron steak, served sliced, showcased that steak's terrific flavor (although the homemade French fries should have been crisper). A fillet of escolar, served in a tomato-beurre blanc sauce, was beautifully cooked.
 Other dishes need work, which is not surprising, given that the restaurant opened at the beginning of November. At my first meal there, the baby octopus on the grilled octopus salad was delicately tender, but desperate for seasoning, and the lamb stew and accompanying pasta was terribly undersalted, although the meat itself was nicely cooked.
 At a later lunch, the food was correctly seasoned, but there were other omissions. Both the onion soup and the lamb meatballs (served over fettucine with a red-wine sauce) were lukewarm. And the meatballs, as well as the crouton covering the soup, were slightly burned.
 The topping on an orange creme brulee was too dark as well. But there are other desserts at Epernay that I can recommend. The chocolate pot de creme is a deliciously bitter chocolate custard, and leaner than usual, so that the accompanying whipped cream adds an agreeable opulence. Triangles of lemon bars, and coffee ice cream (served rather adorably in a takeout container) are equally good choices. A wedge of linzer torte, however, was a bit mushy, and I wished for more tartness in the fruit, the better to set off the sweet of the crust. 
 I hope that Bridgeport, benighted for so long by economic troubles, can support the new restaurants that are appearing here. After just four months, Epernay Bistro has made a good start. And with prices that are very competitive with restaurants farther south in Fairfield County, it is helping Bridgeport build a brighter image as a pretty good deal. 
 Epernay Bistro
 272 Fairfield Avenue
 Bridgeport
 (203) 334-3000
 epernaybistro.com
 GOOD
 SPACE Bar and cushioned lounge area in the front; tables in the back. Well-executed, contemporary, industrial look (exposed brick and vents) softened by French posters and colorful, dangling light fixtures. Indoor parking garage next door. Wheelchair access.
 THE CROWD Casual. 
 THE BAR Full bar, and very reasonable international wine list. Wines by the glass: $5 to $10.
 THE BILL Entrees, $10 to $25. 
 WHAT WE LIKE Grilled octopus salad, smoked salmon salad, charcuterie assortment; pork chop Milanese, steak frites, escolar with tomato beurre blanc; lemon bars, chocolate pot de creme, coffee ice cream. 
 IF YOU GO Monday to Thursday, 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m.; Friday, 11:30 a.m. to midnight; Saturday, 4:30 p.m. to midnight. Reservations recommended.
 Reviewed March 8, 2009 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OFF THE GRILL: At Epernay Bistro, steak frites, upper left, is a grilled spice-rubbed flat iron, sliced, with homemade French fries and black truffle butter.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); CITIES (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); PORK (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (76%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



342 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WHITNEY, DONALD HOWARD OF STATESBORO

 BODY:
WHITNEY--Donald Howard of Statesboro, Georgia. Donald Howard Whitney, 99, died on March 3 in Statesboro, Georgia. He was born on April 25, 1909 in New York City. 
He attended Horace Mann School at 120th St. and Broadway and the Horace Mann Boys School in Riverdale, NY, graduating in 1926. He graduated from Princeton University, cum laude in Economics, in 1930. He attended the training school and worked at Chase Securities/Chase Harris Forbes. In 1932, the Glass-Steagall Act prohibited banks from having securities affiliates thus ending Chase Harris Forbes. For the next ten years he worked for Phelps Fenn & Co., a leading house in the municipal bond business. After volunteering and being rated 4F, he was Chief Price Economist for the State of New Jersey. He later joined the Todd Shipyards in Brooklyn NY where he became Director of Training. He married Phoebe Jane Strickland of Stilson, Georgia in 1942. In June 1945, he joined Commercial Union Insurance Group in New York where he worked for 29 years and became Chief Financial Officer. After retiring from Commercial Union in 1974, he first became Director and Financial Officer of the United Mutual Savings Bank and then joined Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. where he served in various capacities until 1986, when he retired. In addition, for 57 years, through 2002, he managed investments for the F.A. Ayer Estate and 26 years for the Wilmar Corporation through 2000. He was a member and officer of the New York Society of Security Analysts, First Congregational Church of Chappaqua NY, and the New Castle Historical Society. He was a member of the Bond Club of New York, Mount Kisco Country Club and the Forest Heights Country Club of Statesboro, GA. He worked with little league basketball and baseball and the boy scouts. He and his wife lived in Chappaqua, NY from 1950 to 1998, when they moved to Statesboro GA, where Phoebe died in 2001. He is survived by Peter Donald Whitney of McLean and Mary Neville Hoch of Amherst MA; by grandchildren Tyson and Vanna Whitney and Katrina Hoch, Sarah Morris and Natalie Hoch Krauser; and by great-grandchildren Eva and Mireia Whitney and Ella Morris. Visitation and Funeral Services were on Saturday, March 7 at the Joiner-Anderson Funeral Home, in Statesboro, GA. Graveside services and burial will be held on Tuesday at 11:00am in the Fair Ridge Cemetery in Chappaqua, New York. Friends may sign the online register book at www.joineranderson.com. Joiner-Anderson Funeral Home of Statesboro is in charge of the services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CHILDREN (89%); YOUTH SPORTS (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BASEBALL (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%); BASKETBALL (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%)

COMPANY: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (68%); AVIVA PLC (56%); VIGOR INDUSTRIAL LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: AV (NYSE) (56%); AV (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



343 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Slide Show: Taking The Family To Marrakesh, Morocco
 Marrakesh, Morocco, has an ancient walled city, a souk, left, palaces and a nearby desert and mountain range for day trips. Jennifer Conlin of The Times went to Marrakesh with a goal: ''discovering whether the kids were finally old enough to enjoy a non-childcentric vacation (that is, no Disneyland, aqua hotels, beach resorts or kids' clubs allowed).'' 
nytimes.com/travel
 VIDEO: MISERY IN ZIMBABWE
 A video Reporter's Notebook about turmoil on Zimbabwe's border. As some women flee the political and economic chaos in Zimbabwe, waiting for them on the border are gumagumas, men who offer themselves as guides but are actually a gang of thieves and rapists.
 nytimes.com/world
 AUDIO: BUSINESS PODCAST
 In the weekend edition: unemployment and economic restructuring, A.I.G.'s financial tangle and investing news.
 nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: SLUSH FUN
 Bill Cunningham of The Times on how New Yorkers reacted to the snowstorm last week.
 nytimes.com/fashion
 SLIDESHOW: INSIDE WEBSTER HALL
 Webster Hall, in Manhattan, has been given several makeovers, including a yearlong $3 million renovation. The overhauled four-level space has lured back live music.
 nytimes.com/style
 SLIDESHOW: 36 HOURS IN MADRID
 Madrid is once again a city for walkers. A renovation project had turned the city into a construction site. But the downturn has halted much of the face-lift.
 nytimes.com/travel
 SLIDESHOW: COMFORT ZONES
 A look at psychoanalysts in their offices, photographed by Dr. Mark Gerald, a psychoanalyst and amateur photographer.
 nytimes.com/thecity
 Slide Show: Scenes From the Past
 Photographs of Joan Allen, who returned to Broadway last weekend after staying away (to act in movies) for two decades. Ms. Allen -- a Tony Award winner and three-time Oscar nominee -- returned to star in ''Impressionism,'' a new play that opens on March 24. The slide show features pictures from Ms. Allen's performances on the stage and screen. 
 nytimes.com/theater 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED ALCOCK
 DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (86%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); RESORTS (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); PHOTOGRAPHY (64%); PODCASTING (54%); THEATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MOROCCO (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009



344 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: These Nurses Are Taking Their Show on the Road

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AT a time many people feel lucky to have a steady job, thousands of nurses feel lucky not to have one. Known as traveling nurses, they have made a career and life out of working in staccato bursts -- taking assignments of a few months each in different facilities across the country.
 Traveling nurses often work full time, with little or no gap between jobs, but part-time work is also an option. Their assignments are usually arranged through an agency that acts as a combination employer and booking agent. 
A typical agency puts nurses on its own payroll while they are on the job. Agencies pay nurses' salaries and often benefits including a portion of health insurance, and they help arrange housing on the road. 
 The agencies maintain relationships with hospitals and clinics, which count on them to ensure that the nurses they send have the right credentials and have had drug tests and requisite health checks and inoculations.
 Demand from hospitals and clinics is strong enough for many full-time traveling nurses to make as much money as, or more than, they would in a conventional job, while being able to choose where they work. That is especially true for highly specialized segments of the profession, like those for intensive care, dialysis, emergency room and oncology.
 ''It's an attractive kind of career for a nurse who can do that moving around,'' said Marcia Faller, chief clinical officer at AMN Healthcare, a San Diego-based company that owns NursesRx, which employs 7,000 traveling nurses and other traveling health workers. When jobs end, she said, ''they can extend their stay or move on to somewhere else.''
 There is a flip side to it. ''Some people are not cut out for this,'' Ms. Faller said. ''Jumping into a new job every three months can be kind of stressful.''
 But she noted that the 20,000 or so traveling nurses working today enjoy some fringe benefits that other nurses do not. They often can avoid the bureaucracy and office politics that are part of many jobs. And serial assignments offer a chance for career development.
 ''They get an opportunity to work in hospitals that they wouldn't otherwise get a chance to work in, like Johns Hopkins or Stanford, and build a resume,'' Ms. Faller said. ''They can get that experience and bring it back home.''
 Louis MacBeth, an intensive-care nurse who has been traveling since 2001, said he appreciated the chance ''to meet new people and experience different things in health care.'' The star attraction is the opportunity to do so in various locations.
 ''The appeal is basically that you get the opportunity to see the country,'' he said. After spending much of his life in western Pennsylvania, he said, ''I decided I wanted to see what was out there, what the differences are in culture, scenery, history.''
 The typical pattern in other lines of work is to start in a part-time or temporary position, then catch on full time. Many traveling nurses, including Mr. MacBeth, 38, acquire their peripatetic ways only after toiling for several years in one job. Once on the road, he did much of his exploring in places like California, Hawaii, Alaska and Arizona. 
 Sherry Stubbs, a dialysis nurse from Nebraska, has been to some of the same destinations, although she gave Alaska a miss when a chance to spend six months there arose. ''I get choices,'' she said. ''It's not like they say, 'Sherry, you're going here next.' '' She has been working lately at a clinic in Northern California and has had two excursions to Hawaii and one to New York City.
 Travelers tend to be younger than other nurses, Ms. Faller said. But some, like Ms. Stubbs, who has a son in college, begin traveling later in their careers, after their children are old enough to fend for themselves.
 Traveling nurses may fill in for regular staffers who are on vacation or maternity leave, or help meet seasonal demand for health care in popular holiday destinations.
 They were first hired about 30 years ago when ''snowbirds would go south and need more health care,'' Ms. Faller said. ''Hospitals didn't want to employ nurses all year round.'' Since then, she said, the practice ''has grown much broader.''
 How much it will continue to grow during the recession is unclear. ''It's hard to say,'' said Geoffrey Pridham, manager of nursing administrative services at Stanford Hospital and Clinics. ''I've seen hospitals go from 'Let's get rid of all the travelers' to 'Let's hire lots of travelers.' ''
 Mr. Pridham seems to lean toward Option B. Traveling nurses provide ''the flexibility of having somebody for 13 or 26 weeks, then not having to worry about being overhired,'' he said.
 The hospital tries to be flexible with travelers, too, often giving them three-day workweeks with 12-hour shifts to allow them more time to enjoy their new surroundings.
 As for more tangible benefits, it is hard to gauge how lucrative traveling nursing is, compared with the stationary kind. The straight hourly rate will almost certainly be higher, but part of the excess will be eaten by the costs of housing, airfare, rental cars and other necessities and comforts while on the road.
 MR. MACBETH is happy with the money but expects to give up traveling one day for other reasons.
 ''I eventually want to settle down like most people, have a family and grow some roots, so I can see doing this for another couple of years,'' he said. ''The best part about it is I get to decide where I want to settle down'' because he has experience and contacts around the country.
 Ms. Stubbs, who already has a family and roots, expects to stay on the move and has no plans to start looking for a steady job.
 ''I love the traveling aspect,'' she said. ''I would not necessarily have a hard time staying with one unit or company, but being a traveling nurse gives me variety, and they pay me to be on vacation.'' 

GRAPHIC: Louis MacBeth has been a traveling nurse since 2001. ''I decided I wanted to see what was out there, what the differences are in culture, scenery, history.'' JASON COHN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); ONCOLOGY (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); DIALYSIS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2009



345 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Nationalize? Hey, Not So Fast

BYLINE: By ALAN S. BLINDER. 
Alan S. Blinder is a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. He has advised many Democratic politicians.

 BODY:
THE financial crisis grows weirder by the day. When philosophical conservatives like Alan Greenspan start talking about nationalizing banks, you know you've passed into some kind of parallel universe. Why are so many people entertaining an idea that sounds vaguely Marxian?
 The answer, I think, is simple. We have some pretty sick banks in America right now, some of which may not be viable in the long run. But putting a giant bank through bankruptcy is unthinkable. (Remember Lehman Brothers?) And continuing the water torture that is keeping zombie banks alive is both expensive and dangerous. So why not just bite the proverbial bullet and nationalize them? 
 I believe in biting the bullet, but it matters which bullet you bite. Like Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary, I am not convinced that nationalization is the only, or even the best, way out.
 Because ''nationalization'' can mean many things, let's first clarify what the current debate is about. Don't think Hugo Chavez or even Clement Attlee. Imagine instead that the government acquires a majority interest in -- or perhaps 100 percent of -- a bank, wipes out the existing shareholders and installs new managers. Then, sometime later, a healthy bank is sold back into private hands, and we all live happily ever after. At least that's the idea.
 Sounds good, you say? And didn't Sweden pull this off with great success in the early 1990s? Yes, it did, for which the Swedes deserve praise. But this is not Sweden. Let's think about some of the downsides to nationalizing banks in America.
 WHERE TO DRAW THE LINE? First and foremost, the Swedish government had to deal with only a handful of banks; we have more than 8,300. Numbers matter, because deciding where to draw the nationalization line isn't easy. Presumably, no one wants to nationalize all the banks, thousands of which are healthy. But where do you stop, once you start? 
 Suppose we nationalized four banks. Bank Five would then find itself at a severe disadvantage in competing for funds with the government-backed quartet. Forced to pay higher interest rates to attract depositors and other creditors, its profitability would suffer. Soon, Bank Five might start looking like a candidate for nationalization, too -- followed by Banks Six, Seven and so on.
 THE DOMINO EFFECT As stock traders began to contemplate the nationalization of Banks Five, Six and Seven, their share prices would tank, and short-sellers might consign the companies to an early grave.
 THE MANAGEMENT CHALLENGE The Swedes had a relatively simple task. They never had to deal with institutions of the size and complexity of our banking behemoths.
 Mr. Geithner has emphasized that governments are ill-suited to manage businesses. I'd take the point a step further: Overseeing the management of dozens, or hundreds, or maybe even thousands of nationalized banks is a daunting task.
 POLITICAL OBSTACLES The process of nationalization and reprivatization went amazingly well in Sweden partly because it was remarkably free of political interference. Would that happen here? You decide. My bet is no.
 THE CONFIDENCE QUESTION Finally, because nationalization runs counter to deeply ingrained American traditions and attitudes, there is a danger that it might undermine rather than bolster confidence. As I said, this is not Sweden. The Treasury, of course, would never use ''nationalization'' in public; it would invent some nice euphemism. But the commentariat would not be so constrained.
 All of that said, there are arguments in favor of nationalization. Or are there?
 One is that financial firms are careening off track, thereby costing taxpayers more and more bailout money. (Think A.I.G.) That's a big concern -- and a major reason to seek quick closure.
 But remember, the government already owns shares in many banks, and supervisors have immense powers to influence banks without owning them. According to a banking adage, ''When your regulator asks you to jump, your only question is 'How high?''' Because the Fed can pretty much dictate to the banks right now, what additional powers would nationalization bring?
 Another argument is that banks' dodgy assets are hard to value, making it impossible to know how much capital they need -- and probably very expensive to provide it. True again. But nationalization doesn't make these problems disappear.
 If the government takes over a bank, the taxpayers tacitly acquire its assets, thereby inheriting all the uncertainties over valuation. And if a bank has negative net worth when it is nationalized, who do you think fills the hole?
 SO, on closer inspection, the best-sounding arguments for nationalization are really arguments for bullet-biting. Worse yet, even talk about nationalization can be harmful if it puts bank stocks under further selling pressure. After all, who wants to own a stock whose value is heading toward zero? Which is why Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Geithner have taken pains to beat down rumors that nationalization is coming.
 Unfortunately, their denials can never be categorical. If worst really does come to worst, the other options may evaporate, leaving the government no choice but to nationalize some banks. (Think Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.) But, please, let's not rush there. Let's first at least explore what is called the ''good bank, bad bank'' approach.
 What's that? While there are many variants, the basic idea is to break each sick institution into two. The ''good bank'' gets the good assets, presumably all the deposits and a share of the bank's remaining capital. As a healthy institution, it can presumably raise fresh capital and go on its merry way as a private company. 
 The ''bad bank'' inherits the bad assets and the rest of the capital -- which, after appropriate markdowns of the assets, will not be enough. So, again, someone must fill the hole. And, realistically, given the mess we're in, much of that new capital would likely come from the taxpayers.
 Here's a prediction: We will get to the good-bank, bad-bank solution sooner or later. Wouldn't it be nice if it was sooner? 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (54%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



346 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: A Waiting Game For Refinancing

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
IN the weeks before the Obama administration announced its housing plan, some members of Congress were lobbying the government to subsidize 4 percent mortgages for homeowners who were current on their loans.
 But that proposal never made it into the plan. Rather, the administration has decided so far to focus on helping distressed borrowers more easily refinance or modify loans, with terms typically reflecting today's market rates, now in the low 5-percent range for qualified borrowers. (Only loans owned or backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would qualify.)
 While mortgage professionals have not lost hope that low-rate, government-subsidized mortgages could eventually happen, they are advising clients on the fence about refinancing not to wait. Interest rates remain near historic lows, but at the same time, lending standards have tightened and property values have fallen. If those trends continue, some borrowers may no longer be eligible to refinance. 
 The waiting game is particularly risky for homeowners in areas where property values are dropping sharply, and for those with barely above 20 percent equity in a home -- the typical minimum for qualifying for any home loan. 
 If the borrower has already secured a mortgage commitment during that time, most lenders are likely to proceed with the transaction even if a property's value has dropped, according to Regina Garlin, an owner of RCG Mortgage in Montclair, N.J. ''If a rate is locked and the loan was approved,'' she said, ''most lenders will usually honor the original agreement.''
 To prevent any problems, though, Ms. Garlin suggests that borrowers have at least an informal home appraisal beforehand. ''I recommend having a real estate agent provide comparable sales within the most recent three to six months,'' she said. ''While it's not as exact as a certified property appraisal, it can serve to prepare for the unexpected before incurring costs or wasting time.''
 These days, home loans are taking longer to review. Lenders are scrutinizing applications more closely, and because of industrywide layoffs, many banks now have fewer loan processors to help vet applicants.
 Ms. Garlin said it used to take four to six weeks to complete a purchase mortgage, and three to four weeks for a refinance mortgage. Now, she said, a refinance can take as long as six weeks, and a purchase mortgage can take as long as two months.
 Loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration are an exception, mortgage experts say, because lenders can more easily sell these loans to investors. 
 Nicholas Bratsafolis, the senior managing director of structured refinance at Lend America, a mortgage bank based in Melville, N.Y., says his company can complete an F.H.A. loan in 12 days or less from the time that initial contact is made with a borrower. The loan process is also faster, he said, because his company no longer works with brokers. 
 ''Many banks who bought loans from brokers were badly burned,'' Mr. Bratsafolis said, referring to banks that did business with brokers during the housing boom. ''So while the broker put together the loan package, the fear for a bank is that there's something in the package that may not be correct or verifiable.''
 Reflecting a move toward more conservative business practices, many major lenders have either chosen not to work with brokers, or are working with far fewer brokers than in years past.
 But Alan Rosenbaum, the chief executive of the GuardHill Financial Corporation in Manhattan, said consumers who go directly to a major lender do not always have the experience described by Mr. Bratsafolis of Lend America. 
 Mr. Rosenbaum said borrowers who go to a bank's retail branch can sometimes wait 90 days for a loan to close, because the lenders are so backed up. ''We know which banks are slow or fast,'' he said, ''so we can place loans with the banks with the best rates and the best service levels.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index.(Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); TRENDS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



347 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Premier Quits To Help Unify Palestinians

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Khaled Abu Aker contributed reporting from Ramallah, and Taghreed El-Khodary from Sharm el Sheik, Egypt.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
Salam Fayyad, the prime minister of the Western-backed Palestinian Authority, on Saturday submitted his government's resignation, saying he hoped that it would help efforts to form a Palestinian unity government with the Islamic group Hamas. 
 A statement from his office said the resignation would take effect no later than the end of March.
 Over the years, Mr. Fayyad, a political independent and an American-educated economist, who also serves as finance minister, has gained the trust of Washington and the international community. The announcement was bound to raise anxiety, coming just days after international donors pledged about $4.4 billion in economic assistance for the West Bank-based Palestinian Authority and for rebuilding Gaza. 
 The United States pledged $900 million to the Palestinian Authority, a third of it intended for rebuilding in Gaza after Israel's recent 22-day military offensive there. 
 Still, it was not clear whether the resignation would, in the end, be accepted by the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, who leads Fatah, the mainstream party that is Hamas's rival. 
 The Palestinian groups are expected to begin a dialogue in Cairo this week on the details of a unity government. Mr. Abbas told reporters in the West Bank city of Ramallah on Saturday that he had asked Mr. Fayyad to ''continue with his work until we see the results'' of the talks. An Abbas aide, Nabil Abu Rudeineh, suggested that if the talks failed, Mr. Abbas could ask Mr. Fayyad to stay on, The Associated Press reported.
 The resignation announcement was widely seen as a conciliatory gesture to Hamas.
 But a senior adviser to Mr. Fayyad said it was also intended as ''a shock to the system'' and a message to Israel and the United States. The adviser, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the resignation with reporters, said that Mr. Fayyad felt that he was being ''taken for granted'' by Israel and the United States, especially because Israel had continued construction in the West Bank, and the United States had not done enough to stop this. 
 Mr. Fayyad, 56, is unpopular with Hamas and has made enemies within Fatah, some of whose members felt sidelined by his government in Ramallah.
 He served as the finance minister in a previous unity government established in March 2007. That government was led by Hamas, which won parliamentary elections in 2006, and included some members of Fatah, but it never gained the international recognition it craved. 
 In June 2007, after a brief but bloody factional war, Hamas seized control of Gaza, routing the pro-Fatah forces loyal to Mr. Abbas. 
 Mr. Abbas then fired the government and appointed Mr. Fayyad to lead a caretaker government made up mainly of technocrats. Hamas rejected the move and set up its own administration to rule Gaza. Mr. Fayyad's government, therefore, governed only in the West Bank. The separation of the two territories has further complicated efforts to achieve a Palestinian state.
 The Palestinians' need for national reconciliation increased after Israel's offensive in Gaza, with the international community refusing to channel any reconstruction funds through Hamas. The United States, the European Union and Israel classify Hamas as a terrorist organization and refuse to deal with it unless it renounces all violence, recognizes Israel's right to exist and accepts previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements.
 Egypt brokered preliminary talks between the Palestinian groups in late February. Hamas and Fatah leaders announced the establishment of committees to find formulas for a new Palestinian unity government and new elections, among other things. The committees are scheduled to convene this week and finish their work by the end of March.
 ''We believe that the positive atmosphere embodied by the first round of the dialogue is a precious opportunity that should be utilized to terminate the current state of fragmentation,'' Mr. Fayyad's letter to Mr. Abbas said. 
 Fawzi Barhoum, a spokesman for Hamas, said his group was ''not sorry to see the resignation of Fayyad and his government,'' according to Agence France-Presse. ''This is the end we expected because this government is illegitimate and illegal and built on failed and mistaken policies connected to American agendas.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad, in Ramallah, in the West Bank, on Saturday after he submitted his resignation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NASSER SHIYOUKHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AL FATAH (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); RELIGION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (56%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); EGYPT (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009



348 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Officials Seek Way to Fill a Gas Tax Gap

BYLINE: By STEVE FRIESS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
With gas tax revenue declining and fuel efficiency the holy grail of car manufacturers, officials across the country are testing systems that could move Americans from paying a per-gallon tax at the pump to some form of fee based on road usage. 
 The challenges with such a shift are immense. Economists are not sure the idea will be practical, and privacy advocates oppose the notion of governments monitoring motorists' driving habits. But millions of dollars are being spent on experiments with ways to collect such fees, and the idea seems to be gaining support in some quarters. 
 ''We're anticipating that we may get to the day when cars on the road don't ever even go to a fueling station,'' said Representative Peter A. DeFazio, an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, which held hearings on the matter last summer. ''If we're going to continue to have a highway network and fix the 150,000 bridges we have that are in disrepair, we're going to need new sources of revenue.'' 
 Gas tax revenue has been flat or declining across the nation, partly because people are driving less and partly because their cars require less fuel. The Department of Transportation took in about $71 million less in gas taxes in the 2008 fiscal year than in 2007, and Americans drove 12.9 billion fewer miles in November 2008 than November 2007, the most recent figures available. 
 Those declines have depleted the Federal Highway Trust Fund, authorized by Congress in 2005 to pay for road construction and maintenance through the end of this year. The federal tax rate of 18.4 cents per gallon of gas has not changed since 1993; 24 states and the District of Columbia have not changed their per-gallon tax rates since 1998.
 The matter bubbled up at the White House recently after President Obama's transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, said the administration was considering some form of a ''vehicles miles traveled'' tax to replace the federal fuel tax. Mr. Obama's press secretary, Robert Gibbs, corrected Mr. LaHood, telling reporters at his daily briefing the next day that supporting such a tax ''is not and will not be the policy of the Obama administration.''
 Still, studies of variations of a mileage tax are being conducted. In the largest experiment of its type, the $16.5 million federal Road User Study, more than 1,200 volunteers in six cities are driving cars equipped with tracking devices to record where motorists have been. The drivers pay the traditional gas tax when they fill up, but they also receive simulated bills each month based on mileage, showing how such a system may work. 
 ''We're looking at how you would bill people, at invasion of privacy issues, and, human nature being what it is, people will always be looking at ways to beat the system,'' said Jon Kuhl, principal investigator for the Road User Study, which is using volunteers in Austin, Tex.; Baltimore; Boise, Idaho; Raleigh and Durham, N.C.; San Diego; and the Quad Cities region of Iowa. 
 In a $2.7 million field test that ended in 2007, Oregon officials equipped the cars of 299 volunteers with transponders that relayed mileage data to special gas pumps. The pump charged the drivers 1.2 cents per mile in lieu of the 24-cent per gallon state gas tax. Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski, a Democrat, has asked the Legislature to approve $10 million to refine the technology and conduct more field tests. 
 Others are also tinkering with the idea. The North Carolina Legislature is considering adding a fee of one-quarter of a cent per mile to the state's current tax of 30.2 cents per gallon. The mileage fee would be paid with the annual vehicle registration fee. 
 In Massachusetts, Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, is considering a similar fee that would replace the gas tax. The Nevada Transportation Department is spending $200,000 on a study before deciding whether to ask the Legislature to authorize a trial in 2011 in which some motorists would be charged a mileage tax instead of the gas tax.
 Nevada plans to study the feasibility of charging motorists more for driving on the interstate during rush hour than on a surface street at midnight as a way to encourage alternative routes and carpooling. Mr. Kuhl of the Road User Study and other supporters of a mileage tax contend that motorists in many regions, including the New York metropolitan area, may buy their gas in one state but do much of their driving in another. 
 ''We're seeing more fuel-efficient cars or even cars that run on electricity,'' said Susan Martinovich, director of the Nevada Department of Transportation. ''Those people are not paying as much, and yet they're still on the road and still causing congestion and impacting pavement. How do I get at those people?''
 Privacy advocates and economists, though, wonder about the complexity -- and the public's reaction to tracking where and when people drive. 
 ''You'd have to have a record where the car is at all times, and that certainly would frighten America,'' said Mike Moffatt, an economist at the Ivy School of Business at the University of Western Ontario. ''And it also seems like a much more expensive way to collect taxes.''
 Despite the problems, some move to replace or supplement the gas tax seems inevitable. Mr. Kuhl envisions retrofitting vehicles with a transponder to measure miles traveled, but Jim Whitty, the Oregon transportation official who oversaw the 2007 pilot program, said it was more practical to require automakers to install them in new cars and start the switch with those owners.
 Mr. Kuhl said: ''Moving to a system like this is going to be an enormously complicated process. It's going to require huge amounts of planning.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); RAY LAHOOD (53%); PETER A DEFAZIO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



349 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: A Start on Health Care Reform

 BODY:
President Obama has shown both courage and sound judgment pressing for quick action on comprehensive health care reform, even in the midst of the country's deep economic crisis. He has rightly stressed the urgency of reining in skyrocketing health care costs that are straining the budgets of families, businesses, and federal and state governments. 
 But his proposals, for all of their ambition, do not fully answer two central questions: how to cover tens of millions of uninsured Americans, and how to reform the health care system to reduce costs and improve the quality of care. 
 Mr. Obama has decided to let Congress thrash out the details of those issues, with the White House providing guidance along the way. Democratic leaders in Congress, many of whom are far more versed in the issues than the president is, will have to step up and fashion an effective bill. If they falter, Mr. Obama will need to step in with a clear vision and vigorous leadership.
 To his credit, the president has tackled the first tough issue of how to pay for expanded coverage and systemic reforms. His budget has proposed huge expenditures -- $634 billion over 10 years -- as a down payment, and it clearly specifies where to find the money. 
 Half would come from raising taxes on the rich, another quarter from eliminating unjustified subsidies for private plans that participate in Medicare, and other big chunks from reducing payments to drug companies, hospitals and the home health care industry. 
 Yet even the administration admits that $634 billion will not be enough to reach universal coverage: some experts think it will take at least twice that amount. 
 The administration has also given no clue as to how it will significantly reduce the number of uninsured Americans -- now 46 million and growing. The expanded children's health insurance program, which Mr. Obama signed into law early last month, will cover more than four million uninsured children, and his stimulus bill will help millions more Americans retain or gain coverage. But this, too, is only a down payment on the problem. 
 The president's main focus is on starting to reduce the soaring cost of health care. That, he argues, is a prerequisite to making universal coverage affordable and politically palatable. But in the meantime, many millions of uninsured Americans continue to go without adequate care. Congress will need to look hard at whether bigger strides can be made toward universal coverage at the same time that costs are addressed. 
 The president's plans make a start toward reforming the health care delivery system, but it is only a start. His stimulus program is pouring money into electronic medical records, preventive care and comparative effectiveness studies of medical treatments -- all of which should help improve care and possibly lower costs in the long run. His budget plan calls for Medicare to change its reimbursement rates for hospitals to promote higher quality, greater efficiency and substantial savings. 
 All told, the changes are projected to cut the growth rate in Medicare spending -- from 7.3 percent a year to 6.1 percent in the fifth year. That looks like a modest reduction for now, but when compounded over many decades, it could greatly reduce projected Medicare expenditures by midcentury. Since Medicare policies often ripple through the entire health care system, overall health expenditures should slow.
 Meanwhile, the administration has deliberately ducked some of the most contentious issues. There is no mention of requiring individuals to carry health insurance on themselves or their children. No mention of requiring employers to pay for coverage. No mention of having a public plan compete with private plans in a national insurance exchange. No discussion of whether employee health benefits should be taxed. No talk of requiring insurers to cover all applicants. No mention of government negotiating Medicare drug prices.
 The White House has obviously decided that it is best to let Congress work out the compromises and decide how to allocate the pain. That is the opposite of the Clinton administration's approach. It hatched a highly detailed plan in secret that never won Congressional support and crashed under a barrage of opposition from affected industries.
 We do not challenge Mr. Obama's political instincts. We simply note that someone will need to make the hard choices if health care reform and universal coverage are to succeed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); HOME HEALTH CARE (52%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



350 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Men's Fashion Magazine; THE REMIX; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Junk Bonds

BYLINE: By HAMISH ANDERSON

 BODY:
As the recession increases the pace of industrial closings in the Rust Belt, one Midwestern manufacturer, Cleveland Art, is actually benefiting from the economic downturn. Its furniture is in numerous Ralph Lauren stores, Steven Spielberg has bought some pieces for his home, and the company recently opened a store in Los Angeles. Yet its design studio is in a dilapidated industrial building in Ohio, surrounded by an acre of land covered with rusting machine parts. That's because the designer Jason Wein and his 10 or so employees make furniture out of scraps salvaged from shuttered factories, of which there is no shortage. The gears, turbines, pipes and panels -- typically from the 1860s to the 1920s -- are the objects from which they create dressers, seating, tables and lamps. 
 Wein, 38, started making furniture in the early '90s, while living in an old car factory in Cleveland. ''It was unheated, but I really liked the space,'' he says. ''I had no money, so I made my own furniture from parts that were left behind.'' Before long, visitors were saying they loved his coffee table -- unaware that its legs might have come from a conveyor belt and its top from a riveting machine -- and asking how much he'd sell it for. Today, Cleveland Art makes about 15 tables a week, selling for $1,500 to $15,000. 
 Wein also blows glass, using unorthodox techniques to create bowls and lampshades that look as if they haven't quite hardened, conveying a sense of water in motion. As a boy, he was either digging holes in streams, studying the movement of water or playing at his uncle's salvage yard. So Cleveland Art lamps -- with glass shades blown by Wein and stands from, you guessed it, discarded hardware -- are the perfect amalgam of his two passions. ''Basically,'' he says, ''I'm inspired by nature and garbage.'' Go to clevelandart.com. HAMISH ANDERSON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN ULRICH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FURNITURE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (72%); RALPH LAUREN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



351 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TRANSCRIPT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Reassurance on the Economy, and Addressing Afghanistan

 BODY:
President Obama spoke in a 35-minute interview aboard Air Force One on Friday afternoon as he traveled from Columbus, Ohio, to Andrews Air Force Base. Following are excerpts, as recorded by The New York Times. A full transcript is available at nytimes.com/national.
 On The Economy 
 Q. You said it's going to take a long time to get out of this economic crisis. Can you assure the American people that the economy will be growing by the summer, the fall or the end of the year?
 A. Our belief and expectation is that we will get all the pillars in place for recovery this year. Those are the things we have control over, and we have confidence that working with Congress we can get the pillars of recovery in place. How long it will take before recovery actually translates into stronger job markets and so forth is going to depend on a whole range of factors, including our ability to get other countries to coordinate and take similar actions, because part of what you're seeing now is weaknesses in Europe that are actually greater than some of the weaknesses here, bouncing back and having an impact on our markets.
 On Afghanistan
 Q. I know we have a review going on right now about Afghanistan policy, but right now can you tell us, are we winning in Afghanistan? 
 A. No. I think that we are -- we are doing an extraordinary job. Or let me say it this way: Our troops are doing an extraordinary job in a very difficult situation. But you've seen conditions deteriorate over the last couple of years. The Taliban is bolder than it was. I think the -- in the southern regions of the country, you're seeing them attack in ways that we have not seen previously. The national government still has not gained the confidence of the Afghan people. And so it's going to be critical for us to not only get through these national elections to stabilize the security situation, but we've got to recast our policy so that our military, diplomatic and development goals are all aligned to ensure that Al Qaeda and extremists that would do us harm don't have the kinds of safe havens that allow them to operate.
 Q. Do you see a time when you might be willing to reach out to more moderate elements of the Taliban, to try to peel them away, toward reconciliation?
 A. If you talk to General Petraeus, I think he would argue that part of the success in Iraq involved reaching out to people that we would consider to be Islamic fundamentalists, but who were willing to work with us because they had been completely alienated by the tactics of Al Qaeda in Iraq. 
 There may be some comparable opportunities in Afghanistan and the Pakistani region. But the situation in Afghanistan is, if anything, more complex. You have a less governed region, a history of fierce independence among tribes. Those tribes are multiple and sometimes operate at cross purposes, so figuring all that out is going to be much more of a challenge. 
 On Rendition
 Q. Leon Panetta has said that we're going to continue renditions, provided we're not sending people to countries that torture. Why continue them at all?
 A. Well, I think that you're giving a slightly more definitive response than Director Panetta provided, but what I'll say is this: We are now conducting a review of the rendition policy. There could be situations -- and I emphasize 'could be' because we haven't made a determination yet -- where, let's say we have a well-known Al Qaeda operative that doesn't surface very often, appears in a third country with whom we don't have an extradition relationship or would not be willing to prosecute, but we think is a very dangerous person. I think we still have to think about how do we deal with that scenario in a way that comports with international law and abides by my very clear edict that we don't torture and that we ultimately provide anybody that we're detaining an opportunity through habeas corpus to answer to charges. 
 On the Short Term
 Q. Speaking of the economy, what advice would you give ordinary Americans who are struggling through these times? You've asked people for their patience. What should people do now?
 A. What I don't think people should do is suddenly stuff money in their mattresses and pull back completely from spending. I don't think that people should be fearful about our future. I don't think that people should suddenly mistrust all of our financial institutions, because the overwhelming majority of them have managed things reasonably well. 
 On the Office
 Q. Have you gotten a new appreciation at all or maybe a little sympathy for what your predecessors went through in terms of a president can't control all the events?
 A. Somebody noted to me that by the time something reaches my desk, that means it's really hard. Because if it were easy, somebody else would have made the decision and somebody else would have solved it. 
 Q. Are you sleeping, sir, or is it hard to sleep?
 A. Ohhhhh, I always sleep, because when I'm not sleeping I'm working.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (87%); AL-QAEDA (86%); TERRORISM (85%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); AIR FORCES (78%); RELIGION (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); TRANSCRIPTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); FUNDAMENTALISM (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



352 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: State Whittling Down Stimulus Wish List

BYLINE: By MARGARET FARLEY STEELE

 BODY:
The office of Gov. M. Jodi Rell is poring over a giant wish list from municipal officials and others to determine how the state will disperse the $3 billion it expects to receive under the federal economic stimulus bill.
 Connecticut's share of President Obama's $787 billion recovery package includes $302 million for ''shovel ready'' highway and bridge infrastructure work.
 It also includes $137 million for mass transit projects; $136 million for special education; and $97 million for school districts with low-income students. 
 As a first step, the governor's office last week whittled down a $12 billion list submitted by 140 municipalities and state agencies to $6 billion worth of eligible projects from which to choose. In keeping with the president's desire for more transparency, it planned to post the list of Connecticut's projects online at ct.gov/recovery. 
 The projects that made the first cut were deemed more shovel ready than others, and officials tried to weed out duplication, said James J. Finley, executive director and chief executive of the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities. He is one of 20 state officials, business leaders and agency representatives on the Connecticut Working Recovery Group, a task force formed by the governor to help prioritize the projects. It was to meet for the second time on Monday.
 The governor's staff has been meeting daily for several weeks at the State Capitol to go over the federal bill with a fine-tooth comb to identify all financing opportunities for the state and to study time constraints, said Matthew Fritz, special assistant to the governor. Fifty percent of the shovel-ready projects and transportation work must be under way by June, and Connecticut's limited construction season adds urgency to the task. 
 ''We need to make some decisions within a couple of weeks,'' Mr. Fritz said. The message from the federal government, he said, is, '' 'If you're not using that money, we'll find somebody else.' '' 
 The process for choosing the winning projects for such an unprecedented spending spree is daunting and not yet clearly defined, Mr. Finley said. ''There are still so many unanswered questions,'' he said. What is clear, he added, is that ''if you look at the sheer number of eligible projects, a lot of people are going to be disappointed.''
 About $63.5 million of the federal money for Connecticut is being earmarked for home energy efficiency, $48 million for clean water programs and $46 million for alternative energy initiatives. Tax breaks to 1.35 million state residents and the one-time assistance of $250 to the hardest-hit residents, like disabled older people, are also anticipated. 
 Also as a result of the bill, thousands of residents had an extra $25 in their unemployment checks last week.
 Connecticut's municipalities asked for money to pay for new schools, sewage plants, repaved roads, commuter parking lots and tourism promotion. Walking and bicycle paths, police dog training, street lighting and at least one boat launch were also requested. 
 In addition to a primary goal of getting people back to work and jump-starting the ailing economy, Governor Rell has said that she favors projects that are 25 percent ''green.'' 
 Officials estimate that as many as 41,000 jobs statewide could be created by stimulus spending. For December, Connecticut's unemployment rate was 7.1 percent, the State Labor Department said. Hardest hit cities were Hartford, with the December jobless rate at 12.7 percent; Waterbury, 10.6 percent; and Bridgeport, 10.1 percent. The national average is 7.2 percent. 
 Bridgeport is seeking $1 billion -- more than any other city in the state -- for projects, including $50 million for the demolition and reconstruction of the Congress Street Bridge and $59 million for sewer upgrades that ''are necessary for economic development projects of any size to go forward,'' said Elaine Ficarro, a spokeswoman for Mayor Bill Finch. Those projects alone could create 1,100 jobs, she said.
 Hartford is seeking $70 million to help pay for an $85 million public safety complex for fire, police and emergency services that would bridge the city's downtown and its blighted North End neighborhoods and also serve as a homeland security hub for the region, Mayor Eddie A. Perez said. He said the project would create 1,200 jobs. 
 Stamford's nearly half-billion-dollar request includes park enhancements and school improvements, $15 million for turf fields among them. Darien requested $5.5 million to mitigate flooding. And Westport wants funds for a $1 million animal shelter and a $200,000 refreshment stopover on the town golf course. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HIGH OVERHEAD: An Amtrak bridge across Route 1 in Branford.(PHOTOGRAPH BY C.M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



353 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Attorney General Chided for Language on Race

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama has chided his attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., for describing America as a ''nation of cowards'' when discussing race, wading into a tumult that flared over Mr. Holder's indictment of the way this country talks about ethnicity. 
 ''I think it's fair to say that if I had been advising my attorney general, we would have used different language,'' Mr. Obama said in a mild rebuke from America's first black president to its first black attorney general.
 In an interview with The New York Times on Friday, the president said that despite Mr. Holder's choice of words, he had a point. 
 ''We're oftentimes uncomfortable with talking about race until there's some sort of racial flare-up or conflict,'' he said, adding, ''We could probably be more constructive in facing up to sort of the painful legacy of slavery and Jim Crow and discrimination.''
 Mr. Holder made his comments last month during an address to employees at the Justice Department, saying that ''though this nation has proudly thought of itself as an ethnic melting pot, in things racial, we have always been and we, I believe, continue to be in too many ways essentially a nation of cowards.'' 
 His remarks ignited protest, particularly from conservatives. One post, by Stephan Tawney on the American Pundit blog, said that ''our attorney general is black, both major parties are led by black men, the president is black.''
 ''And yet,'' Mr. Tawney wrote, ''we're apparently a 'nation of cowards' on race.''
 Mr. Obama was asked whether he agreed with Mr. Holder. He hesitated for five seconds before responding. 
 ''I'm not somebody who believes that constantly talking about race somehow solves racial tensions,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I think what solves racial tensions is fixing the economy, putting people to work, making sure that people have health care, ensuring that every kid is learning out there. I think if we do that, then we'll probably have more fruitful conversations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); INDICTMENTS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); CONSERVATISM (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



354 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G., Where Taxpayers' Dollars Go to Die

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
''DERIVATIVES are dangerous.'' 
 That simple sentence, written by Warren Buffett, begins an enlightening discussion in Berkshire Hathaway's most recent annual report. Mr. Buffett's views on derivatives, gleaned from his own unhappy encounters with them, should be required reading for all United States taxpayers. 
 Why? Because we own almost 80 percent of the American International Group, the giant insurer whose collapse was a direct result of derivatives it sold during the late, great credit boom. 
 A.I.G. nearly barreled off the cliff last September, when it couldn't meet its obligations to customers who had bought a version of derivatives called credit default swaps. Such swaps are like insurance policies; bondholders buy them to protect themselves from default on various forms of debt. 
 When A.I.G. couldn't meet the wave of obligations it owed on the swaps last fall as Wall Street went into a tailspin, the Federal Reserve stepped in with an $85 billion loan to keep the hobbled insurer from going bankrupt; over all, the government has pledged a total of $160 billion to A.I.G. to help it meet its obligations and restructure operations. 
 So is A.I.G. the taxpayer gift that keeps on taking? Sure looks that way. And while no one can say with certainty whether more money will be needed, the sheer volume of derivatives engineered by a small London unit of A.I.G. suggests that taxpayers haven't seen the bottom of this money pit. 
 Some $440 billion in credit default swaps sat on the company's books before it collapsed. Its biggest customers, European banks and United States investment banks, bought the swaps to insure against defaults on a variety of debt holdings, including pools of mortgages and corporate loans. 
 Because of the way A.I.G. wrote its swaps, and because the company had a double-A credit rating at the time, it did not have to put up collateral to assure its customers that it would be able to pay on the insurance if necessary. Collateral would be required only if A.I.G.'s credit rating were cut or if the debt underlying the swaps declined. 
 Both of these ''unthinkable'' events occurred in 2008. Suddenly, A.I.G. had to cough up collateral it didn't have.
 SO, you see, the rescue of A.I.G. also involved a bailout of its many customers, none of whom the insurer or the government is willing to identify. 
 Nevertheless, Edward M. Liddy, the chief executive of A.I.G., explained to investors last week that ''the vast majority'' of taxpayer funds ''have passed through A.I.G. to other financial institutions'' as the company unwound deals with its customers.
 On Wall Street, those customers are known as ''counterparties,'' and Mr. Liddy wouldn't provide details on who the counterparties were or how much they received. But a person briefed on the deals said A.I.G.'s former customers include Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and two large French banks, Societe Generale and Calyon. 
 All the banks declined to comment. 
 How much money has gone to counterparties since the company's collapse? The person briefed on the deals put the figure at around $50 billion. 
 Unfortunately, that is likely to rise.
 According to its most recent financial statements, A.I.G. had $302 billion in credit insurance commitments at the end of 2008. Of course, the company is not going to have to make good on all that insurance: the underlying securities are not all going to zero. 
 But as the economy deteriorates, A.I.G.'s insurance bets certainly become more perilous. And because most of A.I.G.'s swaps are known as the ''pay as you go type,'' collateral must be supplied when the underlying debt declines in value. Swap arrangements made by other insurers require payments only if a default occurs. 
 So the meter is constantly running at A.I.G. Just as quickly as taxpayer funds flow into the firm, chunks of it go right out the door to settle derivatives claims.
 A.I.G.'s insurance commitment stood at ''only'' $302 billion in part because the government has already voided $62 billion of the protection A.I.G. had written on pools of especially toxic securities. The underlying collateral on those contracts, valued at about $32 billion or so, now sits in a facility that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York oversees and which we, the taxpayers, own. 
 In order to rip up those contracts, the taxpayers had to make A.I.G.'s counterparties whole by buying the debt that A.I.G. had insured and paying out -- in cash -- the remaining amount owed to the counterparties. 
 Of the $302 billion in insurance outstanding at A.I.G., about $235 billion was sold to foreign banks and covers prime home mortgages and corporate loans. The banks that bought this insurance did so to reduce the money they must set aside for regulatory capital requirements. 
 A.I.G. also wrote $50 billion of insurance on pools of corporate loans. These contracts are performing O.K. for now, the company has said. 
 But there's yet another complication that will probably force A.I.G. to cough up cash more quickly than it otherwise might have had to. That's because it didn't simply write insurance protection on debt; it also entered into yet another derivative contract -- known as an interest rate swap -- with counterparties buying the protection. 
 The reason A.I.G. entered into the second contract was that banks feared they were also exposed to interest rate risks on the loans bundled into debt pools. Presto! A.I.G. was happy to remove that risk by writing another complicated swap. 
 Now, however, A.I.G. not only has to meet collateral calls as the value of the debt it insured withers, but also has to post collateral related to the interest rate swaps. 
 Another troubling aspect of these deals is how long it takes to untangle them when they go awry. Back to Mr. Buffett's recent shareholder letter: when Berkshire acquired the insurance company General Re in 1998, he wrote, General Re had 23,218 derivatives contracts that it had struck with 884 counterparties. 
 Mr. Buffett wanted out from under the contracts and he began unwinding them. ''Though we were under no pressure and were operating in benign markets as we exited,'' he said, ''it took us five years and more than $400 million in losses to largely complete the task.''
 When you look back with the benefit of hindsight, it is truly amazing how outsized A.I.G.'s insurance commitment was, at $440 billion. After all, in 2005, when A.I.G. put many of these swaps on its books, the market value of the entire company was around $200 billion.
 That means the geniuses at A.I.G. who wrote the insurance were willing to bet more than double their company's value that defaults would not become problematic.
 That's some throw of the dice. Too bad it came up snake eyes for taxpayers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BONDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%); EDWARD M LIDDY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



355 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Obama Ponders Outreach To Elements of the Taliban

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Jeff Zeleny and Peter Baker contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama declared in an interview that the United States was not winning the war in Afghanistan and opened the door to a reconciliation process in which the American military would reach out to moderate elements of the Taliban, much as it did with Sunni militias in Iraq.
 Mr. Obama pointed to the success in peeling Iraqi insurgents away from more hard-core elements of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a strategy that many credit as much as the increase of American forces with turning the war around in the last two years. ''There may be some comparable opportunities in Afghanistan and in the Pakistani region,'' he said, while cautioning that solutions in Afghanistan will be complicated.
In a 35-minute conversation with The New York Times aboard Air Force One on Friday, Mr. Obama reviewed the challenges to his young administration. The president said he could not assure Americans the economy would begin growing again this year. But he pledged that he would ''get all the pillars in place for recovery this year'' and urged Americans not to ''stuff money in their mattresses.''
 ''I don't think that people should be fearful about our future,'' he said. ''I don't think that people should suddenly mistrust all of our financial institutions.'' 
 As he pressed forward with ambitious plans at home to rewrite the tax code, expand health care coverage and curb climate change, Mr. Obama dismissed criticism from conservatives that he was driving the country toward socialism. After the interview, which took place as the president was flying home from Ohio, he called reporters from the Oval Office to assert that his actions have been ''entirely consistent with free-market principles'' and to point out that large-scale government intervention in the markets and expansion of social welfare programs began under President George W. Bush. 
 Sitting at the head of a conference table with his suit coat off, Mr. Obama exhibited confidence six weeks into his presidency despite the economic turmoil around the globe and the deteriorating situations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He struck a reassuring tone about the economy, saying he had no trouble sleeping at night.
 ''Look, I wish I had the luxury of just dealing with a modest recession or just dealing with health care or just dealing with energy or just dealing with Iraq or just dealing with Afghanistan,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I don't have that luxury, and I don't think the American people do, either.''
 The president spoke at length about the struggle with terrorism in Afghanistan and elsewhere, staking out positions that at times seemed more comparable to those of his predecessor than many of Mr. Obama's more liberal supporters would like. He did not rule out the option of snatching terrorism suspects out of hostile countries.
 Asked if the United States was winning in Afghanistan, a war he effectively adopted as his own last month by ordering an additional 17,000 troops sent there, Mr. Obama replied flatly, ''No.''
 Mr. Obama said on the campaign trail last year that the possibility of breaking away some elements of the Taliban ''should be explored,'' an idea also considered by some military leaders. But now he has started a review of policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan intended to find a new strategy, and he signaled that reconciliation could emerge as an important initiative, mirroring the strategy used by Gen. David H. Petraeus in Iraq.
 ''If you talk to General Petraeus, I think he would argue that part of the success in Iraq involved reaching out to people that we would consider to be Islamic fundamentalists, but who were willing to work with us because they had been completely alienated by the tactics of Al Qaeda in Iraq,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 At the same time, he acknowledged that outreach may not yield the same success. ''The situation in Afghanistan is, if anything, more complex,'' he said. ''You have a less governed region, a history of fierce independence among tribes. Those tribes are multiple and sometimes operate at cross purposes, and so figuring all that out is going to be much more of a challenge.''
 For American military planners, reaching out to some members of the Taliban is fraught with complexities. For one thing, officials would have to figure out which Taliban members might be within the reach of a reconciliation campaign, no easy task in a lawless country with feuding groups of insurgents.
 And administration officials have criticized the Pakistani government for its own reconciliation deal with local Taliban leaders in the Swat Valley, where Islamic law has been imposed and radical figures hold sway. Pakistani officials have sought to reassure administration officials that their deal was not a surrender to the Taliban, but rather an attempt to drive a wedge between hard-core Taliban leaders and local Islamists.
 During the interview, Mr. Obama also left open the option for American operatives to capture terrorism suspects abroad even without the cooperation of a country where they were found. ''There could be situations -- and I emphasize 'could be' because we haven't made a determination yet -- where, let's say that we have a well-known Al Qaeda operative that doesn't surface very often, appears in a third country with whom we don't have an extradition relationship or would not be willing to prosecute, but we think is a very dangerous person,'' he said.
 ''I think we still have to think about how do we deal with that kind of scenario,'' he added. The president went on to say that ''we don't torture'' and that ''we ultimately provide anybody that we're detaining an opportunity through habeas corpus to answer to charges.''
 Aides later said Mr. Obama did not mean to suggest that everybody held by American forces would be granted habeas corpus or the right to challenge their detention. In a court filing last month, the Obama administration agreed with the Bush administration position that 600 prisoners in a cavernous prison on the American air base at Bagram in Afghanistan have no right to seek their release in court.
 Instead, aides said Mr. Obama's comment referred only to a Supreme Court decision last year finding that prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, have the right to go to federal court to challenge their continued detention.
 Mr. Obama signaled that those on the left seeking a wholesale reversal of Mr. Bush's detainee policy might be disappointed. Mr. Obama said that by the time he got into office, the Bush administration had taken ''steps to correct certain policies and procedures after those first couple of years'' after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 He credited not Mr. Bush but the former Central Intelligence Agency director Michael V. Hayden and the former director of national intelligence Mike McConnell, who ''really had America's security interests in mind when they acted, and I think were mindful of American values and ideals.''
 Turning to domestic affairs, Mr. Obama indicated that the end was not in sight when it came to the economic crisis and suggested that he expected it could take another $750 billion to address the problem of weak and failing financial institutions beyond the $700 billion already approved. Maintaining support for the additional costs of bailouts is quite likely to be among Mr. Obama's biggest challenges, given the anger that many Americans feel toward Wall Street executives who they believe are being unduly rewarded with bailout money. 
 The budget planhe released last month included a placeholder estimate of $250 billion for additional bank bailouts -- an amount that represents the projected long-term cost to taxpayers of a $750 billion infusion into the financial sector -- and in the interview Mr. Obama indicated that those figures were what he was likely to seek from Congress.
 ''We have no reason to revise that estimate,'' he said.
 Addressing the fear and uncertainty among Americans as job losses mount and stock markets sink, Mr. Obama urged Americans to ''be prudent'' in their personal financial decisions, but not to hunker down so much that it would further slow the recovery.
 ''What I don't think people should do is suddenly stuff money in their mattresses and pull back completely from spending,'' he said.
 Still, he avoided guessing when the situation might begin to turn around. ''Our belief and expectation is that we will get all the pillars in place for recovery this year,'' he said. ''How long it will take before recovery actually translates into stronger job markets and so forth is going to depend on a whole range of factors.''
 He added that ''part of what you're seeing now is weaknesses in Europe that are actually greater than some weaknesses here, bouncing back and having an impact on our markets.''
 Mr. Obama's uncertain forecast about when the economy will begin to rebound contrasted with the projections embedded in the budget he recently released.
 That plan rested on the assumption that the economy would shrink by 1.2 percent this year, a projection that many economists, including some in his administration, consider overly optimistic because it implies the economy would bounce back in the second half of this year. 
 As he settles into his new job, Mr. Obama said he spent much of his time reading briefing books, but still tried to stay in touch by perusing newspapers and thumbing through weekly newsmagazines. But he said he did not watch much television, except basketball games.
 Mr. Obama rode to the White House partly on his savvy use of new technology, and he has a staff-written blog on his presidential Web site. Even so, he said he did not find blogs to be reliable, citing the economy as one example. 
 ''Part of the reason we don't spend a lot of time looking at blogs,'' he said, ''is because if you haven't looked at it very carefully, then you may be under the impression that somehow there's a clean answer one way or another -- well, you just nationalize all the banks, or you just leave them alone and they'll be fine.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama fielding questions aboard Air Force One. He addressed the war in Afghanistan and the state of the economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 On the economy, President Obama said he would get ''the pillars in place for recovery this year.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AL-QAEDA (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); TAX LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009



356 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: The Vanishing Sidekick

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
WHEN Jimmy Fallon showed up on NBC's ''Late Night'' last week without a sidekick, it looked like yet another sign that the Ed McMahon era is over; so many talk show hosts work solo that the second-banana position seems almost as obsolete as the foretopman or the Linotype operator. Even the word sounds antiquated: current parlance favors the more ''Top Gun''-ian term, wingman.
 A real sidekick is something between a friend and a servant -- a fervant. Sancho Panza is the exemplar, a paid employee who behaves as if he would gladly serve free, but another is James Boswell, so humbly devoted to his friend Dr. Johnson that he took on the role of amanuensis. 
 So when Conan O'Brien announced that he would bring back Andy Richter as his announcer when he takes over ''The Tonight Show'' from Jay Leno in June, that seemed portentous. In a time of rising unemployment, lowered expectations and sagging egos, it could be sensible, and perhaps even therapeutic, to put the professional yes-man back to work. 
 Maybe. Then again, Mr. O'Brien has not yet set off a stampede of new hirings at other talk shows. Mr. Leno, who starts his own new NBC talk show at 10 p.m., plans to work solo. David Letterman leans on his musical director Paul Shaffer for moral support and sycophancy.
 Mr. Fallon took over Mr. O'Brien's job at ''Late Night'' without a sidekick or even a toadying music man: the members of his house band, the Roots, observe impassively and never crack a smile, let alone an encouraging chuckle. 
 Chelsea Handler has her personal assistant, Chuy Bravo, at her side on her talk show on the E! cable channel, but more established hosts like Jimmy Kimmel, Craig Ferguson and Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert prefer to work alone.
 Former Vice President Dick Cheney may share some blame. He stretched the job description so far to fit his own agenda that the definition of ''vice'' lost its secondary meaning; at times during the build-up to the Iraq war, Mr. Cheney seemed more like Cardinal Richelieu than Tonto. 
 Joe Biden now has the title, the residence and the security detail, but the position has been dummied down. Mostly, President Obama treats him like a latter-day Paul Shaffer, humoring him briefly, then shunting him off-stage before he goes on too long. 
 But the demise of the second banana is also a fallout of the interactive age. Now that everyone feels entitled to a say -- by blog, text message or call-in vote to ''American Idol'' -- the audience has become the sidekick. Laughter and applause come on command, then a chosen few in the studio are rewarded with humbling on-camera cameos, whether it's dancing with Ellen DeGeneres, turning stupid pet tricks with Mr. Letterman or licking a lawn mower on Mr. Fallon's show. 
 In the olden days, back when Peggy Cass clowned for Jack Paar and Mr. McMahon guffawed for Johnny Carson, the audience was heard, but only occasionally seen. (When Mr. Carson wandered into the audience for ''Stump the Band'' or to read minds as El Mouldo, people were used more as props than active participants.) 
 A deputy can sometimes rise to top billing: Regis Philbin began as the sidekick on ''The Joey Bishop Show,'' before he moved up to full-fledged co-host. Before becoming president, Teddy Roosevelt served as vice president to William McKinley, and Rhoda was a second banana to Mary Tyler Moore until she got her spinoff.
 And that could be another reason sidekicks have fallen out of favor: cable and the Internet are multiplying opportunities for showbiz advancement. Even Don Quixote wouldn't have been thrilled to see Sancho Panza leave and start his own quest on cable; Robinson Crusoe would certainly have minded if his man Friday was recruited to be the celebrity spokesman for a restaurant chain like T.G.I.F. 
 Television used to value henchmen more highly. Matt Dillon had Chester on ''Gunsmoke,'' and Mr. Roarke had Tattoo on ''Fantasy Island.'' (Ms. Handler may have hired her sidekick as an homage to Mr. Roarke's right-hand man, since Mr. Bravo is about the same height as Herve Villechaize). 
 Game shows follow the same trajectory. Vanna White still reveals the letters for Pat Sajak on ''Wheel of Fortune,'' but newer game shows have eliminated the position -- or multiplied it. On ''Deal or No Deal,'' Howie Mandel is assisted by 26 buxom, scantily clad models who hold prize money concealed inside silver attache cases. 
 ''The Dark Knight'' is one of several Batman movie adaptations that erase Robin from the story. 
 Reality shows are not picking up the slack: even Paris Hilton has shed her Nicole.
 ''House,'' a modernized riff on Sherlock Holmes, doesn't leave out Dr. Watson entirely, but it defuses the role. Dr. Gregory House, the brilliant medical sleuth (and addict) played by Hugh Laurie, doesn't have just one faithful companion; he has several. James Wilson is his best and long-suffering friend, but most of House's time and deductive reasoning is spent in the company of his team of kowtowing residents and his flirty female boss.
 So it doesn't look like Mr. O'Brien is setting a trend; by seeking out the aid and comfort of a sidekick, he isn't modernizing the post-Leno ''Tonight Show,'' he is returning to a happier, friendlier ''Tonight'' era when a host like Mr. Carson had no competition on other networks, or his own.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GUFFAW: Ed McMahon, happy to be part-friend and part-servant to Johnny Carson.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS C. PIZAC/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
WING MEN: Dick Cheney didn't seem to take a back seat to the boss, while Joe Biden's role seems more Tonto-like. Andy Richter, above, is returning as sidekick to Conan O'Brien.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA EDELSON/NBC UNIVERSAL)(pg. WK7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); MUSIC (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

PERSON: CONAN O'BRIEN (89%); JON STEWART (79%); DICK CHENEY (64%); DAVID LETTERMAN (58%); JAY LENO (58%); CHELSEA HANDLER (57%); JOE BIDEN (50%); STEPHEN COLBERT (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (77%)

TITLE: Late Night (TV Program); Tonight Show, The (TV Program); Late Night (TV Program); Tonight Show, The (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



357 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Yes, More Mr. Nice Guy

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, who covers politics for the magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Inside the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.''

 BODY:
Not quite seven weeks into Barack Obama's presidency, the capital's leading thinkers seem to agree that the era of postpartisanship is over. Obama's team made little secret of their intention to win broad support for his stimulus plan -- an effort that yielded three Republican votes in the Senate and none in the House. The president's pick for the Commerce Department, Senator Judd Gregg, a Republican from New Hampshire, turned down the job, citing his personal opposition to the bill. According to E. J. Dionne Jr. of The Washington Post, Obama himself, speaking to a group of columnists aboard Air Force One, suggested that in the future, he would approach Republicans with more wariness. ''You know, I am an eternal optimist,'' the president said. ''That doesn't mean I'm a sap.'' 
 Such talk acted like a shot of adrenaline to the stilled hearts of liberal bloggers and columnists who had feared that Obama might squander a chance to stomp on his bewildered opposition. So much energy has been spent berating the idea of bipartisanship, in fact, that no one has stopped to ask what Obama means by it. As the political scientist James Morone recently pointed out on The Times's Op-Ed page, legislative bipartisanship, in the sense of two-party unity behind a single agenda, has never really existed. The presidents we tend to immortalize hardly managed to transcend party politics; their greatness grew from their willingness to articulate arguments that were calibrated to be divisive. Franklin Roosevelt infuriated generations of conservatives who reviled his concept of expansive government. Ronald Reagan's passionate counterargument made him an enduring enemy to the left. 
 This doesn't mean, though, that our politics have not fundamentally changed over the last few decades. Roosevelt and his Republican critics had profound disagreements, but both sides understood that their dispute was ideological rather than personal, the clash of opposing theories in a common pursuit. In his outstanding biography of Tip O'Neill, John A. Farrell describes how, far from slamming the Oval Office door on a politician who didn't agree with them, Reagan's aides kept O'Neill's favorite cigars on hand. Reagan and the Democratic speaker would spar heatedly for hours in the Oval Office (and in the news media), only to shake hands and do it again. Unlike Obama, of course, Reagan had little choice but to do business with his adversary, who controlled the House. But from the stormy dialogue between Reagan and O'Neill came a more balanced program than either man might have authored alone. 
 Such an acknowledgment of common purpose has all but vanished, as the realignment in American politics -- a hardening of regional loyalties that began with battles over civil rights and Vietnam -- deepened the cultural divisions in Washington. Each party has demonized the other and embraced the notion that dissent can have no moral or intellectual value. True, we've not quite reached the depths of the 1850s, when the pro-slavery congressman Preston Brooks severely beat his colleague Charles Sumner with a cane (it's a shame they didn't have YouTube), but nonetheless, the two sides rarely breach their mistrust long enough to bicker like ordinary humans, let alone share a cigar.
 This is why Obama is right to value bipartisanship, even if he doesn't manage to win a single Republican vote -- and even if he doesn't need any to enact his legislative program. During the closing weeks of the fall campaign, Obama told me that bridging the cultural chasm in America would require of him, as president, a governing style that acknowledged differences rather than exploited them. This is why he intends to keep Republican leaders on speed dial, even if they vote against him -- in doing so, he demonstrates to the voters that he will not be dragged into the pettiness and derision that have caused so many of them to lose faith in their government. He may also, over time, accumulate enough goodwill to wrangle Republican votes when he really does need them. If Obama is serious about making the difficult choices necessary to reform entitlements, for instance, he is bound to lose some support within his own party, and he may well find himself in need of partners from unexpected quarters.
 In this way, Obama's efforts haven't been the failure that some think them to be. Eric Cantor, the Republican House whip, told me that he had met with the president four times already and thought him sincere and likable. The last of these meetings came on the night when senior Republicans in the House managed to corral their caucus into unanimously rejecting Obama's stimulus program, then marched straight up Pennsylvania Avenue for drinks at the White House. He sought Republican backing for his plan to withdraw from Iraq and won conditional support from no less an adversary than John McCain. And while the president has taken to chastising his critics for old ideas, and while they have pilloried his economic instincts as being essentially Marxist, neither side has yet done so with anything like the venom that characterized the previous era.
 The tone of a presidency reveals itself only in time. After all, George W. Bush worked with Ted Kennedy to create his signature education plan during his first months in office, and he enjoyed overwhelming bipartisan support in the months after Sept. 11, 2001. It would have been hard to foresee then that the totality of his two terms would be remembered as one of the least cooperative periods in the country's history. Similarly, it's far too soon to assume that Obama's opening act signals the curtain coming down on his bipartisan ideal. Only the most reactionary forces in Obama's own party would demand that he stop trying to overhaul the contemptuous culture of the capital. And only a sap would listen to them. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER) CHART: THE GREAT DIVIDER: Percentage of respondents in March 2001 who said they thought George W. Bush would or would not compromise with Democrats in order to get things done.(Source: The New York Times/CBS News, March 2001
 CBS News, February 2007.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERAL MEDIA (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (56%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



358 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Reclamation Projects March 1-7

 BODY:
THE NEWS The Obama administration announced details of a plan to help as many as four million people avoid foreclosure on their homes, at a cost to taxpayers of about $75 billion, by allowing some with little or no equity in their homes to refinance them and others, who cannot afford their mortgage payments, to get their loans modified.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The plan works mainly by lowering interest costs, not forgiving principal, a feature that drew criticism as too generous to lenders and insufficient to solve the problem. People with big mortgages or big income shortfalls would not be helped. Conservatives questioned why taxpayers should help struggling borrowers at all. 
THE NEWS The American International Group, the giant insurance and financial conglomerate that nearly failed in September, said it lost $61.7 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008, the most any corporation has ever lost in a quarter.
 BEHIND THE NEWS After three previous bailouts totaling $153 billion left taxpayers owning 80 percent of A.I.G. without managing to right the company, federal officials agreed to lend it $30 billion more, saying they had little choice. Angry senators said that A.I.G. had used earlier bailout funds to settle risky derivative contracts, and demanded to know the identities of counterparties. Fed officials said revealing the names could cripple A.I.G.'s business.
 THE NEWSBen S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, tacitly endorsed President Obama's call for huge increases in spending and trillion-dollar deficits over the next few years, saying aggressive action was needed to stem the economic crisis.
 BEHIND THE NEWS He did so with his nose held. ''All else equal, this is a development that all of us would have preferred to avoid,'' Mr. Bernanke told a Senate committee. ''But our economy and financial markets face extraordinary challenges, and a failure by policy makers to address these challenges in a timely way would likely be more costly in the end.'' He did not address the merits of specific spending plans.
 THE NEWS Even if General Motors gets the $16.6 billion in new loans it is seeking from the Treasury, there is ''substantial doubt'' that it can survive, its outside auditors reported.
 BEHIND THE NEWS But without those new loans, G.M. is a goner for sure, the company said. Sales have fallen by half, the company lost $30.9 billion in 2008 and the $13.4 billion it has already borrowed from the Treasury won't be enough to get it through the recession. The warning from the auditors could have been a death sentence, but G.M. said it had won the company some forbearance from lenders as it faces a March 31 deadline to show the government a viable restructuring plan. 
 THE NEWS Another 651,000 nonfarm jobs disappeared in February, the Labor Department reported, pushing the unemployment rate to 8.1 percent, its highest level since 1983.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Economists said the job-loss figures -- 4.4 million since the recession began 14 months ago -- all but erased any hope of a recovery before 2010, and some said they pointed to deeper shifts in the economy: ''Those jobs aren't coming back,'' said John E. Silvia of Wachovia Bank. Neither were stock prices last week: Grim investors snuffed out one rally after another and beat down the major indexes to new 12-year lows. Onetime blue chips like Citigroup traded for less than $2 a share. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES
STEPHEN CHERNIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
REBECCA COOK/REUTERS
 PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); RECESSION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (69%); AUDITS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); ACCOUNTING (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009



359 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Can Bottles and Nickels Turn to Millions?

BYLINE: By DIANA MARSZALEK; Kate Stone Lombardi contributed reporting.

DATELINE: LARCHMONT 

 BODY:
 WITH two teenage children, and the taste for fizzy drinks that comes with them, Becky Salko rarely leaves a refundable can or bottle unredeemed.
 Though her take from hauling the empty cans and bottles to her local supermarket -- from 85 cents to $2.50 a visit -- doesn't go far, Ms. Salko, 49, a Larchmont preschool teacher, said there was no good reason to leave behind the containers and the 5 cents each that comes with returning them to the store.
 ''I take every possible bottle back to Stop & Shop, scrunch them and use the money from them to food shop,'' she said. ''To me it just feels like free money.''
 The load of cans and bottles toted to supermarkets each week could get heavier under a plan to expand the bottle redemption program included in Gov. David A. Paterson's 2009-10 budget proposal. 
 The proposal to expand the state Bottle Bill, which since 1982 has required a 5-cent refundable deposit on beer and soda cans and bottles, would require vendors to also charge a 5-cent deposit on the three billion bottles and cans of water, sports drinks, iced teas and juices that New Yorkers consume each year. Dairy products, infant formulas, wine and gallon-sized containers would be exempt.
 Mr. Paterson's proposal also calls for beverage distributors to transfer the millions of dollars in unredeemed deposits to the state's Environmental Protection Fund rather than keep them, as they do now. Similar bills passed the Assembly in recent years but were not heard in the Senate. But Mr. Paterson's proposal is one of many things being considered in his budget plan, providing more incentive for it to be passed, said Assemblyman Robert K. Sweeney, a Babylon Democrat who heads the Assembly's Environmental Conservation Committee.
 Supporters hail the proposed changes as a way to improve recycling rates while adding to state coffers. But opponents, including beverage manufacturers and distributors and large retail chains, say the proposal places an undue and expensive burden on their industries to collect, refund and recycle bottles and cans.
 The proposal would mean about $118 million next year for the Environmental Protection Fund, up from $93 million, according to state estimates. (The Container Recycling Institute, which calculates the figures another way, says the amount would jump to $218 million from $144 million.) 
 The Environmental Protection Fund pays for programs like land acquisitions and waterfront revitalizations and finances zoos and farmland protection.
 The proposal would have far-reaching environmental benefits, as people are apt to recycle bottles when there is money attached and, under the current law, nonredeemable bottles make up a disproportionately large percentage of litter found in parks, streets and riverbanks, said Pete Grannis, commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Conservation. 
 Since the bottle law took effect 27 years ago, more than 70 percent of beer and soda containers -- 90 billion bottles and cans -- have been recycled, he said. (Only about 38 percent of cans and bottles are recycled in states without bottle bills, said Judith Enck, Mr. Paterson's deputy secretary for the environment.) 
 ''It really does provide an incentive for recycling, and I do believe it's pretty clear that the original bill didn't contemplate the drinking habits of today's world,'' said Assemblyman Adam Bradley, a Democrat from White Plains. ''Everybody drank soda.''
 County officials say the governor's proposal also promotes their environmental agenda. Susan Tolchin, the deputy county executive, said that while the proposal's impact on recycling in the county is uncertain, the benefits of reducing waste and sending much-needed money to the state are clear.
 But opponents said that the measure would cost consumers more and could have ramifications for Westchester beyond the potential for increasing the price of bottled drinks. The bottle bill proposal, along with Mr. Paterson's proposed 18 percent tax on nondiet sodas, has the Pepsi Bottling Group considering moving its headquarters from Somers to Connecticut, taking more than 1,000 jobs with it.
 ''Essentially what we've created is a tax,'' said Jonathan M. Pierce, a spokesman for Real Recycling Reform, which opposes the bill. The group includes representatives of Snapple, which is headquartered in White Plains; the Food Industry Alliance of New York State, which represents the grocery industry; the New York State Restaurant Association; and distributors who work for Heineken USA, based in White Plains.
 Mr. Pierce said that the money kept by distributors is used to finance the deposit, redemption and recycling program to begin with and that beverages would ultimately cost more, possibly as much as 15 cents per bottle, if the proposal became law.
 Although consumers would still be able to get back 5 cents a bottle, the rest would be needed to meet the increased cost of operating a broader bottle-redemption program, Mr. Pierce said.
 ''It's going to increase the cost of doing business in New York,'' he said, ''and it's going to increase the cost of a trip to the grocery store.''
 SUPPORTERS dispute that contention, saying the only legitimate cost increase associated with the proposal would be 1.5 cents per bottle -- the handling fee distributors must pay retailers to collect, refund and recycle the bottles would increase to 3.5 cents from 2 cents.
 ''That's totally at the whim of the companies,'' Ms. Enck said. ''There is no way it's going to cost 10 cents a bottle to handle this.''
 As the program works now, distributors charge the 5-cent deposit per can or bottle to stores, which then charge consumers that amount. Consumers can take empty bottles and cans back to the store in exchange for the refund.
 Stores get their deposits, plus the 2-cent-a-container handling fee, when they return the bottles and cans either to the distributor or to a private company, which many large supermarkets use.
 In addition to unclaimed deposits, distributors also get to keep money earned from selling bottles and cans to recycling companies, which often prefer material collected from redemption systems over curbside pickup because it tends to be mixed with fewer nonrecyclables.
 Retailers say there are hidden costs in the return system, like setting aside space for redemption machines, sanitation costs and paying staff to keep that space maintained and lighted. 
 Not all business leaders agree that the proposed changes would cost them.
 Peter Sobol, legislative liaison for the Empire State Beer Distributors Association, said the neighborhood beer and soda stores that his group represents support Governor Paterson's proposal as long as the handling fee stores receive is increased to meet costs. He called it unconscionable for distributors to keep unredeemed deposits when the economy is in shambles.
 ''Not many are sharing in that pot,'' Mr. Sobol said. ''At a time when everything is being cut back -- health care, education -- for the state not to grab these unredeemed nickels just doesn't make sense.''
 Ms. Salko, the Larchmont teacher and recycler, said she firmly believed that attaching money to recycling made it more attractive, particularly for children like her son, Michael, 14, who takes a recyclable water bottle to school daily.
 Mr. Pierce said he does not buy that argument, saying the state is more interested in recouping money from unredeemed deposits than promoting environmental responsibility. If more and more people recycle, he said, there will be little money left for the state to claim.
 Ms. Enck, however, said losing cash to high recycling rates is the least of her worries.
 ''We would love to have that problem,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GIVING BACK: The state wants to expand the Bottle Bill program to include bottles for beverages other than beer and soda.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 CRUSHED: Bales of plastic bottles are processed at the Daniel P. Thomas Material Recovery Facility in Yonkers, left, after the bottles are recovered from machines like those at grocery stores, below.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); SOFT DRINK WHOLESALERS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); BEVERAGE MFG (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); SPORTS DRINKS (73%); BEER & ALE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



360 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2928 words

HEADLINE: Pulling Art Sales Out of Thinning Air

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL; Barclay Walsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
AT an opening at his Madison Avenue gallery a few weeks ago, Larry Gagosian wore a dark suit with a window-pane pattern and a look on his face that said, ''Don't ask.'' 
 He stood near the reception desk, beside several of the many gallerinas he employs, as a few hundred people milled around a collection of new photographs by Alec Soth and a cache of paintings by Andy Warhol that he bought last year, reportedly for $200 million. In an art market that has recently gone Code Xanax, neither he nor his gallery radiated any hints of distress -- though hints of distress have never been the Gagosian style.
 Since opening a schlocky poster shop in Los Angeles in the early 1970s, Mr. Gagosian, 63, has built a contemporary and modern art empire unlike any other the business has ever seen, with galleries in New York, Los Angeles, London and Rome. His stable of talent -- nearly all of them poached from rivals -- includes seven- and eight-figure luminaries like Richard Prince, Jeff Koons and Damien Hirst. And the profits from primary-market sales are dwarfed by the riches that Mr. Gagosian has earned by helping the superrich quietly sell masterpieces to one another. 
 Dogged, unreadable and enamored with risk, he has long held some of the best hands in the vast Texas hold 'em game that is the art market. But that was before Dow 6,600, before virtually everything with a price tag went on sale. Auction houses have begun to report sales that are less than half their level a year ago. In November 2007, the Christie's evening sale of postwar contemporary art in New York totaled nearly $325 million; in 2008, the same sale brought in just $113 million. A share of Sotheby's stock, which peaked above $50 in late 2007, now trades in the $6 range.
 Everyone is vulnerable. Especially Larry Gagosian.
 His business is the ultimate black-box operation, a never-ending and international swirl of cash and canvas that is built for maximum secrecy. What is certain is that his overhead is a multiple of his competitors'. Also certain is that the prices of work by the young artists he has been luring into his galleries -- prices that have doubled or tripled in some cases, courtesy of his imprimatur -- are falling like bank stocks. Worst of all, the days of the $75 million private deal have ground to a halt.
 Small stuff is going wrong, too. A recent deal that Gagosian Gallery had struck to buy $3 million in gold bricks for a show by the artist Chris Burden was frozen when it turned out that the bricks had been acquired from a company owned by Allen Stanford, who stands accused of a vast fraud. 
 Mr. Gagosian has ''a well-fortified ship, but he's up against the perfect storm,'' says Ed Ruscha, a major artist in Mr. Gagosian's roster and a longtime friend. ''Everyone is on red alert there.''
 But Mr. Gagosian, who wouldn't return calls for this article, is nothing if not a master of financial brinkmanship, and he has survived numerous death-watch experiences over the years. And there are, it turns out, curators and advisers who believe that he will fare just fine in the coming years, as legions of vaguely embarrassed collectors look to raise needed money, as privately as possible.
 Even so, Mr. Gagosian is quietly bracing for the worst. A few months ago, he sent an e-mail ultimatum to staff members that was quickly a blog sensation, threatening to fire anyone who wasn't moving the product. ''The luxury of carrying under-performing employees,'' he wrote, ''is now a thing of the past.''
 But to use an analogy that this poker player would understand, Mr. Gagosian is all in. He showed up at the Yves Saint Laurent auction in Paris last month, accompanying the Russian billionaire Roman A. Abramovich. Mr. Gagosian is still on the cocktail circuit, and he's still hosting parties in his town house on the Upper East Side, which has a lap pool and lots of sleek furniture. The gatherings -- a mix of millionaires, celebrities and art stars -- are carefully engineered marketing opportunities, though they don't seem that way to attendees.
 ''It probably has to do with business, but it doesn't feel like business,'' says Steve Martin, the actor and a collector who has been to events at Mr. Gagosian's home. ''He's a great host, smiles when he greets you, serves great food. There's interesting people, writers, a couple Wall Street people, artists. And when you go there for a party for an artist, it feels like a party for that artist, rather than a sales tool.''
 In the midst of the scariest art downturn in more than a decade, Mr. Gagosian is sticking with his Hermes suits and jetting around on a private plane. Sporting a helmet of silvery hair and looking like a cross between an aging bon vivant and a secret agent, he still radiates total confidence -- which, these days, not everyone is buying. No dealer rode the art to the same thin-air heights as Mr. Gagosian. Which might mean he has the farthest to fall.
 IT takes a lot of calls to find people to talk about Larry Gagosian. Part of the problem is that nobody sees much margin in candidly assessing a man who wields the power that he does, and part of it is the art world's premium on discretion.
 Friends of his ask to go off the record only so they can pay banal compliments like ''I really like him.'' One former employee turned gallery owner just hung up at the mention of his name. A woman who remembered him from high school in Van Nuys, Calif., and who had since seen him at gallery events, said, ''He was as mysterious then as he is today,'' quickly adding, ''But if you use my name you'll be in trouble with me.''
 The most elusive interview of all is Mr. Gagosian himself, who has not spoken to anyone profiling him for about a decade. 
 There are certainly plenty of topics that might make Mr. Gagosian hesitant to step in front of a reporter's microphone. Like the $4 million settlement he paid after federal prosecutors accused him and three partners in 2003 of failing to pay taxes on the sale of 58 works of art. There are also a lot of tales from former employees of almost comically cold-blooded behavior. One former underling says he once told told Mr. Gagosian that a deal to commission a Richard Serra sculpture for a couple had been called off because the wife had developed cancer. 
 ''All your clients are dead or dying,'' Mr. Gagosian huffed, and then hung up, according to this person.
 Cultivating some Oz-like mystique also seems like part of Mr. Gagosian's purposefully opaque persona. But his media-wariness could stem from his belief that he doesn't owe anyone explanations. He has created a business without shareholders, partners or even an heir apparent. He has arranged his life so that he can ignore anyone he'd like to ignore. When outlandish-sounding rumors about him are rampant, he seems to get a kick out of letting them run unchecked.
 ''I've heard every one in the book,'' says David Zwirner, a dealer. '' 'The Feds are there. He owes $200 million. He's going to be shut down. He's going to be shot by Russian mobsters.' Sometimes I think Larry himself comes up with these rumors because he likes people to talk about him.''
 Mr. Gagosian seems to inspire chatter in the gallery world for the same reason a magician inspires whispers: nobody quite knows how he does it. The current show at his Chelsea Gallery on West 24th Street in Manhattan, for instance, is a retrospective of the Italian artist Piero Manzoni, which the New York Times critic Holland Cotter called ''an amazement.''
 Walk around Chelsea long enough and you can't help but conclude that Mr. Gagosian is somehow playing chess to the rest of the gallery world's checkers. His peers in the business tend to stare with a mix of amazement and skepticism. It's telling that he is not a member of the Art Dealers Association of America, an invitation-only group. The president of the organization, Roland Augustine, declined to say why.
 Mr. Zwirner says: ''I thought about sponsoring him a while ago. But everyone would assume I was nuts.''
 LARRY GAGOSIAN wasn't the first dealer to realize that art was a commodity, and that for the right price anyone would part with anything. But he brought a brazenness to this once-genteel realm that left rivals speechless. With a Rolodex filled with hedge fund investors, Russian oligarchs and real estate magnates, he would pitch paintings that weren't even for sale, knowing that if the offer were large enough, the owner would thank him.
 ''Larry made it a business deal and business guys were more comfortable with that,'' said Maurice Tuchman, an art consultant and former chairman of modern art at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. ''It was like they were buying a building, or shares of I.B.M. No rigmarole.''
 No mercy, either. Harvey S. Shipley Miller still chuckles about the day a few years ago when he called Mr. Gagosian to buy a Cy Twombly drawing for a collection of works on paper for the Judith Rothschild Foundation. Mr. Miller explained that other dealers had been flexible on price -- the pieces were being acquired by a charity, after all, and ultimately would be part of a collection in the Museum of Modern Art in New York. ''He wouldn't budge,'' Mr. Miller recalls. ''So I said, 'How about $100,000 off?'''
 No, Mr. Gagosian replied.
 ''How about $25,000 off?''
 ''Nope, I can't do it.''
 ''O.K., Larry,'' Mr. Miller said, exasperated. ''How about $1? Can you give us a dollar off?''
 Well, no.
 ''I tell you what, though,'' Mr. Gagosian answered. ''I'll buy you lunch.''
 ''I said, 'No thanks; I'm on a diet,' '' Mr. Miller recalls, still savoring the absurdity of the moment. ''I mean, what is that about? Obviously, buying me lunch will cost him more than a dollar!''
 To understand Mr. Gagosian's success you need to understand that the postwar art world is basically a stock market with a couple of thousand really valuable shares. Few people have any idea where those shares are located, because they're hanging in the homes and sitting in the warehouses of collectors, who, for obvious security reasons, tend to keep their holdings well-guarded secrets.
 If you want to spend $30 million on a de Kooning, you can check what's in the catalogs of the coming Sotheby's and Christie's sales. But if you don't find what you want, you'll probably call Mr. Gagosian. One of his talents is simply ingratiating himself with the richest collectors in the world, which gives him access to their homes, which allows him to take note of what great works are where. By all accounts he has an excellent memory, but his secret weapon, if it can be called that, is the lowly camera, which he's been known to use on the Q.T.
 ''I was in Larry's office once and I saw Polaroids of pieces that were in my home,'' says Douglas Cramer, a former television executive and longtime collector. Mr. Cramer was startled, then amused, and surmises that Mr. Gagosian took the photos while Mr. Cramer was answering the phone or in the bathroom: ''What do you say to someone who at that point is a good friend, who is getting you all this great art?'' 
 Mr. Gagosian has sold dozens of paintings, acquaintances say, with photographs, transparencies or pages ripped from magazines. And if you tell him what you want, there's a good chance he'll know where it is, and a decent chance he'll know how much money it will take to pry it from the wall of its owner.
 ''I remember 15 years ago telling him that I wanted a Susan Rothenberg horse,'' says Eli Broad, a real estate magnate and major collector. ''There's only about a dozen, I think. And he called this art dealer in St. Louis, who had one on his dining room wall. It wasn't for sale.''
 Until it was. Mr. Broad recalls acquiring it for $300,000. 
 In many instances, Mr. Gagosian is effecting trades in which none of the parties know the identity of anyone else. Collectors say they typically receive calls from him saying something like, ''If you want that Francis Bacon, you need to give me your Lichtenstein and the two Basquiats.'' Who is on the other side of that trade, or whether the Bacon came from Mr. Gagosian's private stash, is never discussed. 
 His database, Mr. Cramer says, ''is a Fort Knox of information.''
 Mr. Gagosian, in short, is a one-man Nasdaq, an exchange where he helps set the price, not to mention the size of his commission. Unlike an actual stock exchange, though, this one is always open for business, and when it doesn't get expected trades, it gets loud and profane. Mr. Gagosian has been known to pepper art consultants contemplating the terms of a deal with 20 calls in a single day, and if the answer isn't the one he wants, you're advised to keep the children away from the phone.
 ''He's something of a genius,'' says Peter Schjeldahl, art critic of The New Yorker who has attended many of Mr. Gagosian's shows. ''We think of genius as being complicated. But geniuses have the fewest moving parts.'' He added: ''Gagosian is simple. He's basically a shark, a feeding machine.''
 If true, he is a feeding machine with no ''off'' switch. Mr. Gagosian has collapsed his private and professional life into one seamless whole, acquaintances say. One art adviser, who says he likes Mr. Gagosian, believes that the day after he stops representing deep-pocketed clients is the day Mr. Gagosian ceases to acknowledge him on the street. 
 A former girlfriend, Nicollette Ramirez, says that their vacation destinations were selected based on where collectors were headed, and where business could be done. Only rarely, during their three years of dating, did she catch a glimpse of the person underneath the deal maker.
 ''Even with the people closest to him, like a lover, there's always a barrier, a facade, which is not ever really down,'' says Ms. Ramirez, who is still in touch with Mr. Gagosian, ''because he has no time to indulge in the things that happen t0 most human beings, like falling in love, marriage. Those are not his priorities.''
 MANY people at the top of the art business started with loads of family money or well-connected parents. Mr. Gagosian had neither. He grew up in modest circumstances, with a father who was an accountant -- an ornery, unaffectionate man who drank too much, as Ms. Ramirez recalls Mr. Gagosian describing him to her. Mr. Gagosian's mother was an actress who became a homemaker.
 He was an English major at U.C.L.A. and married while still a student, in a five-minute ceremony in Las Vegas, to a woman named Gwyn Ellen Garside. They were separated after 16 days; Mr. Gagosian would never marry again and never had children. 
 He worked briefly in an entry-level job at the William Morris Agency before decamping to sell posters on the sidewalk near the U.C.L.A. campus -- gauzy images in the kittens-with-yarn vein. He later upgraded to prints by artists like Diane Arbus and Lee Friedlander, and by 1980, he was showing Sol LeWitt sculptures and work by Richard Serra, Jean-Michel Basquiat and David Salle. Mr. Schjeldahl, the art critic, attended the Salle show and found an ''aftershave-ad-handsome'' owner who said he was giving the art business two years to prove itself. Then he'd try real estate. 
 Mr. Gagosian never bothered to hide his interest in making scads of money, but he quickly developed a refined eye for great art and how to showcase it. He opened a gallery in Chelsea, one of the first in that neighborhood, in 1985, and scored some high-profile triumphs that put him on the Manhattan art map. Those include a cold call to the Connecticut home of Emily and Burton Tremaine, owners of ''Victory Boogie-Woogie,'' by Piet Mondrian, which was sold to Si Newhouse for $12 million.
 Mr. Gagosian also befriended and later co-owned a gallery with the courtly Leo Castelli, the embodiment of the old-school dealer. For years, Mr. Gagosian has shown up at auctions around the world, often to place record-setting bids, usually on behalf of collectors who want anonymity or who are allowing him to burnish his brand.
 ''It's an accommodation,'' Mr. Broad says of the occasions when he lets Mr. Gagosian wave a paddle on his behalf. ''He loves to see his name in The New York Times.'' 
 MR. GAGOSIAN'S best hope for the future may be the swelling ranks of the newly cash-tight wealthy. As the recession erodes more of their wealth, they might sell privately through him, either because they don't want anyone to know they need the money or because they think he can fetch a higher price than the auction houses, which in slow markets have trouble creating the jump-ball excitement that sellers love.
 But it's not a market he will have to himself, because Sotheby's and Christie's do private sales as well and are in far more niches. 
 Were Mr. Gagosian to actually flame out, many in the business would quietly exult. But that would be a mistake, says Stefania Bortolami, a gallery owner. 
 Ms. Bortolami isn't alone in believing that Mr. Gagosian has achieved the contemporary art market's version of too big to fail, though for reasons that have nothing to do with toxic assets. The glamour and networking energy that he has brought to the business added a zero to the price of just about everything, Ms. Bortolami says. If his business were to fold, the new buyers he brought to the market, as well as a lot of added, buzz-laden value, would disappear along with him.
 Ed Ruscha says he won't let that happen. ''If it springs a leak,'' he says of the Good Ship Gagosian, ''I will roll up one of my paintings and plug the hole. As long as Cy Twombly does the same.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Larry Gagosian, right, and his gallery in Beverly Hills held a reception for the opening of an exhibit of paintings by Julian Schnabel, left, the artist and film director, in February 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES)
 The Gagosian Gallery in Rome, one among a network that stretches to New York and beyond.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO DI LAURO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHARLIE POWELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); POKER (64%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (92%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



361 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TRANSCRIPT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4479 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Interview Aboard Air Force One

 BODY:
President Obama spoke in a 35-minute interview aboard Air Force One on Friday afternoon as he traveled from Columbus, Ohio to Andrews Air Force Base. This is an edited transcript, as recorded by The New York Times. 
 Q.You said it's going to take a long time to get out of this economic crisis. Can you assure the American people that the economy will be growing by the summer, the fall or the end of the year? 
 A. I don't think that anybody has that kind of crystal ball. We are going through a wrenching process of de-leveraging in the financial sectors not just here in the United States, but all around the world that have profound consequences for Main Street. What started off as problems with the banks, led to a contraction of lending, which led in turn to both declining demand on the part of consumers, but also declining demand on the part of business. So it is going to take some time to work itself through. 
 Our job is to do a couple of key things. Number one, to put in place key investments that will cushion the blow. Our recovery plan had provisions for unemployment insurance, for food stamps, what we just saw today, grants and assistance to states so layoffs aren't compounded. The second thing we've got to do is we're going to have to strengthen the financial system. We've taken some significant steps already to do that just for example this week, opening up a trillion-dollar credit line. But there's going to be more work to be done there because there are some banks that are still limping along and we've got to strengthen their capital bases and get them lending again. 
 We've got to be able to distinguish in the marketplace between those banks that have real problems and those banks that are actually on pretty solid footing. We've still got the auto situation that we're going to have to address. And finally, we've got to make the investments for long-term economic growth around energy, education and health care. I'm not trying to filibuster, it was a big question. 
 Our belief and expectation is that we will get all the pillars in place for recovery this year. Those are the things we have control over and we have confidence that working with Congress we can get the pillars of recovery in place. How long it will take before recovery actually translates into stronger job markets and so forth is going to depend on a whole range of factors, including our ability to get other countries to coordinate and take similar actions because part of what you're seeing now is weaknesses in Europe that are actually greater than some of the weaknesses here, bouncing back and having an impact on our markets.
 Q.Can you envision allowing a major institution to fail? Can you say with certainty that you won't need to ask Congress for any more money beyond the $250 billion placeholder in your budget. 
 A. I am absolutely committed to making sure that our financial system is stable. And so I think people can be assured that we'll do whatever is required to keep that from happening. For example, that would mean preventing institutions that could cause systemic risks to the system being just left on their own. We're going to make sure that the financial system is stabilized and in terms of the resources that are involved. We think the $250 billion placeholder is a pretty good estimate. We have no reason to revise that estimate that's in the budget. One of the benefits I think of this budget was we tried to surface as honestly and as forthrightly as possible, all the costs of this crisis, all the costs of the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, all the potential costs of things like fixing the AMT, which historically have been left off the budget. Something that I don't think people recognize is that had we used the same gimmicks that had been used previously, we could have driven down our budget projections over the next 10 years, down to point where debt was only 1.3 or 1.5 percent of G.D.P. We could have made ourselves look really good, but I felt very strongly that part of what got us in trouble in the first place, both in the private sector and the public sector, was a failure to do honest accounting about what risks are out there, about what costs are out there and factoring those in, and that's something that we've tried to change. 
 Q.Have you figured out how you would draw the lines against endless rescues?
 A. Part of the function of the stress test that is being conducted by Treasury right now is to make a determination using some worst-case scenario what that would mean for a bank's balance sheet. And I think that what you should see emerging there is an awful lot of banks that are in decent shape considering the circumstances. They've been managed well. They didn't take undue risks. Obviously, they're being hit like every business is being hit by the recession, but they can recover, and if they do need help, it's going to be short-term help. There may be a handful of institutions that have more serious problems. And what we want to do is to cauterize the wound. 
 Q. And they'll have to fail, the ones that had more serious problems?
 A. No, no, no, no. But what we'll have to do is, we'll probably have to take more significant action to deal with those institutions. 
 But the point is that our commitment is to make sure that any actions we take to maintain stability in the system, begin to loosen up credit and lending once again so that businesses and consumers can borrow. And if they can, then you're going to start seeing businesses invest once again and you're going to see people hired once again, but it's going to take some time. 
 Q.The first six weeks have given people a glimpse of your spending priorities. Are you a socialist as some people have suggested?
 A. You know, let's take a look at the budget the answer would be no. 
 Q. Is there anything wrong with saying yes?
 A. Let's just take a look at what we've done. We've essentially said that, number one, we're going to reduce non-defense discretionary spending to the lowest levels in decades. So that part of the budget that doesn't include entitlements and doesn't include defense that we have the most control over we're actually setting on a downward trajectory in terms of percentage of G.D.P. So we're making more tough choices in terms of eliminating programs and cutting back on spending than any administration has done in a very long time. We're making some very tough choices. 
 What we have done is in a couple of critical areas that we have put off action for a very long time, decided that now is the time to ask. One is on health care. As you heard in the health care summit yesterday, there is uniform belief that the status quo is broken and if we don't do anything, we will be in a much worse place, both fiscally as well as in terms of what's happening to families and businesses than if we did something. 
 The second area is on energy, which we've been talking about for decades. Now, in each of those cases, what we've said is, on our watch, we're going to solve problems that have weakened this economy for a generation. And it's going to be hard and it's going to require some costs. But if you look on the revenue side what we're proposing, what we're looking at is essentially to go back to the tax rates that existed during the 1990s when, as I recall, rich people were doing very well. In fact everybody was doing very well. We have proposed a cap and trade system, which could create some additional costs, but the vast majority of that we want to give back in the form of tax breaks to the 95 percent of working families. 
 So if you look at our budget, what you have is a very disciplined, fiscally responsible budget, along with an effort to deal with some very serious problems that have been put off for a very long time. And that I think is exactly what I proposed during the campaign. We are following through on every commitment that we've made, and that's what I think is ultimately going to get our economy back on track. 
 Q.So to people who suggested that you are more liberal than you suggested on the campaign, you say, what? 
 A. I think it would be hard to argue, Jeff. We have delivered on every promise that we've made so far. We said that we would end the war in Iraq and we've put forward a responsible plan. 
 Q.In terms of spending. 
 A. Oh, in terms of spending. Well, if you look at spending, what we said during the campaign was, is that we were going to raise taxes on the top five percent. That's what our budget does. We said that we'd give a tax cut to 95 percent of working Americans. That's exactly what we have done. That's the right thing to do. It provides relief to families that basically saw no growth in wages and incomes over the last decade. It asks for a little bit more for people like myself who benefited greatly over the last decade and took a disproportionate share of a growing economy. I actually don't think that anybody who examines our budget can come away with the conclusion that somehow this is a that this is in any way different than what we proposed during the campaign. 
 But more to the point, it is what's needed in order to put this economy on a more stable footing. One of the problems that we've had is that we have put off big problems again and again and again and again. And as I've said in my speech to the joint session of Congress, at some point there is a day of reckoning. Well, that day of reckoning has come. 
 What I'm refusing to do and what I've instructed my staff that we will not do is to try to kick the can down the road, to try to paper over problems, try to use gimmicks on budgets, try to pretend that health care is not an issue, to continue with a situation where we are exporting importing more and more oil from the middle east, continuing with a situation in which average working families are seeing their wages flat line. At some point, we've got to take on these problems. 
 Q.Is there one word name for your philosophy? If you're not a socialist, are you a liberal? Are you progressive? One word?
 A. No, I'm not going to engage in that. 
 Q. Mr. President, we need to turn it to foreign policy. I know we have a review going on right now about Afghanistan policy, but right now can you tell us, are we winning in Afghanistan? 
 A. No. I think that we are we are doing an extraordinary job, or let me say it this way: Our troops are doing an extraordinary job in a very difficult situation. But you've seen conditions deteriorate over the last couple of years. The Taliban is bolder than it was. I think the in the southern regions of the country, you're seeing them attack in ways that we have not seen previously. The national government still has not gained the confidence of the Afghan people. And so its going to be critical for us to not only, get through these national elections to stabilize the security situation, but we've got to recast our policy so that our military, diplomatic and development goals are all aligned to ensure that al Qaeda and extremists that would do us harm don't have the kinds of safe havens that allow them to operate. 
 At the heart of a new Afghanistan policy is going to be a smarter Pakistan policy. As long as you've got safe havens in these border regions that the Pakistani government can't control or reach, in effective ways, we're going to continue to see vulnerability on the afghan side of the border. And so it's very important for us to reach out to the Pakistani government, and work with them more effectively. 
 Q.Do you see a time when you might be willing to reach out to more moderate elements of the Taliban, to try to peel them away, towards reconciliation? 
 A. I don't want to pre-judge the review that's currently taking place. If you talk to General Petraeus, I think he would argue that part of the success in Iraq involved reaching out to people that we would consider to be Islamic fundamentalists, but who were willing to work with us because they had been completely alienated by the tactics of Al Qaeda in Iraq. 
 There may be some comparable opportunities in Afghanistan and the Pakistani region. But the situation in Afghanistan is, if anything, more complex. You have a less governed region, a history of fierce independence among tribes. Those tribes are multiple and sometimes operate at cross purposes, so figuring all that out is going to be a much more of a challenge. 
 Q.In a post-9/11 world, when it comes to employing American power in that world, including at home and abroad, and the balance between securities and civil liberties, what do you think now that you've been in office, that President Bush, if anything, got right, in figuring out that balance? 
 A. I think that I would distinguish between some of the steps that were taken immediately after 9/11 and where we were by the time I took office. I think the C.I.A., for example, and some of the controversial programs that have been a focus of a lot of attention, took steps to correct certain policies and procedures after those first couple of years. I think that Admiral Hayden and Mike McConnell at D.N.I. were capable public servants who really had America's security interests in mind when they acted, and I think were mindful of American values and ideals. 
 Q. Are we closer to that balance right now?
 A. I think we've still got work to do in dealing with those initial steps. Guantanamo being Exhibit A. As a consequence of a series of early decisions, we now have people in Guantanamo who have not been tried, have not had an opportunity to answer charges, many of whom are dangerous, some of whom are very difficult to try, will be some of whom will be difficult to try because of the manner in which evidence was obtained. 
 So there's a clean-up operation that has to take place, and that's complicated. As I said when I announced my decision to close Guantanamo, for us to have tried to have done that in less than a year would have been completely unrealistic. And even doing it within a year is requiring an enormous amount of attention and focus on the part of our ...
 Q. Is it within the realm of possibility that some of these Guantanamo detainees might have actually been released into the United States, the Uighurs, or somebody like that? 
 A. I don't want to, again, prejudge the reviews. We are being very deliberate, very careful to make sure that we get this right. There are still going to be some balancing there is still going to be some balancing that has to be done and some competing interests that are going to have to be addressed. But what I'm confident about is moving forward we can create a national security operation and set of procedures that keep us safe and secure and are also true to our traditions. That I'm increasingly confident of. 
 Q.Leon Panetta has said that we're going to continue renditions, provided we're not sending people to countries that torture. Why continue them at all? 
 A. Well, I think that you're giving a slightly more definitive response than Director Panetta provided, but what I'll say is this: We are now conducting a review of the rendition policy, there could be situations, and I emphasize could be because we haven't made a determination yet, where let's say we have a well-known Al Qaeda operative, that doesn't surface very often, appears in a third country, with whom we don't have an extradition relationship, or would not be willing to prosecute him, but we think is a very dangerous person. I think we will have to think about how do we deal with that scenario in a way that comports with international law and abides by my very clear edict that we don't torture, and that we ultimately provide anybody that we're detaining an opportunity through habeas corpus. to answer to charges. 
 How all that sorts itself out is extremely complicated because it's not just domestic law its also international law, our relationship with various other entities. And so, again, it will take this year to be able to get all of these procedures in place and on the right footing. 
 Q:Turning to other matters, when it comes to race relations, do you agree that we're a nation of cowards? 
 A: I think it's fair to say that if I had been advising my attorney general, we would have used different language. I think the point that he was making is that we're oftentimes uncomfortable with talking about race until there's some sort of racial flare-up or conflict, and that we could probably be more constructive in facing up to the painful legacy of slavery and Jim Crow and discrimination. 
 But what I would add to that is the fact that we've made enormous progress and we shouldn't lose sight of that. And I'm not somebody who believes that constantly talking about race somehow solves racial tensions. I think what solves racial tensions is fixing the economy, putting people to work, making sure that people have heath care, ensuring that every kid is learning out here. I think if we do that, then we'll probably have more fruitful conversations. 
 Q: Speaking of the economy, what advice would you give ordinary Americans who are struggling through these times? You've asked people for their patience. What should people do now? 
 A: Well, obviously, you've got 300 million Americans so I don't think you can generalize across the board. I think that people would feel confident that every time we've had an economic challenge like the one that we're having although this is one of the bigger ones that we've gotten through it, that the pillars of recovery will be in place this year. 
 Q: What should the unemployed in particular ...
 A: Well, hold on a second. There are still groceries to be bought and kids to send to school and cars in need of repair and young families that need to find homes. And so what I would say to people is, obviously, be prudent. I think that ordinary families should have learned from the last few years and recent history that if something sounds too good to be true whether it's stock market returns or appreciating housing prices that sometimes they are too good to be true, and that what we should be looking for is steady growth, steady accumulations of savings, steady and prudent investing. And that I think is what you're going to see emerging after we've gotten through the worst of this crisis. 
 What I don't think people should do is suddenly stuff money in their mattresses and pull back completely from spending. I don't think that people should be fearful about our future. I don't think that people should suddenly mistrust all of our financial institutions because the overwhelming majority of them actually have managed things reasonably well. But I think that coming out of this crisis what you're going to see is, you know, a return to the fundamentals hard work, investing for reasonable returns over time, saving steadily for your kids' college education and for your retirement. All of us, thinking about our purchases and making sure that we're taking care of the necessities before we go after the luxuries. And I think that's true not only for individual families but I think that's going to be true for government as well. And if we take those steps, if we return to the fundamentals, if we go back to that ad that used to run, where they say, you know, 'we earn money the old fashioned way' -- or what is it? 
 (Cross talk) 
 A: 'We make money the old fashioned way, we earn it.' If we go back to that philosophy and we finally tackle some problems we've been putting off, like health care, like energy, like education, then I think we're going to come out of this stronger. 
 Q:Sir, we're landing here, but what are you reading these days? What kind of newspapers do you read, do you read the clips, do you read actual papers, do you watch television? 
 A: Other than The New York Times? 
 Q:Other than The New York Times. Do you read Web sites? What Web sites do you look at? 
 A: I read most of the big national papers. 
 Q.Do you read them in clips or do you read them in the paper?
 A. No, I read the paper. I like the feel of a newspaper. I read most of the weekly newsmagazines. I may not read them from cover to cover but I'll thumb through them. You know, I spend most of my time these days reading a lot of briefings. 
 Q:And television? Do you watch? Web sites? 
 A: I don't watch much television, I confess. 
 Q:And Web sites? 
 Q:No blogs? 
 A: I rarely read blogs. 
 Q: No reality shows with your girls? 
 A: No. They watch them, but I don't join them. I watch basketball. That's what I watch. 
 Q: Have you gotten a new appreciation at all, or maybe a little sympathy for what your predecessors went through in terms of a president can't control all the events? 
 A: Oh, absolutely. Look, I actually appreciated that before I took office. I always felt that a president is accountable for making the best decisions, but that there are going to be a lot of unexpected twists and turns along the way. And as I said recently, this is still a human enterprise and these are big, tough, complicated problems. Somebody noted to me that by the time something reaches my desk, that means it's really hard. Because if it were easy, somebody else would have made the decision and somebody else would have solved it. So typically, if something's in my folder, it means that you've got some very big, difficult, sticky, contradictory issues to be wrestled with. 
 Q:Has anybody said to you, No, sir, you can't do that? Has there been a moment in these last six weeks where you tried to do something and somebody said, Sorry, sir, it doesn't work that way? 
 A: Well, I mean, I think what we were talking about earlier in terms of Guantanamo. People didn't have to tell me, No you can't do that. It was simply, Well, sir, here are the challenges that we face in terms of making a decision about that. In the entire banking sector we spend every day, myself, Rahm Emanuel, Tim Geithner, Larry Summers, Christina Romer, every single day, we will spend at least an hour of my time just talking through how we are approaching the financial markets. 
 And part of the reason we don't spend a lot of time looking at blogs is because if you haven't looked at it very carefully then you may be under the impression that somehow there's a clean answer one way or another well, you just nationalize all the banks, or you just leave them alone and they'll be fine, or this or that or the other. The truth is this is a very complex set of problems and bad decisions can result in huge taxpayer expenditures and poor results. 
 And so what I expect from my team is to constantly be guided by evidence, facts, talking through all the best arguments, drawing from all the best perspectives, and then talking the best course of action possible given the fact that there are some big uncertainties and that sometimes what people may want may actually be contradictory. So, for example, lately, people have been concerned understandably about the decline in the market. Well, the reason the market's declining is because the economy's declining and it's generating a lot of bad news, not surprisingly. And so what I'm focused on is fixing the underlying economy. That's ultimately what's going to fix the markets, but in the interim you've got some folks who would love to see us artificially prop up the market by just putting in more taxpayer money which in the short term could make bank balance sheets look better, you know, make creditors and bondholders and shareholders of these financial institutions feel better and you could get a little blip. But we'd be in the exact same spot as we were six, eight, 10 months from now. So what I've got to do is make sure that we're focused on the underlying economy and if we do that right, if we do that well, and I'm confident that we will, then after some very tough times, and after a lot of hardship on the part of some of the people that I hear from every day who've lost their jobs or don't have health insurance or what have you, that we're going to get this economy moving again. And I think over the long term we're going to be much better off. 
 Q. Are you sleeping sir or is it hard to sleep?
 A. Ohhhhh, I always sleep because when I'm not sleeping I'm working. 
 Q. You never feel burdened by it, though? You've come into there are so many problems that the country faces. Do you feel the weight of that now as president?
 A. As I said feel as if I've got a great team and we are making the best decisions under the circumstances. Do I wish that I had the luxury of maybe dealing with one monumental problem at a time during the course of the year? Of course and in fact, you know, you've been hearing sort of our opposition lately saying, 'Well, he's trying to do this and that and the other, and he shouldn't 'Look, I wish I had the luxury of just dealing with a modest recession or just dealing with health care or just dealing with energy or just dealing with Iraq or just dealing with Afghanistan. I don't have that luxury and I don't think the American people do either. We've got to use this moment to solve some big problems once and for all so that the next generation is not saddled with even worse problems than we have right now. All right? Thanks. 
 ******
 At 2:30 p.m., President Obama called The New York Times, saying he wanted to clarify a point from the interview. Here is a transcript of that brief call: 
 President Obama: Just one thing I was thinking about as I was getting on the copter. It was hard for me to believe that you were entirely serious about that socialist question. I did think it might be useful to point out that it wasn't under me that we started buying a bunch of shares of banks. It wasn't on my watch. And it wasn't on my watch that we passed a massive new entitlement the prescription drug plan without a source of funding. And so I think it's important just to note when you start hearing folks through these words around that we've actually been operating in a way that has been entirely consistent with free-market principles and that some of the same folks who are throwing the word socialist around can't say the same. 
 Q.So who's watch are we talking about here?
 A. Well, I just think it's clear by the time we got here, there already had been an enormous infusion of taxpayer money into the financial system. And the thing I constantly try to emphasize to people if that coming in, the market was doing fine, nobody would be happier than me to stay out of it. I have more than enough to do without having to worry the financial system. The fact that we've had to take these extraordinary measures and intervene is not an indication of my ideological preference, but an indication of the degree to which lax regulation and extravagant risk taking has precipitated a crisis. 
 I think that covers it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LAYOFFS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); FILIBUSTER (60%); FOOD STAMPS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



362 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: West Wing Takes Its Work To the Air

 BODY:
It was a typical workday on Friday for President Obama -- who went to Columbus, Ohio, to make his case, yet again, for his economic recovery bill -- except that much of the business was conducted at high altitude aboard Air Force One. 
 A retinue of senior White House advisers and aides traveled with the president, who began his day with the morning briefing with his staff. Mr. Obama also spent time during the four-hour trip wooing members of the Ohio Congressional delegation, who flew with him from Washington to Columbus. 
 The president was in Ohio for less than two hours before boarding Air Force One and returning to Washington.
 Audio of The Times's interview with Mr. Obama and additional photographs are at nytimes.com/national.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama arriving Friday morning in Columbus, Ohio, where he spent about two hours. Much of his staff traveled with him, performing their regular duties while aboard Air Force One.
In Columbus, the president addressed a class of police recruits whose jobs are said to be tied to the economic recovery bill.
A Marine carrying the ''football,'' the briefcase that holds the nuclear launching codes, onto the plane.
 President Obama looks in on the staff members working in the communications center on Air Force One.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



363 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Lamont Muses Over a Run Against Rell

BYLINE: By MARK PAZNIOKAS. 
Mark Pazniokas is a former state house reporter for The Hartford Courant. E-mail: mpazniokas@comcast.net

 BODY:
THREE years after an unlikely quest for the United States Senate established Ned Lamont as a national Democratic figure, he said he is weighing another electoral adventure: a challenge to Gov. M. Jodi Rell, one Republican whose political fortunes have not fallen with the Dow.
 With the same bluntness he once directed at Senator Joseph I. Lieberman and the war in Iraq, Mr. Lamont said Mrs. Rell and the General Assembly have failed to tame Connecticut's deficit. He said he would have offered a a more urgent budget address. 
 ''To me that was the opportunity to stand up and say, 'We're confronted with a $4 billion deficit,' '' he said during a telephone interview from his office in Greenwich on a snowy morning. ''This is the time for Connecticut to change the way we do business. And I have to tell you I'm going to bring labor to the table, and they are going to be part of this solution.''
 He is months away from a final decision, but after previously disavowing any interest in the job, Mr. Lamont said that a gubernatorial campaign grows more intriguing as the economy worsens and the deficit deepens, all harbingers of a protracted budget fight in Hartford. 
 Mrs. Rell has not yet said whether she will seek another term.
 ''Hartford can nickel and dime around the edges,'' said Mr. Lamont, the founder of a cable-television company, Lamont Digital. ''They can add 3 percent here, take off 4 percent there,'' But you worry whether they can make the big differences that we need to do.
 Mr. Lamont said Mrs. Rell and the Democratic-controlled legislature are more intent on gamesmanship than confronting what even some Republican legislators privately concede: in addition to the budget cuts proposed by the governor, tax increases and labor concessions must be part of the mix.
 ''I think she punted,'' Mr. Lamont said of the governor's two-year budget proposal, which the legislature's nonpartisan budget office says may be out of balance by more than $2 billion. ''Frankly, the legislature hasn't stood up and come forward with anything very cogent. To me, both the legislature and the governor are playing a game of cat and mouse.''
 Rell administration officials said that they are in talks with public employee unions about the state budget. Mr. Lamont's comments are unlikely to endear him to Mrs. Rell or legislators, whom he has been trying to influence on finance issues as part of a new nonpartisan group of labor, business and political leaders.
 Led by William J. Cibes Jr., a former legislator, state budget chief and chancellor of the Connecticut State University system, the members describe themselves as ''a working group of civically involved citizens.'' They have produced a short-term plan to close the deficit and also issued a long-term ''Blueprint for Connecticut's Future.'' The group hopes to be a continuing presence in the budget debate, but if Mr. Lamont runs for governor, his role in the effort could be compromised. 
 ''He can't help himself,'' said Thomas J. D'Amore Jr., a former campaign adviser who said that Mr. Lamont's occasional impolitic statements are a virtue. ''He is so absolutely and disarmingly refreshing.''
 Mr. Lamont insisted he was rooting for Mrs. Rell to succeed on the budget, despite his criticism and musings about opposing her.
 ''I'd love her to call me,'' said Mr. Lamont, who described the labor and business contributors to Mr. Cibes's group as ready to help build a consensus for tax increases and labor concessions. ''I'd love to be right there. They just need somebody to convene 'em and bring 'em together. If I could help, I'd love a chance.''
 Even Mr. D'Amore described that hope as unrealistic: Mr. Lamont can offer himself as a candidate or an honest broker on the budget, not both. ''You cannot have that both ways,'' he said.
 Unlike 2006, when Mr. Lamont was the only Democratic alternative to Mr. Lieberman, he could face a four-way battle if he seeks the Democratic gubernatorial nomination next year. James A. Amann of Milford, the former state House speaker, declared his candidacy last month. Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford and Secretary of the State Susan Bysiewicz of Middletown have exploratory committees.
 They already have promised to abide by Connecticut's new voluntary system of publicly financed campaigns, which limits participating gubernatorial candidates to $4.5 million over a primary and general-election campaign. In 2006 Mr. Lamont spent nearly $17 million of his own money in a $20 million effort to unseat Mr. Lieberman.
 ''I believe in public financing,'' Mr. Lamont said. Waiting a beat before dropping his voice to a stage whisper, he added, ''Now I do.''
 Mr. Lamont, who challenged Mr. Lieberman over his support for the war and President George W. Bush, won the Democratic primary and the allegiance of liberal bloggers, but the senator was re-elected as a petitioning candidate. Mr. Lamont was co-chairman of the Obama campaign in Connecticut, the same title Mr. Lieberman held in John McCain's campaign.
 Mr. Lamont's friends say he has been vetted for a possible post in the Obama administration, but nothing has materialized.
 His role models for chief executive include the president, but also Mayor Michael R. Bloombergof New York, who drove to the Stamford train station in 2006 to endorse Mr. Lieberman. Despite the slight, Mr. Lamont said he admired the mayor, whom he recently encountered. 
 ''I said, 'Why in God's name would you want to bend the rules, end term limits, run for re-election in New York City during this extraordinary headwind, where all you can do is struggle?' '' Mr. Lamont recalled. ''And he said, 'This will be my opportunity to lead. During the good times, I didn't have that opportunity. Now I will.' I love that response.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ANOTHER CANDIDACY?: Ned Lamont, in his office in Greenwich, is considering a run for governor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); TAX LAW (62%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (90%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009



364 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: March 8, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 ZIMBABWE OPPOSITION PARTY
 Plans Investigation of Crash
 The political party of the prime minister of Zimbabwe, Morgan Tsvangirai, says it will conduct its own inquiry of the car crash that killed the minister's wife, Susan, and injured Mr. Tsvangirai on Friday. Their vehicle was hit by a truck carrying American-supplied antiretroviral drugs. PAGE 6 
 PALESTINIAN PREMIER TO RESIGN
 Salam Fayyad, the prime minister of the Western-backed Palestinian Authority, tendered the resignation of his government, saying he hoped it would help form a Palestinian unity government. PAGE 6 
 IN MIDDLE EAST, A CAUTIOUS CLINTON
 From Egypt to Israel and the West Bank, Hillary Rodham Clinton dropped plain-spoken analysis for a more formal style that relied on time-tested diplomatic formulations. PAGE 10 
 NATIONAL
 MILITARY DISCIPLINE
 Redirects Dropouts
 President Obama's urgent call for every student to graduate and receive higher training has put a spotlight on programs that use military atmosphere and discipline to turn around at-risk teens. PAGE 14
 ARMY'S ELECTRONIC WARFARE PLANS
 The Army is developing its own electronic warfare teams after years of relying on the expertise of the Navy and Air Force, and plans to train enough specialists to fight information-age attacks to rival its sister services and surpass all of the NATO allies combined. PAGE 20 
 RETHINKING THE PER-GALLON TAX
 With gas tax revenue declining and fuel efficiency the holy grail of car manufacturers, officials across the country are testing systems that could move Americans from paying a per-gallon tax at the pump to some form of fee based on road usage. PAGE 22 
 NEW YORK
 IN THE HEART OF THE BRONX,
 Feeling Forgotten by City Hall
 According to the same survey that found that residents of Greenwich Village were New York City's happiest, a swath of the Bronx that includes Morrisania, Claremont, Crotona Park East and parts of Melrose is home to New York City's least happy. One reason, inhabitants of the area say, is that their complaints go unheard. PAGE 28
 Our Towns 28
 OBITUARIES
 ROBERT LEE, 87
 A longtime head of communications for the Lutheran Church and a film producer, he helped bring to the screen ''A Time for Burning,'' a landmark documentary about American race relations. PAGE 35 
 Sports
 A BASEBALL STAR'S INJURY
 May Have a Silver Lining
 A hip injury could mean an extended stay on the disabled list for Alex Rodriguez. It could also be just what the doctor ordered: Temporarily, the face of the Yankees will again belong to Derek Jeter, not Rodriguez, whom we have come to recognize in a variety of poses as the deer caught in the limelight. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. Page 2
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 THE MAKING
 Of Generation OMG
 The attitudes of today's youth are as likely to be as shaped by the recession as yesterday's were by the Great Depression. The recession generation will include those born into it and those emerging from college and high school into a jobless marketplace. What will matter most is where they are on the continuum. PAGE 1 
 DREAMS OF SPLITTING THE TALIBAN
 Should the United States seek to negotiate with some of the same people who gave sanctuary to Osama bin Laden prior to the Sept. 11 attacks? PAGE 1 
 THE VANISHING SIDEKICK
 When Jimmy Fallon showed up on NBC's ''Late Night'' last week without a sidekick, it looked like yet another sign that the Ed McMahon era is over. In a time of rising unemployment, lowered expectations and sagging egos, it could be sensible, and perhaps even therapeutic, to put the professional yes-man back to work. PAGE 1 
 Graying in the White House 3 
 Master's in Beatleology 3 
 Editorial
 A START ON HEALTH CARE REFORM
 President Obama has shown courage and sound judgment in pressing for quick action on comprehensive health care reform, even in the midst of the country's deep economic crisis. But his proposals, for all of their ambition, don't fully answer two central questions: how to cover tens of millions of uninsured Americans and how to reform the health care system to reduce costs and improve the quality of care. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 Seven decades since ''Our Town'' made its debut, the play reminds us how lost we got in the boom before our bust. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Sudan has expelled aid groups that help keep more than a million vulnerable people alive in Darfur. Unfortunately, the Obama administration's initial reaction made Neville Chamberlain seem forceful. The problem is that we have never held either carrots or sticks. It's time to attach costs to brutality. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 What if the crisis of 2008 represents something much more fundamental than a deep recession? What if it's telling us that the whole growth model we created over the last 50 years is simply unsustainable economically and ecologically? WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 12
 HOME ECONOMICS
 The economic news is bleak: more than four million jobs have vanished; the stock market continues to crater; banks continue to falter. The Op-Ed editors asked four writers from around the country -- Toby Barlow in Detroit, Lan Samantha Chang in Iowa City, Marc Fitten in Atlanta and Sheelah Kolhatkar in New York City -- to provide snapshots of their local economies. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 Arts & Leisure No Longer Like a Rock,
 He's Outgrowing an Image
 Dwayne Johnson, right, has a little way to go before his name outlives his current legacy as the action star and former professional wrestler The Rock. But the strategy is already in motion to land Mr. Johnson in Hollywood's top tier. Page 1 
 T: Men's Fashion The Remix: Sandals,
 Squatters and Shotguns
 It's all about... Martin Kippenberger, Jesus sandals, the return of the windbreaker, machine-parts furniture, Harri Peccinotti, design-worthy sound systems, posh squatters and William S. Burroughs. Page 37 
 SCREEN TEST
 Can the leading men of television shows like ''Grey's Anatomy'' make the leap from the tube to the cineplex? Page 94 
 The Magazine
 All Boarded Up:
 Foreclosure's 2nd Chapter
 The next question of the national foreclosure crisis is how towns and cities will deal with blocks of empty houses, abandoned neighborhoods and trolling pillagers. Cleveland got there first, and that's Tony's Brancatelli's problem. Page 28 
 Book Review A Story of the Departure
 Of Society's Virtues
 ''The Vagrants,'' by Yiyun Li, takes place in Mao Zedong's China. Beginning with an execution, the book trains an unrelenting eye on a few typical people in a town of 80,000. This is an anthology of horror stories, but not of the monster variety. Rather, here are the consequences of a society gone mad. Page 1 
 Travel 
 An American Journey
 Along an Iron Road
 Some of the romance of train travel in America might have faded, but there are other benefits to riding the rails. A cross-country trip on an Amtrak train allows one man a chance to reconnect with his country and the people living in it. Page 1 
 Sunday Business Larger Than Life, 
 And Possibly Failure
 The art world has never seen an empire quite like Larry Gagosian's, which is why this dealer might have the farthest to fall. Although the wolf may be at the door, some believe he has achieved the art world's version of ''too big to fail.'' Page 1 
 Automobiles
 A Face Unbecoming
 Acura's new TL sedan boasts several functional upgrades from its predecessors. The company's decision to import the front-end design from its larger vehicles may be a little harder to appreciate. ''A sedan's grille should not look like a weapon used by ninjas from the year 2350,'' Ezra Dyer writes. PAGE 1 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); ARMIES (75%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); ANTIVIRALS (71%); FUEL TAX (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); BASEBALL (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DEREK JETER (50%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009



365 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Schumer Says Schools and State Will Get Some Stimulus Money This Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Schumer said Saturday that New York schools and the state will get much of their federal stimulus money by the end of March, a critical time frame for budgeting that affects state and local taxes. 
 Mr. Schumer said that schools would get half of their share of the federal stimulus package as school boards and mayors prepare 2009-10 budgets. An early release would mean millions of dollars more to help school districts avoid raising the nation's highest property taxes.
For the state, the cash would come as the Legislature and Gov. David A. Paterson negotiate a budget that is projected to have a $14 billion deficit.
 New York is getting $24.6 billion over two years in economic stimulus.
 Mr. Schumer said late Saturday that school districts would need to obligate 85 percent of their stimulus money by the end of 2010, with the remainder needed to be allocated by the end of September 2011.
 Albany will get two-thirds of its stimulus money this month to create jobs through public works projects and to avoid raising more taxes. If the state can show the need for more, Governor Paterson can request up to 90 percent of the balance. That will likely create an additional pressure in negotiating a 2009-10 budget with the Legislature, which has many members fighting cuts to powerful special interests in the health care industry and in many other areas of the spending plan.
 Mr. Paterson has said he is willing to use some of the stimulus to roll back the tax increases, but warns that if the Legislature uses the stimulus to ease New York out of its current fiscal crisis, the state, because of overspending, would likely face another crisis in two years.
 ''These are difficult times for our school boards and this aid is critical to avoid layoffs and higher taxes,'' Mr. Schumer said Saturday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); JOB CREATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); HEALTH CARE (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (91%); DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009



366 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: A Rising Dollar Lifts U.S. But Adds to Crisis Abroad

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As the world is seized with anxiety in the face of a spreading financial crisis, the one place having a considerably easier time attracting money is, perversely enough, the same place that started much of the trouble: the United States.
American investors are ditching foreign ventures and bringing their dollars home, entrusting them to the supposed bedrock safety of United States government bonds. And China continues to buy staggering quantities of American debt.
These actions are lifting the value of the dollar and providing the Obama administration with a crucial infusion of financing as it directs trillions of dollars toward rescuing banks and stimulating the economy, enabling the government to pay for these efforts without lifting interest rates.
And yet in a global economy crippled by a lack of confidence and capital, with lending and investment mechanisms dysfunctional from Milan to Manila, the tilt of money toward the United States appears to be exacerbating the crisis elsewhere. 
The pursuit of capital suddenly seems like a zero sum game. A dollar invested by foreign central banks and investors in American government bonds is a dollar that is not available to Eastern European countries desperately seeking to refinance debt. It is a dollar that cannot reach Africa, where many countries are struggling with the loss of aid and foreign investment.
''Virtually all of the low-income countries are in very serious trouble,'' said Eswar Prasad, a former official at the International Monetary Fund and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, the liberal-leaning research organization in Washington.
He went on: ''This is the third wave of the financial crisis. Low-income countries are getting hit very hard. The flow of private capital to the emerging market has dried up.''
Private money invested in so-called emerging countries plunged from $928 billion in 2007 to $466 billion last year and is likely to fall to $165 billion this year, according to the Institute of International Finance.
Not that the United States is enjoying a great influx of money. Globally, investors are holding tight to cash and extracting it as quickly as they can from risky ventures.
In the United States, investments by foreigners have slowed markedly. But as Americans eschew foreign deals and keep their dollars at home, and as foreign central banks -- especially China -- buy Treasury bills, the United States is absorbing money that used to be scattered around the globe. And that is making money tighter elsewhere in the world.
The most immediate crisis appears to be in Eastern Europe, where investors borrowed exuberantly in foreign currencies -- notably the euro and the Swiss franc -- using those funds to build office towers and factories. Their debts are growing as their currencies decline in value, leading to bank losses and requiring government bailouts along with aid from the I.M.F..
Economists liken this episode to the financial crisis that assaulted much of Asia in the late 1990s. Then, as now, investors borrowed in foreign currencies. When investment left the region, local currencies plummeted, particularly in Thailand and Indonesia, setting off defaults and sowing job losses and poverty.
''Eastern Europe looks incredibly similar to Asia in the 1990s,'' said Brad Setser, an economist at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.
In one key regard, this crisis is more problematic: In the 1990s, the rest of the global economy was growing vigorously. Once danger abated, Asian countries were able to resume growth by selling goods to the United States, Europe, Japan and China.
Indeed, the very plunge in currencies that precipitated the crisis also provided a fix, making Thai, Malaysian, Indonesian and Korean goods that much cheaper on world markets.
This time, as many low-income countries again see their currencies fall, they are confronting a world beset by recession, in which demand for their products is weak and falling.
In a report released Sunday, the World Bank predicted that the global economy would shrink in 2009 for the first time in more than half a century and forecast that global trade would decline for the first time since the early 1980s.
''Depreciation isn't enough now to offset the global contraction,'' said Mr. Setser, noting that export powers like Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Brazil have had rapid declines in sales in recent months. ''Everybody's looking vulnerable. All commodity exporters are potentially subject to currency crises.''
Fears are growing that a much broader group of countries will plunge into trouble. Mr. Prasad's list of potential danger zones includes Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia, as well as Pakistan and Ecuador.
In the Asian financial crisis, countries at the center of the storm were particularly vulnerable because the values of their currencies were mostly pegged to the dollar. Once central banks ran out of dollars to exchange for their own currencies, they lost their ability to influence the exchange rate. As a result, their currencies fell, turning already large debts into impossible debts.
Many more countries now allow their currencies to float with the whims of the market, removing this grim chain of events. Still, as economic activity slows and banks are stuck with larger losses, the damage could swell beyond the ability of governments to finance bailouts, said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a former chief economist at the I.M.F. and now a professor at Harvard.
''Debt collapses are going to wreak havoc with exchange rates,'' Mr. Rogoff predicted. ''A lot of countries in Europe are already on the brink of default.''
Only two years ago, many analysts were suggesting that the I.M.F. -- created more than 60 years ago to rescue countries in financial distress -- no longer had a clear reason to exist. Now, the fund is scrambling for contributions from developed nations to bolster its $350 billion war chest. Mr. Setser suggested it needed $1 trillion for all that might yet unfold.
Because worries are deeper nearly everywhere else, the United States and the dollar have essentially benefited from the worldwide panic. In the last year, the dollar has risen 13 percent against major foreign currencies after adjusting for inflation, according to Federal Reserve data. Foreign holdings of Treasury bills rose by $456 billion in 2008.
''It's a huge safe haven effect,'' said William R. Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''The basic assumption that people are making is that the U.S. government will never default on its debt.''
As the dominant flavor of money used in business worldwide, the dollar has once again been affirmed as the global reserve currency.
Only last year, some analysts said that as the American economy sagged, foreign central banks would be reluctant to sink national savings into the dollar. That has been soundly debunked.
In ordinary times, the rise of the dollar would provoke American worries that it would crimp exports by making goods more expensive on world markets. But for American policy makers, what matters now is attracting enough buyers of American debt to finance the rescue plans, and if the dollar must rise along the way, that is a cost worth paying.
''The fact that we can still borrow at lower interest rates is saving us from much more severe adjustments,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''We're really still staring down an abyss.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: FLIGHT TO TREASURIES PROPS UP THE DOLLAR: Although the United States deficit has ballooned, foreign investors, particularly China, have increased their holdings of federal debt and abandoned corporate debt and equities. The flight to Treasuries has fueled a surge in the value of the dollar. (Sources: Treasury Department
 Federal Reserve) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); LIBERALISM (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011



367 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Workers Heading Home

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The hiring of immigrant high-tech workers was a heated issue well before the economy went into a tailspin. So it's no real surprise that the bank bailout legislation includes language to discourage banks from recruiting skilled foreigners on work visas. 
It seems to be a political gesture, understandable and probably empty. ''Citibank and the others aren't hiring, they're firing,'' Vivek Wadhwa, a former technology entrepreneur who is an adjunct professor at Duke University, said in an interview. ''It has no practical effect, other than to make a couple of senators feel good. But it's a stupid message to send.''
The real worry should not be smart foreigners coming to take jobs in America, Mr. Wadhwa said, but all the bright, ambitious immigrants who are leaving the United States and returning home, especially to India and China.
In the last two decades, Mr. Wadhwa estimates, 50,000 immigrants left the United States and returned to India and China. In the next five years, he projects that 100,000 more will make the return trip. ''A trickle is turning into a flood,'' he said.
Instead of permitting skilled immigrants to enter the United States, Mr. Wadhwa insisted, the country has to start wooing them by creating ''fast-track'' immigration policies and incentives to stay, as nations like Singapore and Australia have done.
The United States, said Mr. Wadhwa, who is also a researcher at the Harvard Law School, has too often taken the immigrant high-tech dividend for granted. Previous research by Mr. Wadhwa and his associates found that immigrants were the chief executives or chief technologists at one of every four technology and engineering companies started in America from 1995 to 2005. These immigrant-founded companies employed 450,000 workers in 2006. STEVE LOHR COMMENT These immigrants are not going to disappear if we replace them with Americans. They will work in other countries. The American companies will run after them and set up shop wherever they can be most competitive. -- Rohan Mathur, March 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011



368 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Surfers Deal a Blow to a Florida Town's Beach Dredging Project

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
Terry Gibson grew up surfing the waters off Palm Beach, Fla., and loved its beaches and prized breaks.
''The reefs here in this area, and the sand bars that attach to them, form these perfectly shaped waves,'' he said. ''When it's good, it's incredibly good.''
So when the Town of Palm Beach proposed a beach repair project that Mr. Gibson thought posed a threat to those prized breaks, he and other surfers challenged the project in court. 
Last week they succeeded in blocking -- at least temporarily, on environmental grounds -- a strategy widely used against the beach erosion that threatens most of the nation's coast and is accelerating as global warming fuels the rise of sea levels.
In ruling against the project, the administrative law judge who heard the case, Robert E. Meale, criticized its potential environmental effects and denounced as ''worthless'' some of the engineering behind it. Advocates of the project, a sand-pumping effort known as beach nourishment, called the ruling misguided and said they feared that if it held up it would drive coastal towns to remedies that are more environmentally dangerous, like constructing seawalls or other coastal armor.
But the surfers and their supporters were delighted.
''These things are claimed to be so beneficial, but not if you don't do the due diligence,'' said Ericka D'Avanzo, who surfs regularly on the beach, which is known as a center of competitive surfing where many champions have trained. She is the Florida regional manager for the Surfrider Foundation, an organization of surfers that backed the challenge. The Snook Foundation, a group of anglers, also joined.
The beach, a section of Palm Beach shoreline known as Reach 8, comprises a park owned by the nearby town of Lake Worth, which supported the surfers, and beaches immediately to the north and south.
''It's one of the most beautiful areas to surf,'' Ms. D'Avanzo said. ''It's like going to the Bahamas -- how clear the water is and how much life there is at the reef.''
Mr. Gibson, the fishing editor of Outdoor Life magazine, said surfers also prize the beach because it offers relatively easy public access.
The Reach 8 project would be the latest in a number of beach nourishment efforts Palm Beach has made against its chronic erosion problem. As is typical, the project would involve dredging sand from offshore, mixing it with water and pumping it in a slurry onto the beach and into the nearby surf zone.
Like other critics of beach nourishment, the surfers and their allies argued that unless replacement sand is well matched to the beach, which is hard to do, the sand causes problems, interfering with nesting sea turtles and small animals like sand fleas that form the bottom of beach and marine food webs.
If the sand is too fine -- a particular issue in this case -- it can cause the water to become cloudy. And because the replacement sand moves around after it is pumped onto the beach, it can end up covering underwater rocks and coral reefs that are important to surfers, divers and anglers.
There are also growing worries about environmental damage where replacement sand is dredged. And the projects are heavily criticized because they often do not last as long as engineering models say they will.
Critics of such models were exultant at the judge's harsh language about them.
''I am absolutely exhilarated,'' said Orrin H. Pilkey, a coastal geologist at Duke University and a longtime critic of development in erosion hazard areas.
Robert S. Young, a coastal geologist who succeeded Dr. Pilkey as head of the Program for the Study of Developed Shorelines, now at Western Carolina University, said that the models ''are really useless for prediction.''
Dr. Young, who testified for the surfers, said in an interview that such beach projects were nevertheless rarely challenged. ''For a small, underfunded group to have a permit pulled because the project was poorly designed and there is potential environmental damage -- this is the first time,'' he said.
But Robert G. Dean, a coastal engineer at the University of Florida who testified for Palm Beach in the case, said in an interview that Florida offered abundant evidence for beach nourishment as an erosion remedy.
''This experiment has been done in Palm Beach County and it has been successful,'' Dr. Dean said. In the last 50 years, he said, beach nourishment has restored many heavily eroded Florida beaches, much to the benefit of the state and its economy.
He conceded that one model, called Genesis, used in planning the Reach 8 project displayed serious deficiencies in the design process, but said it had been abandoned in favor of another that worked better.
Anyway, Dr. Dean added, ''whatever models may say, we have a demonstrated record of success on the east coast of Florida. Absolutely.''
Martha Collins, a lawyer who represented the surfers, said each side had 30 days to comment on the ruling, which would then go to Michael W. Sole, secretary of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. Mr. Sole must accept or reject the ruling, in toto or in part, by June, she said.
Ms. Collins is not a surfer but said she decided to become an environmental lawyer when, as a high school student in Marco Island, on Florida's west coast, she saw a beach nourishment project leave a beach she loved ''more or less destroyed.'' She said Judge Meale's decision to bar the project on environmental grounds was a first.
Peter B. Elwell, the town manager of Palm Beach, said the Town Council would meet with lawyers who argued the town's case ''to review the options and prospects for appealing all or some of this decision.'' Until then, Mr. Elwell said, ''it would not be appropriate to talk about it.''
Dr. Dean said challenges like in the Palm Beach case would only make a bad situation worse, as people whose buildings are threatened turn instead to seawalls or other hard structures known to damage beaches.
Many communities that rely on sea walls or the like have seen their beaches vanish under rising waters.
Dr. Dean said he had spoken to the Palm Beach Shore Protection Board shortly before Judge Meale issued his decision.
''They are hell-bent on structures now,'' he said. ''Anything they try to do in the water, there is just so much weight lined up against them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Terry Gibson and others feared what impact a project might have on a beach's prized breaks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Aquatic life was an interested third party in the court challenge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY D. B. SNYDER) (pg.A12) MAPS: Palm Beach is looking to stop erosion on a section of beach. (pg.A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (93%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WATER SPORTS (89%); SURFING (89%); EROSION (78%); SAND & GRAVEL MINING (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); EROSION CONTROL (74%); JUDGES (70%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (70%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); SPORT FISHING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011



369 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Business News With Attitude

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER and TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
Was last week the worst one in CNBC's 20-year history -- or the best?
The financial news network, a unit of NBC Universal, was savaged by ''The Daily Show'' in a viral video sensation. It was criticized for being too cozy with the corporations it covers. One of its stars, Jim Cramer, was ridiculed by the White House press secretary. And one of its reporters faced a new round of criticism for an on-air outburst about mortgage ''losers.''
All the while, CNBC covered the incessant downward slide of the economy with special reports on particularly bad days for the markets. Mr. Cramer, the host of ''Mad Money,'' barely had time for his usual shuffleboard games at the Elk's Lodge near his home.
The lodge ''is a booyah-free zone,'' he said, using his trademark exclamation. ''I was not able to get away from the booyahs this week.'' 
Whether the attention is positive or negative, it is certain that this tumultuous financial season is CNBC's reason for being. One month shy of its 20th anniversary, CNBC is being jokingly called ''the recession network'' within the halls of its headquarters in New Jersey.
After it achieved record ratings last fall, the network's audience remains above its annual average. But CNBC's executives and hosts seem well aware that their ratings have traditionally stagnated in down times for the Dow. ''People do not want to come to a show each night and hear how poor they are,'' Mr. Cramer said.
But in a change from previous downturns, CNBC is now a place for politics, to borrow a phrase from its sister channel MSNBC. The network's journalists have been encouraged to speak their minds, making the line between reporter and commentator almost indistinguishable at times.
''When they are all sitting around the table it's hard to tell a business pundit versus a reporter,'' said Tom Rosenstiel, the director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism.
For instance, Larry Kudlow, a conservative economist who is considering a run for the United States Senate, is the co-host of an 11 a.m. news hour. Three CNBC employees, who insisted on anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, said that the role of opinion on the channel had been a subject of frequent discussion.
With economic attention focused on Washington, the network is spending less time on bullish stock picks and more time assessing the government's actions.
In recent weeks some have perceived the network to be leading the campaign against President Obama's economic agenda. Mr. Cramer, who calls himself a lifelong Democrat, said last week that the administration's agenda was ''destroying the life savings of millions of Americans.'' One week earlier Mr. Kudlow declared that Mr. Obama was ''declaring war on investors, entrepreneurs, small businesses, large corporations, and private equity and venture capital funds.''
Those investors and businessmen, of course, are CNBC's core audience. What some critics have characterized as a ''war on wealth'' could affect the network's brand because the moneyed class makes up much of its core audience.
Partisanship aside, this is CNBC's equivalent of a war. Just as the first cable news channel, CNN, rose to prominence during the gulf war in 1991, and another one, the Fox News Channel, became a ratings leader in the period before the Iraq war in 2002 and 2003, CNBC is on a war footing. Last Monday, when the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index reached 12-year lows, the network produced a special report from 8 to 11 p.m.
CNBC's moment in the spotlight has actually lasted nearly two years. An analysis of Nielsen ratings shows that the network's home audience started to surge in August 2007 as the upheaval began in the credit markets. They peaked in March 2008 when Bear Stearns was sold to JPMorgan Chase in a deal arranged by Washington.
After hitting a plateau that spring, the ratings soared last fall when other investment banks collapsed, setting records for the network.
In the first two months of 2009, CNBC averaged 282,000 home viewers at any given time, up from 264,000 in the same period in 2008 and 233,000 in the same period in 2007. CNBC's chief competitors, Bloomberg and the Fox Business Network, are not publicly rated by Nielsen. CNBC says the Nielsen ratings undercounts its audience, as they do not measure out-of-home viewership on trading floors and offices. (CNBC and The New York Times have a content sharing agreement.)
Asked in a telephone interview about CNBC's time in the spotlight Friday, the network's president, Mark Hoffman, said it was a ''unique time for the organization.''
''It has certainly received a lot more notoriety, and along with that a lot more audience,'' he said.
He acknowledged that the notoriety has both ''benefits and liabilities.'' Twice in the last month, the White House has chastised CNBC's personalities, first after the reporter Rick Santelli energetically expressed his opposition to Mr. Obama's housing plans on the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade. CNBC eagerly promoted the segment and conservatives seized on it, holding ''tea party'' protests across the country.
Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, dismissed Mr. Santelli's arguments and offered him a decaffeinated cup of coffee. Later, the ''Today'' show co-host Matt Lauer clashed with Mr. Santelli over the assertion that Mr. Gibbs had threatened the reporter.
CNBC came up at Mr. Gibbs's briefing again last week after Mr. Cramer accused Mr. Obama of causing ''the greatest wealth destruction I have seen by a president.'' Mr. Gibbs said that ''if you turn on a certain program, it's geared to a very small audience, no offense to my good friends or friend at CNBC.''
Still, the headlines about CNBC are a testament to its relevance. On Wednesday, Jon Stewart, the host of ''The Daily Show'' on Comedy Central, spent eight minutes skewering CNBC after Mr. Santelli backed out of an interview on the show. Mr. Stewart played video clips from the network of faulty predictions about the economic crisis.
''If I had only followed CNBC's advice, I'd have a million dollars today,'' Mr. Stewart said, ''provided that I'd started with $100 million.''
Mr. Stewart echoed the criticism that CNBC suffered after the dot-com bubble of the 1990s, namely that the network had acted as a booster for the markets.
When the CNBC anchor Erin Burnett appeared on ''Real Time With Bill Maher'' on HBO on Friday, Mr. Maher raised a similar issue. ''This is the channel that Wall Street watches all day,'' Mr. Maher said. ''I think this is more than a channel; I think it affects what happens on Wall Street. Why didn't anybody there predict what was going to happen?''
Ms. Burnett said that the dot-com bubble was predicted, too. ''It's easy to say 'a bubble.' You don't know when it's going to burst,'' she said, adding that the questions of timing and magnitude were missed by many financial experts.
Separately, in a telephone interview Friday, the ''Squawk Box'' co-host Joe Kernen said of the market turmoil, ''Ask yourself whether you really think it's CNBC that caused it, or was it the housing bubble that caused it? I think we know what caused it.''
CNBC is a boon to NBC Universal's bottom line; it has posted record profits for at least the last three years, and Mr. Hoffman says the first quarter of 2009 has been ''very strong'' for the network.
Mr. Cramer acknowledged he might have a harder time holding onto viewers in a bear market. To attract viewers he said he would continue to make ''Mad Money'' entertaining, and that means more predictions, even when they can be used against him by comedians like Mr. Stewart later.
''If I get gun-shy, then I'm not going to be relevant,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Larry Kudlow, an anchor at CNBC, sharply criticized President Obama's economics policy as a ''war on investors.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK)
 Jim Cramer, of ''Mad Money,'' was belittled by a White House spokesman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) GRAPHIC: CNBC's hosts have been encouraged to give their views about economic issues in the news. From left, Rick Santelli, Erin Burnett, Jim Cramer, Becky Quick, Larry Kudlow and Maria Bartiromo. (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); RECESSION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); WRITERS (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); POLITICS (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (51%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (90%); MARIA BARTIROMO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011



370 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Report Projects A Worldwide Economic Slide

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In one of the bleakest assessments yet, economists at the World Bank predicted on Sunday that the global economy and the volume of global trade would both shrink this year for the first time since World War II. 
 The World Bank said in a new report that the crisis that began with junk mortgages in the United States was causing havoc for poorer countries that had nothing to do with the original problem. 
 As a result, it said, nations in Latin America, Africa and East Asia have had not only their growth stifled but their access to credit as well.
 The bank's assessment for 2009 was grimmer than those of most private forecasters. It did not provide a specific estimate, but bank officials said its economists would be publishing one in the next several weeks.
 Even extremely pessimistic forecasters have predicted that the global economy would eke out a tiny expansion, on continuing if slowed growth outside the United States and Europe. In late January, the International Monetary Fund reduced its estimate for global growth this year to just 0.5 percent, the lowest level in more than 60 years. 
 In its new report, prepared for a meeting next week of finance ministers from the 20 industrialized and large developing countries, the World Bank warned that the financial disruptions are all but certain to overwhelm the ability of institutions like it and the International Monetary Fund to provide a buffer.
 Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank, pleaded for wealthy governments to create a ''vulnerability fund'' and to set aside a fraction of what they spend on stimulating their own economies to help others.
 ''This global crisis needs a global solution and preventing an economic catastrophe in developing countries is important for global efforts to overcome this crisis,'' Mr. Zoellick said in a statement. ''We need investments in safety nets, infrastructure, and small and medium-size companies to create jobs and to avoid social and political unrest.''
 The bank said that developing countries, many of which had been growing rapidly in recent years, were being devastated by plunging exports, falling commodity prices, declining foreign investment and vanishing credit.
 The impact of the global slowdown varies widely among countries, and the drop in prices for oil and other commodities has created both winners and losers. But the emerging-market countries face a combined financing shortfall of at least $270 billion and as much as $700 billion over the next year or two, the bank said.
 Central European countries like Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic are hurting from diminished exports to western Europe. They are also reeling from a severe credit crisis among major European banks, which have taken huge losses on American mortgages and mortgage-backed securities. 
 East Asian countries are experiencing plunging global trade. Demand for cheap manufactured goods has declined in the United States. That slump has hit many Asian countries both directly and indirectly.
 Under the ''vulnerability fund'' proposal, when rich countries set stimulus financing for their own countries, they would set aside an additional 0.7 percent to help stabilize poorer countries. 
 Mr. Zoellick said the new fund could then make the money available to countries through the World Bank, the United Nations or other international financial institutions like the I.M.F. 
 He said the World Bank could triple its own lending in 2009 to $35 billion, though that would still be a small fraction of the shortfall facing poor countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); POLAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); HUNGARY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



371 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: It's Art of the Computer Generation (33 and Under, Please)

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
El Beit is a homey coffee shop in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, where the young gather at long wooden tables, glued to their laptops, totally oblivious to their surroundings. Arriving there on one recent wintry morning in blue jeans, a gray hoodie and wool cap, Mark Essen quickly booted up, and his screen came alive with a series of jewel-tone grids. 
 It was a video game of his own design, Flywrench, yet it was something more. It will be one of the first sights greeting visitors next month when the New Museum of Contemporary Art on the Lower East Side opens its inaugural triennial exhibition. 
 Mr. Essen, 22, the youngest of the 50 artists in the show, will be making his museum debut with Flywrench, which the public will be invited to play on an arcade-style console. ''The goal is to get to the square,'' he said. ''You are constantly moving, but at the same time constantly failing. It's not about thinking, it's about reacting.'' 
 The images in Flywrench are reminiscent of the grid-based canvases that brought the painter Peter Halley to attention in the 1980s. As Mr. Essen began scrolling through the game, each move seemed more treacherous than the next, a blend of art and brain teaser. 
 Given that video art has long since entered the contemporary canon, it may come as little surprise that Mr. Essen's game is featured amid paintings, drawing, photography, sculpture and films. Still, critics will no doubt question whether New York needs yet another giant survey of contemporary art. After all, the Whitney Museum of American Art has its love-to-hate-it biennial, and the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Queens its sprawling ''Greater New York.'' 
 ''This is different,'' said Lisa Phillips, the New Museum's director, in an interview at its two-year-old building on the Bowery. ''It's a really focused exhibition about a generation.''
 Flippantly titled ''The Generational: Younger Than Jesus,'' the building-wide show, which runs from April 8 through June 14, will present an international sampling of artists 33 and under who were born and bred in the computer age. 
 ''They constitute the largest demographic since the baby boomers,'' said Massimiliano Gioni, director of special exhibitions at the New Museum, who organized the show with Laura Hoptman, the New Museum's senior curator, and Lauren Cornell, the museum's adjunct curator. 
 Mr. Gioni added: ''Sociologists and marketing experts have already labeled this generation everything from the Millennials and Generation Y to iGeneration and Generation Me. In China 50 percent of the population is younger than 33. This generation of artists are the most important agents of change in this century.'' 
 The exhibition's curators also point out that turning points in recent art history have often involved young practitioners. Jasper Johns painted his first flag at 24; Matthew Barney had his first group show at 23; Eva Hesse burst into the scene when she was just 25. 
 While other ambitious survey exhibitions in New York tend to focus primarily on American artists, or those working in this country, ''Younger Than Jesus'' is international in scope. Its 50 artists hail from more than 25 countries, including Algeria, China, Colombia, Venezuela, Poland, Lebanon and Turkey. 
 Reflecting the tough economic climate it is a low-budget endeavor. The show was only a year in the making. Rather than trotting the globe visiting artists, the curators relied on their Internet savvy, reaching out to 150 writers, teachers, artists, critics, curators and bloggers worldwide, for recommendations. From around 600 suggested names, the curators whittled the group down to the final 50. 
 If there is a prevailing practice among these young artists, it is a hopscotch across disciplines. Most of these artists say they do everything from book making and painting to sculpture and performance. 
 ''It's a post-medium attitude,'' said Ms. Hoptman, one of the curators. ''None of these artists are constrained by what they make their work out of, or how they make it. And that's very new.'' 
 Kerstin Bratsch, a 30-year-old German-born artist in the show, works out of a Williamsburg studio filled with paintings, sculptures, posters, books, backdrops and even stockings. ''It's all very organic,'' she said. In addition to own work, she creates art as part of a collective called Das Institute.
 She shares a studio with Adele Roder, a partner in Das Institute whom she met at school in Berlin.'' The two women frequently make computer-generated images that ''can become anything,'' as Ms. Bratsch put it. Ms. Bratsch then uses the images as the basis for her paintings, and Ms. Roder transfers the designs onto fabrics. Ms. Roder has even created a line of stockings that a friend, the artist Debo Eilers, used in a recent performance. 
 ''I see my paintings in relation to something else,'' Ms. Bratsch said. In addition to abstract romantic compositions that cover the floors and walls of her scruffy studio, there are shelves of handmade books of her creation. She makes plexiglass stands to show them off. Some of the books are filled with original drawings, others with appropriated images lifted from books or catalogs or designs she generated from shadings manipulated on a photocopier. 
 Books are among the many things that fill the Midtown studio of Josh Smith, who at 33 is one of the more senior and recognizable names in the exhibition. A solo show of his paintings is currently on view at Luhring Augustine in Chelsea. 
 Mr. Smith creates in bulk. The studio brims with waist-high stacks of 5-by-4-foot silk-screens painted in abstract colorful designs, shelves of books he has made and racks and walls filled with paintings. 
 ''I stack them up because I really love them all,'' he said. ''It's the idea of equality.'' 
 Mr. Smith has created some 200 to 300 collages and paintings that incorporate everything from abstract swirls and scrawls to recognizable natural objects like fish and leaves. Some of his paintings also have his name scrawled across them in different ways. 
 He makes books for himself and other artists. ''Books are my way of thinking,'' Mr. Smith said. 
 That he is at once a painter, a publisher and a printmaker who shrugs off limits made Mr. Smith a natural for ''Younger Than Jesus,'' said Mr. Gioni, the curator.
 ''I like the element of overproduction,'' he said, ''that he makes far more than is absolutely necessary.''' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Laura Hoptman, Massimiliano Gioni and Lauren Cornell, curators at the New Museum of Contemporary Art.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J B REED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 Kerstin Bratsch, 30, one of the young artists in the New Museum of Contemporary Art's forthcoming triennial exhibition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); FILM (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); PAINTING (75%); COMPUTER GAMES (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%); GENERATION Y (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (64%); SOCIOLOGY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



372 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Sunshine Is Harbinger Of Optimism

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
If you managed to get out of the house without glimpsing the news over the weekend, you might, for a few hours at least, have allowed yourself to indulge in a bit of luxurious, sun-baked optimism. The snowstorm of last week, all those inches, all those glitches, the piles of snow whiting out plans and best intentions, seemed like a vicious weather crime of the distant past. Here was, at long last, the sun emerging, a cosmic reminder that cycles govern our lives, that winters eventually do end, and so, presumably, do economic downturns.
 What's more, all over the city, merchants and restaurateurs were noticing that New Yorkers finally seemed relaxed enough to loosen whatever no-purchasing policies they had self-imposed over the past several months. 
 At the famous pizza place Totonno's, in Coney Island, Saturday was a lively day of business, after months of a slow trickle unlike any that Louise Ciminieri, one of the owners, has ever known. 
 ''It definitely made me feel optimistic that things will pick up this spring,'' she said.
 At the jewelry store Gas Bijoux in Manhattan's NoLITa neighborhood, longtime customers who hadn't been seen since last summer were suddenly in the store, not just browsing, but buying. ''It was a very good day,'' said a saleswoman, Eloise Simonet. 
 At Tiffany & Company, shoppers had to wedge their way into the elevator.
 And at the annual Armory Show, held at Piers 92 and 94 this year, some of the dealers felt a considerable shift in mood. ''It was certainly a very optimistic day at a fair that had gotten off to a slow start,'' said Jay Gorney, director of contemporary art at Mitchell-Innes & Nash, which sold a $120,000 painting, among others, on Saturday. ''It was a lovely day and people seemed to want to buy things.''
 If only the weather would hold until Monday -- maybe people would want to buy all sorts of things. Like stocks.
 ''Maybe now that the weather's a little better, things will start to move back up, because everyone's feeling more optimistic,'' said Lenn Pryor, an executive at a high-tech company who was at a playground in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., with his son on Saturday. ''This was such an oppressive winter, it just seemed like the weather matched the mood. Maybe now things can turn a corner.''
 Mr. Pryor is not a trader, but his instincts aren't that far off: Stock prices actually are higher in spring and winter than in summer and fall, according to Ben Jacobsen, a professor of finance at Massey University in New Zealand, whose extensive research suggests the old adage ''Sell in May and go away'' has a rational basis. 
 Although Professor Jacobsen is not ready to chalk those variables up to the effect of weather on mood -- as he sees it, you could correlate lower stock prices in summer with ice cream consumption as plausibly as you could the temperature -- he does believe that spring is a strong season for stocks.
 David Hirshleifer, a professor at the University at California, Irvine, is more interested in the sunshine itself than the season -- he found that strong sunshine at the sites of 26 leading stock exchanges around the world (including the New York Stock Exchange) was linked to higher stock returns. Annual returns for the market were, over the course of the 16-year-period he studied, 25 percent on sunny days, compared with 9 percent on cloudy days. 
 ''Various psychological studies suggest that people are more optimistic about their long-term prospects on sunny days than cloudy days,'' Professor Hirshleifer said. If psychologists haven't studied the effects of days like this weekend's, it's only because they are too rare to provide any kind of reliable sample. 
 For those who haven't checked the weather, we're expecting clouds and rain for at least the next three days. On Sunday in Brooklyn Heights, at the playground near the Promenade, a man who would only say he worked in finance said that Professor Hirshleifer's study made intuitive sense to him -- he had always suspected that really rainy weather had a dampening effect on the market in New York (in fact, it's cloud cover, not rain, that makes the difference, according to Professor Hirshleifer). 
 So maybe the man, who was playing with his 2-year-old daughter, was wishing the market was open for business? ''No, I don't wish that,'' he said. ''These days, I'm just happy when the market is closed.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (82%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (82%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (82%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



373 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: For High Bidder, a Foreclosed House Can Be a Bargain of a Home

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
In rapid-fire speech that resembled a horse-race announcer's, an auctioneer introduced the first of the day's 375 properties: a seven-bedroom, five-bathroom home in Roselle, N.J., with an estimated value of $565,000 and a starting bid of $129,000. (Final sale price: $245,000.)
 On the floor, four men called the bids, screaming, blowing whistles, thrusting their arms into the air and using their fingers to signal how much more was being offered over the last bid. 
 ''One man's misery is another man's fortune,'' the saying goes, and perhaps nowhere was it more true than at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on Sunday, where a mob of potential buyers convened for an auction of foreclosed homes, a fast-paced and somewhat unusual happening in a place more used to trade shows and corporate events.
 Some 1,400 people were there, a crowd twice as large as the one last year, when the California-based Real Estate Disposition Corporation held its first foreclosure auction in the city, in a conference room at a Midtown hotel. But there were not nearly as many foreclosed houses then as there are now, said the corporation's chairman, Robert Friedman. 
 ''The economy is much more severe these days,'' Mr. Friedman added. ''We're seeing more foreclosures than any other time in the 19 years we've been in business, and we have auctions almost every day all across the country, sometimes more than one auction a day.''
 Outside the Javits Center, some 20 protesters -- among them labor leaders, antiwar activists and someone from City Councilman Charles Barron's office in Brooklyn -- were critical of both the auction and the billions of dollars the federal government has devoted to bailing out financial institutions. One protester held a sign that read: ''R.E.D.C. made $3 billion last year by auctioning off working people's homes. Bail out the people -- not the corporate predators.''
 The corporation does not have any role in foreclosing on homes; it is simply hired by banks to sell the foreclosed homes they own at auction, Mr. Friedman said. Last year, it held 300 auctions. This year, it expects to hold about 100 more than that.
 From a dais that rose before packed rows of aluminum chairs, the company's vice president, Todd Gladis, greeted the audience with a mix of lament and rallying cry. ''Nobody likes the foreclosure crisis that's going on,'' he bellowed into a microphone. ''But we believe that everybody here in this room will play a role in turning things around by turning houses into homes.'' 
 Then, the auction began.
 ''I pray that God will help me find a place I will like and can afford,'' said Letisha Jones, 28, a nurse who lives with her parents and two sisters in East New York, Brooklyn. Ms. Jones said that she planned to spend no more than $100,000 on a home for herself, or maybe a bigger home for her family. 
 She left empty-handed. ''Maybe I'll have better luck next time, now that I know how it works,'' she said. 
 The audience was roughly divided into three categories. There were experienced bidders, many of them investors who have made careers of buying, fixing up and selling foreclosed homes for below-market prices -- and quick profits. There were the novices, who looked at once lost and awestruck, their eyes darting between the booklet listing the houses that were up for grabs and the screens that showcased them as the bidding went on. Finally, there were the curious, like Ashley Durham and her fiance, Darnell Smith, who plan to marry in May.
 ''We might come back to an auction after the wedding to see if we can buy a place for us, but for now, we're just looking,'' said Ms. Durham, 25. 
 ''And laughing,'' Mr. Smith, 32, added. ''This is crazy.''
 The auction's rules were simple. Buyers were required to pay 5 percent of a house's sale price on the spot, so the bidders had to come with a $5,000 cashier's check and the ability to cover the remaining balance of a down payment with cash or a personal check. The rest of the sale could be financed; mortgage specialists were posted at desks behind the stage. 
 The properties included a weathered two-family home in Jamaica, Queens, offered for $500 and sold for $125,000; and a two-bedroom, one-bathroom house in Hampton Bays, on Long Island, offered for $89,000 and sold for $185,000. 
 The corporation adds a 5 percent fee to the final price of each house. 
 Beth Kaplan Bongar, 54, a writer and performer who also works as a real estate agent, bought the Hampton Bays house with part of the money she received in the sale of a loft in TriBeCa that she had owned for 30 years, she said.
 Ms. Bongar said that she visited the house on Saturday. She noted that it had a fenced-in front yard, where her two dogs could run free, and that outside of windows that had to be replaced, it did not require substantial repair work. 
 ''I need a place to call home,'' she said. ''And in the long run, this will cost me a little more than the storage bin I have down in Jersey, which is costing me $300 a month.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: About 1,400 people attended an auction of foreclosed houses at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on Sunday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); BAILOUTS (70%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



374 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Unions Face Obstacles In Effort To Reunite

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
The push to reunify the nation's fractured labor movement has run into serious obstacles, labor leaders said, with several saying the effort has only a 50-50 chance of success. 
 The presidents of 12 large unions have held talks since January, when they announced an effort to reunify organized labor, which split in 2005 when seven unions quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 According to several officials at last week's A.F.L.-C.I.O. winter meeting here, union presidents have debated what the focus of a new federation should be, how much each union would pay in dues and what the leadership structure would be -- whether there would be a strong, long-term president or a two-year rotating presidency. 
 ''It's too soon to say whether we're going to succeed or not,'' said John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, a participant in the talks and a major force behind the effort. ''A lot of what we're discussing is similar to what was said before the split, and some of the same issues are being raised. But no real agreement has been arrived at on any of the issues.''
 David E. Bonior, a former House Democratic whip, is coordinating the talks, with April 15 as the goal for an agreement. 
 ''We have an incredible opportunity now with Barack Obama and his leadership to create a better economy and recreate the American dream,'' said Anna Burger, the chairwoman of Change to Win, the federation of breakaway unions, which include the service employees, Teamsters and carpenters. ''The better we can work together on that, the better off we'll all be.''
 Negotiators said there was agreement that a unified federation should focus on politics, public policy and legislative work. Many also agree that the federation should have an arm, which unions could join voluntarily, that helps unions to organize more workers. 
 ''This has a lot of parallels to reforming health care -- there is a lot of agreement at 30,000 feet,'' said Andy Stern, the service employees' president.
 He said he would like to join a unified federation, but it depended on whether certain matters were agreed to. ''I don't think the Change to Win unions feel a need to do something,'' Mr. Stern said.
 Officials from several breakaway unions said they would not want to join the A.F.L.-C.I.O., but rather a new, more dynamic federation that replaces it. But some A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders, angry about the schism, are in no mood to create a new federation or make other changes sought by Mr. Stern or other Change to Win leaders. 
 ''Andy needs to be a man and take his lumps and participate in a unified movement for the greater good of labor,'' said R. Thomas Buffenbarger, president of the International Association of Machinists.
 Union leaders said the National Education Association, the nation's largest union with 3.2 million members, was likely to join a unified federation. Dennis Van Roekel, the N.E.A.'s president, is involved in the talks, but it could take a year for his union's 50 state chapters to ratify the move.''We have a good chance to have a basic outline to create a unified labor movement for the first time ever,'' said Larry Cohen, president of the communications workers' union. ''The N.E.A. was founded more than 100 years ago and has never been an explicit part of the U.S. labor movement.''
 The larger unions want to create a powerful executive committee, and one divisive issue is how much power medium-size and small unions would have. The small unions oppose demands that they be forced to merge into larger unions.
 Also being debated is whether to create a mechanism to nudge past-their-prime union presidents to retire so unions are not stuck with tired, uninspired leaders. One negotiator talked of creating an advisory ''Labor House of Lords'' to encourage older union presidents to step aside.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



375 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: A Web Awash in Liquor Ads, Promoting Moderation

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
WHILE there may not be sufficient data to indicate whether the economy is driving people to drink, major marketers of alcoholic beverages are maintaining or even stepping up campaigns to encourage drinking in moderation.
 Advertising about drinking responsibly has been appearing for decades. One notable effort -- ''Know when to say when'' -- was introduced by Anheuser-Busch in 1982, when the economy was mired in recession.
 Responsibility campaigns are considered an effective counterweight to activists who seek to limit or ban advertising for beer, wine and liquor. Now, a best-selling vodka brand is significantly increasing the digital presence of its moderation messages by devoting a section of its Web site to helping drinkers ''enjoy with Absolut responsibility.'' 
 The moderation messages for Absolut are expected to go live Monday at absolut.com/recognizethemoment. ''Recognize the moment'' is also the theme of the campaign, referring to that moment, as an introductory page explains, when you choose to ''say yes to drinking in a responsible way.''
 The material online will include a feature called Text the Moment, enabling cellphone users to send themselves text messages intended to reinforce a moderation mode.
 Among the other contents will be a collection of video clips, featuring consumers talking about drinking responsibly; links to the Web sites of organizations like the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism; a list of the guidelines that Absolut follows in developing ad campaigns; and information under the headline ''Moderation Is Key,'' which includes descriptions of the effects of alcohol and ways to determine ''what the experts consider to be a moderate level of drinking'' for men and women.
 There are also plans to start a Recognize the Moment page on Facebook as well as placing so-called social ads on facebook.com to promote the campaign. In both instances, access will be limited to Facebook users who are of legal drinking age.
 ''Planning to celebrate?'' a proposed ad on Facebook asks. ''Don't want to go overboard? Check out tips and tools from Absolut vodka to help you drink responsibly.''
 The idea is to find ''new methods to talk to our consumers in a relevant way,'' said Tim Murphy, vice president for marketing at Absolut vodka at Pernod Ricard USA in New York. The parent, Pernod Ricard, acquired the Absolut brand last year when it bought the Swedish distiller V&S Vin & Sprit for almost $9 billion.
 At the same time, ''we want to deliver those relevant messages in an Absolut way,'' Mr. Murphy said, defining that as ''using a language consumers can relate to, talking to them almost like a friend, staying away from being too preachy.''
 That approach can be found throughout the Web pages. For example, the directions to Text the Moment describe the feature in a low-key way: ''It may be just the reminder you need to remember to order water throughout the evening or to hold off on dialing your ex at 2 o'clock in the morning.''
 The material about the Recognize the Moment page on Facebook advises computer users to ''be sure to 'poke' your friends'' because ''we can all benefit from a gentle reminder to think before we drink.''
 And an introduction to the campaign takes this conversational tack: ''You've been there. We've been there. Everyone's been there. It's that part of the evening when the bartender wants to know if you'd like another drink. Or when you have to answer the question, 'Are you O.K. to get home?' ''
 There is also material that is more serious. For instance, a footnote in a discussion of moderation ends bluntly, ''If you have a drinking problem, seek professional help.''
 The campaign represents ''a real opportunity to focus on affecting change in behavior,'' said Jennifer Ryan, senior vice president at Porter Novelli in New York, an Omnicom Group agency that created it for Absolut.
 ''Rather than shaking a finger and saying, 'No, you shouldn't do this' or 'No, you shouldn't do that,' we want to give people the tools to make their own decisions,'' she added. 
 The campaign has been in development since 2006, Ms. Ryan said, as Porter Novelli worked to build support among Absolut employees, retailers and bartenders as well as consumers. Porter Novelli worked on the text-message feature with Telescope, an agency in Los Angeles that specializes in mobile marketing.
 A critic of the marketing of alcoholic beverages had some -- but not many -- positive comments about the campaign.
 ''It's a nice effort that looks good on its face,'' said George A. Hacker, director for the Alcohol Policies Project at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a group in Washington that has long sought to curb the promotion of beer, wine and liquor. ''But it's fluff when it comes to the real need for information on the potential down sides of alcohol consumption,'' Mr. Hacker said.
 After the Text the Moment feature was described to Mr. Hacker, he said, laughing, that he would prefer that Absolut ''program iPhones so you get an electric shock when you take that third drink -- or better yet, have them program bartenders' iPhones to shock them not to serve that third drink.''
 By living online, Mr. Hacker said, the campaign ''is part of the alcohol beverage industry's trolling for users'' because ''the Internet is largely a youth-oriented phenomenon.''
 He wondered whether the timing of the campaign's introduction was intended ''to take the edge off Absolut's television advertising.''
 The reference was to an Absolut commercial that appeared last month during the Grammy Awards on CBS stations in 15 markets. It was the first liquor commercial in more than 60 years in a prime-time program on stations owned by CBS.
 Ms. Ryan and Mr. Murphy said there was no connection between the campaign and the commercial. The commercial ''is not running anymore,'' Mr. Murphy said, as Pernod Ricard USA moves on to another product initiative for Absolut, introducing a 10th flavored variety of the brand, Absolut Mango. 
 The total budget for the campaign is estimated at less than $500,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Absolut vodka is using its Web site to promote good sense in drinking. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); DISTILLERIES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%)

COMPANY: PERNOD RICARD SA (62%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); V & S VIN & SPRIT AB (51%); PERNOD RICARD USA (51%)

TICKER: RI (PAR) (62%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (62%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (62%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (51%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



376 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Nation's Schools: Spend Fast, Keep Receipts

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Arne Duncan, the secretary of education, sent a message to the nation's school officials last week: Heads up! We'll be sending you billions of dollars by month's end. Spend the money quickly but wisely. And keep receipts; we'll be asking. 
 The message, which went out Friday in documents e-mailed to governors, state education commissioners and thousands of school superintendents, provided the first broad guidelines for how the Education Department intends to channel $100 billion to the nation's 14,000 school districts over the next few months. The expenditure is part of the Obama administration's economic stimulus package.
 Some $44 billion will be made available to states before the end of this month, Mr. Duncan said, in the hope that layoffs can be averted. Hundreds of thousands of job losses in schools had been projected for the fall because of growing state budget deficits caused by a steep drop in tax revenues.
 More school stimulus money will be distributed in the spring through the fall, the documents said, after states apply for the financing and provide Congressionally mandated ''assurances'' to Mr. Duncan that they are complying with federal education laws.
 ''Spend funds quickly to save and create jobs,'' a five-page guidance document sent to the education officials said. It also urged educators to use the money in the stimulus package, known as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, in ways that ''improve school achievement through school improvement and reform.'' It also warned them to keep records of expenditures.
 The guidance admonished educators to spend the stimulus money, which is temporary, in ways that would minimize the dislocation that could follow when it ran out in two years. Some department officials are describing the exhaustion of the stimulus money in two years as a ''cliff'' over which school districts could plunge if they do not spend the money wisely.
 The money to be made available to states this month includes $5 billion in Title I financing, for disadvantaged students; about $6 billion for disabled students; and about $33 billion in fiscal stabilization money, which governors are to use to replenish education programs slashed in recent years and to prevent cuts to state education budgets for the coming school year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



377 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: On the Origin of Bankers' Giant Bonuses

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
If you're still having trouble understanding big-time bankers' huge paychecks -- and who isn't? -- try thinking of the problem in more primitive terms. Like, say, the lives of elephant seals.
 Bull seals put on flab for competitive reasons: the bigger the bull, the greater its chances of thrashing other males on the beach to win a harem of cows. 
 The problem is that while each bull may be happy with his success, the competitive dynamic has a cost to elephant seal society. When the fattest seals always win, they will be more successful in passing their genes to the next generation --which will lead to a fatter population over time. 
 Elephant seal bulls can weigh 8,000 pounds. As the Cornell economist Robert Frank has pointed out, the social costs come clear when you consider that at 8,000 pounds it is pretty difficult to out-swim a great white shark.
 Which brings us back to Wall Street. There are competing hypotheses about why top bankers and corporate chief executives are paid so much. Some researchers suggest a form of theft, exercised by coaxing, cajoling or browbeating pliant boards of directors to hand over more and more company money.
 Bankers prefer the elephant seal theory: the humongous bonus packages are essential to attract top executives who otherwise would be nabbed by a rival. Bailed-out bankers grumble that the pay caps imposed by the Obama administration will allow better-financed hedge funds to swoop down and poach the best from their ranks.
 This theory of capitalist evolution conveniently omits the part about the social costs. It is doubtful whether this executive superstar system adds any value to firms. 
 One study by Ulrike Malmendier of Berkeley and Geoffrey Tate of U.C.L.A. suggested that when C.E.O.'s are anointed as superstars by the media, shareholders suffer: C.E.O. performance declines relative to what it was before and to that of other C.E.O.'s. They start writing books, serving on boards and doing more work outside the company. And they become more active in tinkering with corporate earnings. Of course, the C.E.O.'s themselves get a raise. 
 Today we are all bearing the costs of bankers' lopsided remuneration. The arms race in financial-sector pay that started with financial deregulation in the 1980s has grossly distorted economic incentives. Not only did handsomely compensated financiers engineer the dot-com bubble and the housing crisis, but bankers' pay is reshaping the economy and society in other perilous ways.
 Between 1980 and last year, the financial industry's share of the nation's corporate profits rose from 19 percent to 30 percent, government figures show. Wages followed. Research by the economists Thomas Philippon of New York University and Ariell Reshef of the University of Virginia found average remuneration in the financial industry rose from about par with wages in the non-farm private sector in 1980 to about 1.7 times today. 
 In the face of such odds, more of the nation's pool of talented students decided there was no point in becoming a doctor or an engineer, when one could be a banker. In a recent research paper, the Harvard economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz reported that the share of Harvard graduates who took jobs in finance increased from 5 percent of the 1970 class to 15 percent of the 1990 class. The share going into law and medicine fell from 39 percent to 30 percent.
 Perhaps the current crisis will end this trend. Finance is unlikely to recover quickly from this debacle, which has caused shares in financial companies to slide almost 60 percent in the last year. That means pay packages might return to earth, where the rest of us live. Banks could start competing for talent on the scale of hundreds of thousands of dollars, rather than in the millions.
 Elephant seals don't know that they would reduce their odds of becoming lunch if they all cut their tonnage by half -- a move that would leave the competitive field unaltered. But people are smarter, we hope, and can understand that if we rein in all bankers' pay we might be able to protect society from the fallout of their mating habits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (91%); MAMMALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONUS PAY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); BEACHES (71%); BAILOUTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



378 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: GM Canada Offers Pact That Avoids Wage Cuts

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
The Canadian Auto Workers union agreed to a series of contract concessions with General Motors of Canada on Sunday in a deal that avoided reductions to base salaries or pension benefits.
 The agreement, to be voted on by union members later this week, came after three days of talks. Ken Lewenza, the union's president, told a midday news conference that the cost savings from the plan were still being calculated.
 ''At 5:30 this morning, General Motors had stated to us that we have maintained our Canadian advantage for investment in Canada,'' Mr. Lewenza said. ''That's all that's important to us.'' 
 G.M.'s Canadian unit, which is based east of Toronto in Oshawa, Ontario, said in a brief statement that the agreement would bring ''labor costs to much more competitive levels and help ensure the company's long-term viability.'' 
 The company, which is seeking about $6 billion in assistance from Canada, did not respond to questions about the anticipated size of the savings. 
 The Conservative government said that it would provide financial aid to G.M. and Chrysler Canada only if the union agreed to match the labor costs at plants operated by Toyota and Honda in Canada. As in the United States, there has been considerable debate about the differences in labor costs between the Japanese- and American-owned companies.
 The savings at G.M. Canada, whatever the amount, will come from several sources. Increases to pension payments and wage rates to cover inflation have been suspended until June 2012, and an additional payment of 1,700 Canadian dollars, or $1,321, a year will be eliminated. Workers will also receive one less week of paid vacation a year. 
 The most significant changes appear to involve health care. The bulk of the health care costs of Canadian workers are covered by government programs. But General Motors, like many employers, covers expenses that are outside the state system, including dental, eyeglasses and prescription drugs for workers under the age of 65.
 Under the proposed agreement, workers will contribute 30 Canadian dollars ($23.31) a month toward the benefits. Retirees over 65 will pay half that amount.
 While it is not part of the agreement, the recent decline of the Canadian dollar appeared to be a factor that allowed the union to avoid wage cuts. In the last year, the Canadian dollar has fallen from about parity to a roughly 25 percent discount relative to the United States dollar.
 During the news conference, Jim Stanford, the union's chief economist, acknowledged that if the Canadian currency returned to par, labor costs at Canadian plants would exceed those in the United States. However, he also dismissed the possibility of Canadian dollar strengthening to that extent by September 2012, when the proposed agreement would expire.
 If approved by the 10,000 unionized G.M. workers in Canada, the contract will extend an agreement reached about a year ago for another 12 months. The union claimed that the earlier contract collectively reduced Canadian labor costs at G.M., Ford and Chrysler by about 900 million Canadian dollars, or $699 million. 
 Mr. Lewenza urged the governments of Canada and Ontario to swiftly provide aid to General Motors once the contract is approved. ''We believe we can get the rumors of bankruptcy off the table once and for all,'' he said.
 Officials at both levels of government, which have set the end of the month as a deadline for their negotiations with the automakers, welcomed the settlement. 
 Mr. Lewenza said last week that the union would also negotiate new agreements with the Canadian units of Chrysler and Ford. As is the case in the United States, Ford is not looking for government assistance in Canada.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hydrogen fuel-cell engines in G.M.'s plant in Ontario. G.M. deflected questions on how much the new contract would save it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN AUSTEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ken Lewenza, head of the Canadian Auto Workers. The union's members will vote on the agreement this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CURRENCIES (88%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); APPROVALS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS OF CANADA LTD (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



379 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
 Anybody who wants a simple economic explanation of why our major banks are in distress from holding sour loans may be interested in the following conversation.
 I called the company in Florida holding my home equity loan with a routine question. Before answering, the person on the other end dutifully took down my loan number, Social Security number, etc., and then asked me to verify my address. I did so.
 She replied: ''I see no such city as New York in our records, sir.'' 
 To my amazed ''What!'' she said, ''New York is the state listed for your loan, sir.'' I explained that New York City was in New York State.
 Again: ''I see no such city, sir. I have you listed as living in Manhattan.'' I patiently explained that Manhattan was a borough of New York City.
 ''Thank you, sir; now what was your question about your loan?''
 Irwin Wall
 Dear Diary:
 A woman in her early 20s overheard talking on a cellphone on West 75th Street between Columbus and Amsterdam:
 ''Hey Dad. ... I'm on your old block. What was your number? ... Oh, I see your building. Yeah, the facade is plain. ... The number plate? ... Wooden? ... Yes, it's there. ... You made that! In the '70s? Well that's cool.''
 Katherine Humphrey
 SNOWMEN
 Only
 City
 Snowmen
 Have
 Sabrett
 Noses
 Clare Muller
 Dear Diary:
 A few weeks ago, a friend of mine was staying in the city at another friend's house on 79th and First. I told her that we were going to meet in Union Square, and that she should go to 77th and Lex and take the 6 (and I quote) ''southbound'' right to 14th Street.
 Upon arriving at Union, she told me that she had gotten to the station and had the following conversation with another traveler (clearly a New Yorker):
 Friend: ''Excuse me, sir, is this the southbound train?''
 Man: ''Southbound?''
 Friend: ''Yes, southbound.''
 Man: ''Is that uptown or downtown?''
 Only in New York would a resident know southbound only as downtown!
 Ben Hurwitz
 Dear Diary:
 Our preschool-age daughter is learning how to read. She has an English-Spanish picture book of which she is particularly fond. She came to the word for ''girl,'' and mispronounced its equivalent: ''Nina,'' she read. 
 ''Actually, that is pronounced 'nina,' '' I pointed out. ''That is the Spanish letter 'n' and it is pronounced 'nya.' Like an N and a Y together.'' She thought for a moment, then toddled off and returned with her Yankees baseball cap.
 Lesson learned. And, go N's!
 Jeff Corbin 
 Dear Diary:
 A couple of months ago, I took a cab to a funeral. The driver wished me a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I responded in kind.
 He then asked if I lived with my family, and I told him that I lived alone. He then proceeded to tell me that he lived alone and that he would like to have someone live with him. He asked if I would like to live with him.
 I said no, thank you. He then replied that he would take very good care of me. I thanked him and said no.
 He proceeded to ask if I would like his telephone number. Again, I said no. As I paid him, he said, ''Are you sure you don't want my phone number?''
 P.S. I am almost 80. Nice pickup!
 Alice Rothblum 
 Dear Diary:
 On early mornings, the path ringing the Great Lawn in Central Park is densely populated with unleashed dogs and their owners, all busily interacting. Trying to maintain a semblance of discipline amid the canine and human socializing can strain communication between master and dog.
 On a recent outing, I heard someone calling, ''Chester! Chester! Chester!'' first sweetly, then with increasing intensity, and finally, angrily. 
 When no Chester appeared, the frustrated caller tried a new tactic: ''O.K., Chester, I'm leaving. Goodbye. Have a nice life.''
 Henry Sacks 
 Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number; upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished in all media. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); TRAINS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



380 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Regains Control Of Remote Area, for Now

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and PIR ZUBAIR SHAH; Jane Perlez reported from Inayat Kalay, and Pir Zubair Shah from Peshawar, Pakistan.

DATELINE: INAYAT KALAY, Pakistan 

 BODY:
After a six-month campaign, the Pakistani military is claiming victory over the Taliban in Bajaur, a northern sliver of the tribal areas, saying the militants have suffered heavy losses and have been pushed over the border into Afghanistan.
 As evidence, the military this month showed off the once-busy, mile-long marketplace here, captured from the militants and pulverized to bits of concrete and mounds of dust. A tank was still parked in the remains of a shop.
 ''The resistance has been broken down. We control the roads,'' said Maj. Gen. Tariq Khan, the inspector general of the Frontier Corps, the paramilitary force responsible for security in the tribal regions. ''They have lost.''
 Already, Pakistani officials are hailing Bajaur as a landmark turn in the battle against Islamic militants and are trying to persuade the 300,000 people displaced by the fighting here to return, aided by a $19 million program financed by the United States. 
 But beyond the bounds of a tightly guarded tour of Bajaur for reporters, the larger battle against the Taliban and Al Qaeda, whose fighters are deeply entrenched across northwestern Pakistan, seems unsettled. 
 Residents and Western military experts, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the political situation, said it was likely that rather than being finally uprooted from this slice of Bajaur and a nearby stronghold in Loe Sam, the bulk of the Taliban forces had retreated to mountain enclaves, waiting to return, as they have so often, when the military eases off. 
 At the same time, a recent truce between the Pakistani government and Taliban forces who have seized the Swat Valley, an area just east of here, has called into question the military's ability and the government's willingness to take on the militants with finality. 
 The heavy bombardment and troop concentration, cited by the military as its winning formula here, have alienated much of the population, according to interviews with residents and refugees from this area. The joint Pakistani and American plan to keep this area free of the Taliban hinges on meeting the tough challenge of rapidly winning the support of these displaced people. 
 ''If the government doesn't build and attract tribesmen back quickly, and do things to put money in their pockets, there is every likelihood of a reversion to the militants,'' said Khalid Aziz, a former chief secretary of the North-West Frontier Province, who is working on the Pakistani-American effort for Bajaur.
 Among other things, he said, the displaced need agricultural help.
 ''The economy doesn't exist now,'' he said.
 Under the joint program to bring refugees back here, essential services like electricity and water would be repaired, damaged homes rebuilt, and cash-for-work programs started, the representative of the federal government in Bajaur, Shafirullah Wazir, said. The plan envisions creating a new civilian volunteer force, backed by the paramilitary Frontier Corps, to help keep order, an American official said. 
 But many obstacles must be overcome, including convincing disaffected tribal elders who have been singled out by the Taliban and abandoned by the government that it is in their interest to return, the officials said.
 One of them is Idrees Khan, a tribal elder from Inayat Kalay who with his four brothers owns most of the properties in the ruined marketplace. He said he had been asked by the government to return now that the military campaign was over. But now, he said, he has conditions.
 A natural ally of the government, whose duty as a tribal leader is to act as a broker between the militants and the authorities, Mr. Khan said he left Inayat Kalay two months ago when it was clear that the military was planning to attack.
 He left with bad feelings and remains bitter, he said. The family tried under tremendous odds to stave off the Taliban in December, he said. When the militants attacked one of their houses near the market and his brother called for help, the army showed up late and was of little help, he said. A helicopter gunship came after the Taliban had fled, but it shot at the family house anyway, severely damaging it, he said.
 ''The government betrayed my brother,'' he said in an interview in Peshawar, the capital of the North-West Frontier Province.
 ''We want compensation for the structures that have been demolished,'' Mr. Khan said, ''and we want accountability from the government and the Taliban.''
 Despite the government's assurances, many refugees said they were not convinced that it was safe to return. 
 In a camp for the displaced near Peshawar, families from Bajaur complained that they had received no offers of aid from the government. Others said they had little information. Several residents of Inayat Kalay said they were nervous about security because they had tried to raise a volunteer army against the Taliban last fall, but had received inadequate backing from the authorities. 
 ''What's going on is very secretive,'' said Nawab Khan, a laborer from Inayat Kalay. ''It's like being in the dark where you can't see.'' 
 He said he was reluctant to return, in part because he had no confidence in the Pakistani government. ''When we returned in November they shelled us,'' he said. ''We don't want to repeat that.''
 General Khan, in a briefing of reporters invited by the army to Bajaur, said that 1,600 militants had been killed in the six-month campaign. 
 But residents said they did not believe that claim, and Western military officials said it was impossible to gauge how many Taliban fighters had been killed because the army had not shown any bodies.
 Mr. Khan, the tribal leader, was outraged that the main compound of Fakir Mohammed, a senior Taliban leader in Bajaur, appeared to go completely unscathed. ''Fakir Mohammed is sitting in Damadola,'' Mr. Khan said. ''Why don't they hit his house?''
 General Khan acknowledged that none of the Taliban's top leaders had been killed. He blamed weak intelligence. 
 In Mohmand, the neighboring tribal area to the south of Bajaur, the Pakistani military is also claiming success against the Taliban. 
 The Frontier Corps escorted reporters to Qandharo, a village on flatlands where a boys' high school that served as a military headquarters of Mohmand's Taliban leader, Abdul Wali, was now controlled by the Frontier Corps. An Islamic court run by the Taliban is no longer operating, officers of the Corps said.
 But the day before the reporters' visit, militants shot and killed three Frontier Corps members in Mohmand, and three government security men were killed on patrol when their truck hit a land mine. 
 And on Saturday, in a sign that the militants can still create havoc in Mohmand, 14 paramilitary recruits, known as levies, were killed by the Taliban in the Yaka Ghund area, the authorities said.
 The levies, the most lightly armed of the paramilitary troops in the tribal area, were killed after trying to come to the rescue of a tribal elder whose house had been surrounded by the militants. The Taliban apparently singled out the elder because he had been visited by a senior government official. 
 A doctor from Mohmand, who was interviewed in Peshawar but spoke on condition of anonymity out of concern for his family's safety, said the militants had been weakened in Mohmand and were no longer able to roam freely. Instead of traveling in large groups and convoys of many cars, they must now travel furtively, he said. 
 But he said the militants were regrouping in the mountains around the villages of Mitai and Chinarai. In Mitai, a considerable number of Arab men, with their wives and children, recently arrived, he said.
 Even if the military victory in Bajaur and Mohmand holds, some Pakistani and American officials cautioned that it might not mean much in the larger picture. Though strategically placed, they are relatively small pockets of the tribal belt, with relatively educated populations and benign terrain. Much tougher challenges would face the Pakistani military, the officials said, if it decided to take on the harsh territory and entrenched Taliban and Qaeda forces in South and North Waziristan. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tribal elders in the Bajaur district attended a Feb. 28 ceremony, above, to mark acceptance of the Pakistani military. A child, at left, was with women waiting to be registered on Jan. 30 at a camp near Peshawar for the displaced. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (88%); AL-QAEDA (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TERRORISM (78%); REFUGEES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RELIGION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



381 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 502 words

 BODY:
WORRIES IN DOLLAR'S RISE As the global economy grapples with a lack of confidence and capital, money is flowing to United States government bonds, a condition that appears to be worsening the crisis elsewhere. 
 SIX WEEKS AT TREASURY In the six weeks since Timothy F. Geithner took over as Treasury secretary, he and a skeleton crew of unofficial senior advisers have been racing to shape the country's financial future. [B1.]
 BUSY DAYS AT CNBC CNBC, the financial news network, is blurring punditry with reporting during the downturn, and it is jokingly called ''the recession network'' within the halls of its headquarters in New Jersey. [B1.]
 GRIM GLOBAL FORECAST While not yet providing a specific estimate, the World Bank predicted that the global economy and the volume of global trade would both shrink this year for the first time since World War II. [B1.]
 CANADIAN AUTO PACT After three days of talks, the Canadian Auto Workers union agreed to contract concessions with General Motors of Canada, to avoid cuts to base salaries or pension benefits. [B3.]
 NBC'S WINNING STREAKS NBC is the ratings leader in the morning and now at night, as the ''Today'' show and the ''Nightly News'' with Brian Williams break away, giving the network a claim to leadership in network news. [B1.]
 SLUGGERS IN 3-D Using a webcam, a new line of baseball cards from Topps, called 3D Live, displays a three-dimensional avatar of a player. [B4.]
 SAVING NEWSPAPERS So far, the newspaper industry has been unwilling or unable to develop a collective response to what appears to be the threat of extinction. It is time to change that. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
 RETURN OF MOVIELINE The editor and writers at Defamer, the Gawker Media site, are working on the reopening of the Movieline Web site, and have turned down the volume. [B6.]
 THE WRONG CURE The Glass-Steagall Act, which banned commercial banks from underwriting securities, is finding new fans. But the law, which was repealed in 1999, would not have stopped the current crisis. Breaking Views. [B2.]
 TRIMS FOR MILITARY When President Obama takes on a weapons contracting system that he says has ''gone amok,'' he will face lawmakers concerned about protecting jobs that such programs provide. [B2.]
 WEB BATTLE AND MORE The online video services Boxee and Hulu continue to tussle; Philips brings LED lighting to Africa; foreign workers in high-tech sectors are going home. Bits. [B4.]
 PRINT-AT-HOME PAPER The MediaNews Group, the nation's fourth-largest newspaper chain, will test a customized, print-at-home newspaper service this summer at The Los Angeles Daily News. [B6.]
 VODKA, RESPONSIBLY Absolut, one of the best-selling vodka brands, is devoting a section of its Web site to helping drinkers ''enjoy with Absolut responsibility.'' Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B7.]
 NET FILTERING AND EUROPE American telecommunications and Internet companies are lobbying lawmakers in Brussels before battles over Internet filtering play out back home. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BONDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING LAW (74%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BASEBALL (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); WRITERS (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (64%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (61%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS OF CANADA LTD (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



382 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: In the Rockaways, Mourning for a Renaissance Unfulfilled

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
It wasn't long ago that the residents and business owners of Beach 116th Street in Queens believed their neighborhood could be the Queens equivalent to Brooklyn's Williamsburg or Long Island's Long Beach -- a place where Manhattanites would spend big salaries on new condominiums decorated with trinkets from local boutiques. It was not that far-fetched: new zoning rules, planned condo projects and attention from city officials made it seem possible.
 Instead, a stretch of Beach 116th Street in Rockaway Park was identified in a recent report as having the highest proportion of abandoned retail storefronts of any shopping district in Queens. The report, by Representative Anthony D. Weiner's office, found that 17 of 40 surveyed stores were empty. 
 Jonathan Gaska, district manager of Queens Community Board 14, which includes the Rockaways, said parts of the block had been ''dying a slow death for years.'' 
 ''The combination of the S.R.O. hotels, the adult home and the economy put a stranglehold on this block,'' he said. ''It's a ghost town.''
 The signs of recession abound. Faded signs rattle in the wind outside vacant stores. Local businesses did not have enough money to string lights along the main strip during the holidays, the first time in more than a decade that has happened. New condos are lingering on the market. And some new retailers are already harboring fears of closing down.
 ''We're definitely not closing yet. But we're going to see what happens in the next year,'' said Beata Moskal, who opened the Lublin Deli on Beach 116th Street in May and has already considered closing. ''People are buying very little.''
 Through the 1950s, Rockaway Park had been a thriving beach community. The neighborhood remains a mix of older Irish-American families and newer immigrants like Ms. Moskal, who came from Poland. But over the decades, tourists and beachgoers went elsewhere, hotels became single-room occupancy buildings, nursing homes proliferated and 99-cent stores replaced more high-end retailers. More recently, even some 99-cent stores have gone out of business.
 When the real estate boom came along five years ago, it looked like the neighborhood would recover. In 2006, the Rockaways had 45 major land sales for a combined $21 million, according to the real estate brokerage Massey Knakal Realty Services. That same year, the Engel Berman Group wrapped up construction of the condo tower Ocean Grande that borders Beach 116th Street. About 500 new condominiums were planned for the area, according to Rose Breslin, a local real estate broker. Hays Ventures, a real estate investment firm and developer, tried to buy up parts of 116th Street.
 As condo developers flooded to the peninsula, the local community board tried to impose some order on the building boom by pushing to rezone about 280 blocks of the peninsula. Along Beach 116th Street, the rezoning eased rules to allow more residential buildings with street-level stores in the area nearest the ocean. But by the time the City Council approved the rezoning, on Aug. 14, 2008, the market had started to change. ''If the recession didn't happen, we probably would have been building,'' said Ms. Breslin of West End Realty. ''116th Street would have been cleaned up.''
 Sean Barnes, a Massey Knakal broker, said that when he called clients with the news that the zoning had passed, they were indifferent. He said that by then, his pool of buyers shrunk from ''hundreds'' to experienced ''professionals.'' 
 As he stood in the dark and chilly confines of The Beach Club, an event space he has been trying to sell since Nov. 1, Mr. Barnes talked about his difficulties making a deal for the building, one of the retail strip's more desirable addresses. He said he received only six offers before the Evenhar Development Corporation, which built a nearby condominium project, the Seavon, agreed to buy it for less than the $4.5 million asking price. The deal is expected to be finalized by May.
 Even in the current economy, some sellers will not lower their asking prices. Kevin Stile, a broker at Bergen Basin Realty, has been trying to sell the Lawrence Hotel across the street from The Beach Club for more than six months. He said that buyers want to pay far less than what the owner wants for the property. While the owner declined to speak for this article, Mr. Stile said he could understand why he would want to hold out for a higher price.
 ''It is prime real estate,'' said Mr. Stile. ''At one point it was going for a lot more.''
 Now the recession is dealing a secondary blow to even the most established businesses on the retail strip. At Brown's Hardware, which has been on Beach 116th Street for more than 40 years, business had slowed because fewer residents are renovating their bathrooms and kitchens, said Noni Ostrow-Signoretti, a co-owner of the store. She also never received all of the new customers she thought would have moved in.
 ''We haven't had the influx of people,'' she said.
 But some businesses are treating the end of the real estate boom as an opportunity to move onto the retail strip at cheaper rents. Liz Smith Breslin shopped for retail space for her store, The Blue Bungalow, in 2007. But as an owner of a start-up business, she could not afford the street's rent and found some space nearby. She recently negotiated a deal on rent on Beach 116th Street and is moving her store in the coming weeks. Ms. Breslin, a longtime resident, is hopeful that customers will come and her neighborhood will hold on.
 ''People still have to buy gifts,'' she said. ''You have to take chances in life and I'm a big, big supporter of my community.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A survey of Beach 116th Street in Queens found that 17 of 40 stores were abandoned. Beata Moskal, left, opened the Lublin Deli in May and said that she had already considered closing.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); BEACHES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (85%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITIES (71%); IMMIGRATION (61%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



383 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Leo Burnett USA, Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe, was awarded two assignments. Burnett, along with Seed Strategy, Florence, Ky., was named to create campaigns for Silk soy milk, sold by WhiteWave Foods, Boulder, Colo., a division of Dean Foods. The assignment, with spending estimated at more than $30 million, had most recently been handled by Berlin Cameron United, New York, part of the United division of WPP. Also, Burnett and a sibling, Arc USA, were selected as marketing consultants to the American Bar Association, Chicago. Spending has not been determined. 
 White Castle System, Columbus, Ohio, chose Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group, to handle its account, with spending estimated at $15 million to $20 million. The account had been divided between two units of the Team Detroit division of WPP: JWT, for the creative assignment, and Mindshare, for the media planning and buying.
 Buell Motorcycle Company, East Troy, Wis., part of Harley-Davidson, named Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami and Boulder, Colo., as its advertising agency of record. The previous agency, Laughlin/Constable, Chicago and Milwaukee, had created campaigns for Buell for the last 14 years. Spending was estimated at $1 million.
 People
 The New York operation of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP, named separate leaders for advertising and direct marketing as part of a reorganization. Simon Pearce, worldwide managing director on the American Express account, will retain those duties as he adds the title of managing director for Ogilvy & Mather Advertising. Harvey Kipnis, chief growth officer for the Ogilvy North American operations, becomes managing director for OgilvyOne, the direct marketing unit. They will report to Carla Hendra, chairwoman at Ogilvy New York and chief executive at Ogilvy North America.
 Steven Feuling joined Carat, New York, part of the Aegis Group, in a new post, executive vice president and chief client development officer. He had been vice president for demand strategy and category development officer at Yahoo.
 John Condon, chief creative officer at Leo Burnett North America, Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe, is leaving the agency after working there more than 20 years. A search for a successor is under way. 
 Paul Gardner joined TippingSprung, New York, as partner and creative director, a new post. He had been creative director at FutureBrand, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Miscellany
 CRT/tanaka, Richmond, Va., and New York, acquired Lewis & Neale, New York, which will operate as an autonomous unit of CRT/tanaka. Financial terms were not disclosed. Anita Fial will continue as president at Lewis & Neale, which specializes in public relations for food, beverage and nutrition companies.
 The George P. Johnson Company, Auburn Hills, Mich., formalized a partnership with the Spinifex Group, Sydney, Australia, and Los Angeles, by acquiring a minority stake in Spinifex. Financial terms were not disclosed.
 Ogilvy North America, New York, part of the Ogilvy & Mather division of WPP, is starting a recession marketing practice. The practice comes after the agency put up a Web site devoted to the economy (ogilvyonrecession.com).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); DIRECT MARKETING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (79%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); MOTORCYCLES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); NUTRITION (50%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (95%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (92%); WPP PLC (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (69%); BUELL MOTORCYCLE CO LLC (69%); AEGIS GROUP PLC (65%); GEORGE P JOHNSON CO INC (60%); WHITEWAVE FOODS CO (58%); DEAN FOODS CO (58%); WHITE CASTLE SYSTEM INC (57%); ZIMMERMAN ADVERTISING LLC (57%); JWT (56%); FUTUREBRAND (55%); OGILVY & MATHER ADVERTISING (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (57%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (95%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); AGS (LSE) (65%); WWAV (NYSE) (58%); DF (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (69%); NAICS424490 OTHER GROCERY & RELATED PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311512 CREAMERY BUTTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (51%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (50%) COLORADO, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); AUSTRALIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



384 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW 'WRAP YOUR TROUBLES IN DREAMS'; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: If Banks Fail in Yonkers: Songs for the Meltdown

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Meet the new fun couple on the cabaret block; you may have known them when they were single. 
 Eric Comstock, singer, pianist, aesthetic heir of Bobby Short and droll walking reference book of traditional American pop-jazz, was the brains behind the successful Off Broadway revue ''Our Sinatra.'' His comely wife, Barbara Fasano, who bears a distant vocal resemblance to Lena Horne, is best known for her Harold Arlen album, ''Written in the Stars.'' 
 Their first extended engagement together, ''Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams,'' is a friendly housewarming at the Metropolitan Room in which they go out of their way to cheer up neighbors facing foreclosure on their cozy cottages. 
 The show reminds you that there is a song to suit any situation, even a financial meltdown. If Ira Gershwin's lyrics for ''Who Cares?'' don't offer expert accounting advice, they suggest that a cheerful attitude toward looming bankruptcy can help dissipate panic: ''Who cares what banks fail in Yonkers/Long as you've got a kiss that conquers?'' That giddy, optimistic love song is joined to Stephen Sondheim's hyperbolic romantic pitch ''You're Gonna Love Tomorrow,'' a song to which Mr. Comstock imparts a faintly ominous undertone -- the narrator is a little too eager to make the sale.
 Conceptually this smart and amusing show follows an arc that begins with fantasy and denial (''Use Your Imagination,'' ''Not a Care in the World''), slips momentarily into despair (''Brother, Where Are You?,'' ''Remember My Forgotten Man''), then after several tangents including a trip to Brazil (''You Don't Have to Know the Language,'' ''A Rainy Night in Rio'') returns to face grim reality with renewed determination and a restored sense of values. 
 As the jaunty, winking '30s jazz song ''A Hundred Years From Today'' puts it: 
 And why crave a penthouse that's fit for a queen You're nearer heaven on Mamma Earth's green If you had millions what would they all mean One hundred years from today.
 ''Nowadays,'' a Kander and Ebb song from ''Chicago,'' gives the same live-in-the-moment message an edge of desperation: ''men everywhere, jazz everywhere, booze everywhere, life everywhere, joy everywhere, nowadays.''
 This show, in which Mr. Comstock and Ms. Fasano are accompanied by Sean Smith on bass, ends with ''Ain't We Got Fun,'' an early '20s salute to domestic canoodling as the ultimate panacea: ''Not much money, oh but honey, ain't we got fun?''
 Along with that other swinging cabaret couple, John Pizzarelli and Jessica Molaskey, who live just down the block, Mr. Comstock and Ms. Fasano are turning the neighborhood into a hotbed of pleasure. Is this the new Peyton Place?
 ''Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams'' runs through Sunday at the Metropolitan Room, 34 West 22nd Street, Flatiron district; (212) 206-0440, metropolitanroom.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams: Barbara Fasano and Eric Comstock, with Sean Smith on bass, performing at the Metropolitan Room.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SALES & SELLING (72%); FORECLOSURE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (77%); EARTH (52%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



385 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Transit Use Hit Five-Decade High in 2008 as Gas Prices Rose

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
More people rode the nation's public buses, subways and commuter trains last year than in any year since 1956, when the federal government created the Interstate highway system, according to a report by a transit association. 
 Americans took nearly 10.7 billion rides on public transportation in 2008, a 4 percent increase over the previous year, according to the report, by the American Public Transportation Association, a nonprofit organization that represents transit systems. The report was to be released on Monday in Washington at the association's annual conference.
 Use of public transportation in the United States has risen 38 percent since 1995, the report said.
 Ridership surged after gasoline prices hit $4 a gallon last summer and held steady in the fall after gas prices fell, the report found. But few experts expect the growth to continue this year, in part because transit systems across the country are raising fares and cutting service as the tax revenue they rely on plummets during the recession.
 But for transit operators, last year's mark was something to savor. It was the most trips on public transit since 1956, when Elvis Presley released ''Heartbreak Hotel,'' Soviet tanks quashed an uprising in Hungary, and Congress passed the Federal-Aid Highway Act, which created the Interstate highway system and lured commuters to trade in their tokens and bus tickets for car keys. 
 Transit officials were especially heartened that Americans continued to turn to public transportation in the last quarter of the year, even after gas prices dropped. 
 ''You would normally have expected with lower gas prices, a declining economy and rapidly growing unemployment that transit ridership would have been down,'' said William W. Millar, the transportation association's president. ''It appears that many of those people, once they tried public transit, found that it suited their needs.''
 Ridership was up on all modes of public transportation in 2008; it grew on subways by 3.5 percent, on buses by 3.9 percent and on commuter rail by 4.7 percent. Light-rail use increased by 8.3 percent, spurred in part by a new system in Charlotte, N.C., and growth in New Orleans, which is still recovering from Hurricane Katrina.
 But some systems that raised fares last year, including those in Houston and Cincinnati, lost riders, which could be an ominous sign for the many systems that are raising fares and cutting service this year. 
 Although the federal stimulus law included $8.4 billion to help transit systems pay for construction, repairs and new train cars and buses, the money cannot, for the most part, be used to pay for operating expenses like salaries. So some systems are cutting routes, laying off workers and raising fares.
 Now many transit advocates, who have long said that transit gets shortchanged by a federal government that devotes far more money to highways, are turning their attention to Congress, which could pass a new transportation bill as early as this fall.
 David Goldberg, a spokesman for Transportation for America, a coalition of groups pushing for an overhaul of transportation policy, said lawmakers should take note of the higher ridership.
 ''This is the leading edge,'' Mr. Goldberg said, ''of a continuing surge in demand for public transportation and more walkable neighborhoods as the population ages, convenience and access become more critical and gas prices remain volatile.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The San Francisco subway. Riders stayed with the nation's transit systems even after fuel prices fell in the second half of last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (92%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TRAINS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (70%); HURRICANES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); HUNGARY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



386 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.20 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.38 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.10 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 Pennsylvania, $300 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 WEDNESDAY
 Clark County Water Reclamation District A, Nev., $135 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Clark County Water Reclamation District B, Nev., $125 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, $100 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Seattle, Wash., $99.9 million of debt securities. Competitive. 
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 City of Charleston, S.C., $83 million of water and sewer refinancing revenue bonds. Banc of America Securities.
 City of Lubbock, Tex., Tax and Waterworks System Surplus, $58.6 million of certificates of obligation. Morgan Keegan. 
 Cumberland, N.C., $110 million of certificates of participation. Banc of America Securities.
 District of Columbia Personal Income Tax, $445 million of secured revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Frederick, Md., $121 million of fixed rate bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Indiana Finance Authority Deaconess Hospital Obligated Group, $56 million of hospital revenue bonds. Banc of America Securities.
 Maryland Economic Development Corporation, $109 million of pollution control revenue refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley. 
 Miami-Dade County, Fla., $203.8 million of general obligation bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation, $242 million of pit revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Ohio Hospital, $110 million of revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Banc of America Securities.
 Oregon Department of Transportation, $350 million of highway user tax revenue bonds. Banc of America Securities.
 Rhode Island Convention Center Authority, $72 million of refinancing revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 School District of Sarasota County, Fla., $74.1 million of certificates of participation. RBC Capital Markets.
 Shelby County, Tenn., $235 million of general obligation public improvement and school refinancing bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 State of California Department of Water Resources Valley Project, $287 million of water system revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 State of Ohio Higher Educational Facility, $76 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 The Regents of the University of California, $800 million of general revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
 Town of Oak Island, N.C., $50.3 million of enterprise system revenue bonds. BB&T Capital Markets.
 University of Pittsburgh of the Commonwealth System of Higher Education, $435 million of refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
 Vanderbilt University, Tenn., $330 million of university refinancing bonds. Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (86%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); WATER QUALITY (74%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); INCOME TAX (65%); HOSPITALS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (66%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (79%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); CUMBERLAND, MD, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



387 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: A Time for Tontines

BYLINE: By TOM BAKER and PETER SIEGELMAN. 
Tom Baker, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, is the author of ''The Medical Malpractice Myth.'' Peter Siegelman is a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law.

 BODY:
MANY young Americans don't have health insurance, and not necessarily because they can't afford it. Some just don't want to invest good money in health care that they may never need. This creates tremendous burdens for the individuals who do end up having medical problems, as well as for the taxpayers who cover their visits to the emergency room. Around a third of all uninsured adults below retirement age in the United States are 19 to 29 years old. How can we get insurance to reach these young ''invincibles''? 
 Creating universal health insurance or forcing businesses to insure their employees' grown children are costly solutions. Much better would be to design a product that these young invincibles would be willing to pay for. We suggest an old solution: the tontine, which is health insurance that pays a cash bonus to those who are ultimately right in their belief that they did not really need insurance. 
 Here's how it would work. In the simplest arrangement, insurance companies would award the bonus to policy holders whose health care costs were below a certain level over five years, excluding preventive care. The program must be designed so that participants don't forgo truly needed care in order to stay eligible for the bonus. If a participant fell ill during a five-year period, for example, they could still lock in a bonus for the years in which they were healthy. There could be very low co-payments for office visits and tests, and participants might have to follow their doctor's advice to remain eligible for the bonus. 
 Sadly, this kind of insurance isn't on the table, due to the failure of tontine life insurance in the late 19th century (''tontine,'' by the way, derives from the name of the Italian banker who invented the system). Tontine life insurance paid a deferred dividend to policy holders who survived and faithfully paid their insurance premiums for a defined period, usually 20 years. 
 Things went sour when tontine life insurance companies became economic titans, buying and selling stocks on a scale that would make Warren Buffett blush. Unfortunately their leaders did not show Mr. Buffett's personal restraint. Their extravagance and influence-peddling prompted a political backlash that led to laws in 1906 reorganizing the insurance business and regulating its management of surplus funds.
 The life insurance tontine experience seem to make health insurers leery of trying such an experiment again. But they shouldn't be. Health insurance tontines would not produce the same level of corrupting fortunes. Young people don't have as much money to pour into health tontines as the older people who bought the life tontines. Furthermore, insurers would build up the funds for the bonuses over only five years, as opposed to 20. 
 There are of course many reasons why everyone should buy insurance. But those reasons don't appeal to the young invincibles, with their exaggerated optimism about their health. The beauty of the tontine feature is that it frames the health insurance purchase as a smart investment rather than a way to spend money for something the customer doesn't think he needs. While 19th-century insurers may have made some poor choices, they understood aspects of human nature that today's industry seems to have forgotten. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



388 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Laurentiu Ardelean joined BarkleyREI, Kansas City, Mo., part of Barkley, as creative director. He succeeds Alina Constantinescu, who left to return to New York, the agency said. Mr. Ardelean had been an art director and ''senior ideator'' at the Bloomfield Hills, Mich., office of Organic, part of the Omnicom Group.
 Pete Aronson, a founding partner at Generate, Los Angeles, was named president at Generate Studios, overseeing the development and production of film, television and digital content.
 Erica Boeke and Daniella Wells joined Wired magazine, New York, part of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications. Ms. Boeke, who becomes executive director for creative development, succeeds Kara Rosen, who joined Conde Nast Traveler as creative services director. Ms. Boeke had been executive director for creative services and marketing at another Conde Nast magazine, Gourmet. Ms. Wells, who becomes associate publisher for marketing at Wired, succeeds Susan Harrington, who joined Conde Nast Traveler as associate publisher for marketing and creative services. Ms. Wells had been associate publisher for marketing and creative services at yet another Conde Nast magazine, The New Yorker. 
 Pierre Bouvard, president for sales and marketing at Arbitron, New York, was named to a new post, executive vice president for sales, as part of a reorganization. In a related change, Owen Charlebois, president for technology, research and development, is leaving, the company said, to pursue new opportunities. In another aspect of the reorganization, Arbitron is creating three executive vice president posts, to handle duties like business development and marketing; the company said it was recruiting to fill those posts.
 Andrea DiNunzio joined the Zeno Corporation, Houston, as senior vice president for global marketing. She succeeds Lee Stranathan, who is now senior vice president and president for international business. Ms. DiNunzio had most recently been chief marketing officer at Laura Mercier, Stafford, Tex.
 Amber Dunn, senior vice president for sales at Allrecipes.com, New York, part of the Reader's Digest Association, was named vice president for affinity digital ad sales for a new centralized digital ad sales team, Digital Feast (Food and Entertaining Advertising Sales Team), overseeing Allrecipes.com, Tasteofhome.com and Rachealraymag.com. The new team will be composed of the sales staff for Allrecipes.com and Nancy Paulin, who had been responsible for Tasteofhome.com.
 Fathead, Livonia, Mich., selected Cenergy, East Aurora, N.Y., to provide services on a project basis like event marketing and interactive work to help introduce baseball versions of Fathead Tradeables, stickers that bear images of players and team logos.
 Joe Gallagher joined BBE, New York, formerly Broadband Enterprises, as executive vice president for sales, a new post. He had most recently been vice president for multimedia sales at The Wall Street Journal, New York, part of the Dow Jones & Company division of the News Corporation. 
 Andrew Graff, chief executive at Allen & Gerritsen, Watertown, Mass., was named chairman of the Ad Club, Boston.
 James Grant joined the Michael Russell Group, Manhattan Beach, Calif., as a vice president, to open a New York office. Mr. Grant is a longtime entertainment journalist for publications like Cosmopolitan, Entertainment Weekly and Life.
 Hallmark Cards, Kansas City, Mo., is closing Hallmark Magazine, New York, effective with the February/March issue. The affiliated Web site Hallmarkmagazine.com will also be closed. The magazine, introduced in fall 2006, had a circulation rate base -- the circulation guaranteed to advertisers -- of 800,000, compared with 400,000 at the time it was introduced. But the company said it could not continue to invest in the magazine given the economic climate. Hallmark Magazine was the subject of the Campaign Spotlight feature in the Aug. 25 issue of In Advertising. Twenty-eight employees will lose their jobs, as will 10 employees at the Hallmark creative division in Kansas City. 
 Joe Hodas joined Vladimir Jones, Denver and Colorado Springs, as senior vice president for brand communications. He had been vice president for corporate communications at Consumer Capital Partners, Denver.
 Marko Hurst joined Colangelo, Darien, Conn., part of the Omnicom Group, as director for user experience, a new post. He had most recently been user experience lead in the Web insights group at Roundarch, New York.
 The Lake Champlain KFC Advertising Co-op, Burlington, Vt., named LevLane, Philadelphia, as its first media and promotions agency of record. Media assignments had previously been handled by local agencies on a project basis. Spending was estimated at less than $1 million. LevLane also handles five other KFC regional co-op accounts in Florida, Massachusetts, New York and Pennsylvania.
 Andrew Mansinne joined DOmedia, Columbus, Ohio, as chief executive, a new post. He had led the brand marketing efforts for the Americas region for Foster's Wine Estates Americas, Napa, Calif., part of the Foster's Group.
 MediaStorm promoted five executives as the agency created a tier of senior management. The executives are: Jenine Kelly, managing director, in the South Norwalk, Conn., office; Marc Klatzko, managing director for creative and marketing, in the New York office; Jamie Melecio, managing director, in South Norwalk; Gregg Rothberg, managing director for marketing and integration, in New York; and Chad Urice, managing director, in South Norwalk.
 MTV Networks Latin America, part of the MTV Networks unit of Viacom, will open a sales and marketing office in Bogota, Colombia.
 The One Club for Art and Copy, New York, elected 10 new members to its board. They are: Andy Azula of the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Roger Camp of Publicis & Hal Riney, San Francisco, part of the Publicis Groupe; Glenn Cole of 72 and Sunny, El Segundo, Calif.; David Droga of Droga5, New York; Linus Karlsson of the New York office of Mother; Nick Law of R/GA, New York, part of Interpublic; David Lubars of BBDO Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group; Ari Merkin of Toy, New York; Steve Mykolyn of the New York office of Taxi; and Nancy Vonk of the Toronto office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP.
 Greg Schaefer, president at National Cable Communications, New York, was promoted to a new post, chief executive, while continuing as president.
 Scott Schiller joined Comcast Interactive Media, part of the Comcast Corporation, in a new post, senior vice president for advertising sales, overseeing sales for Fandango, Fancast, Plaxo and Movies.com. He will be based in New York and manage sales offices around the country. Mr. Schiller had been executive vice president for global marketing at Glam Media, New York.
 Eric Schwarzkopf joined Fitness magazine, New York, as associate publisher. He succeeds Amy Simmons, who left, the magazine said, to pursue other opportunities. Mr. Schwarzkopf had most recently been associate publisher at CosmoGirl magazine, New York, which was closed by its parent, Hearst Magazines, part of the Hearst Corporation. Fitness is part of the Meredith Corporation.
 The Spanish Tourism Board consolidated its media planning and buying accounts at the Madrid office of MPG, part of Havas. Spending for 2009 was estimated at more than $53 million. MPG, which previously handled the planning and buying for offline, or traditional, media, will now also handle the online planning and buying. 
 Jack Sullivan, senior vice president and out-of-home activation director at Starcom USA, was named chairman of the Traffic Audit Bureau. Mr. Sullivan, who has been a member of the organization's board since 1997, succeeds Andrea MacDonald, president at MacDonald Media. Starcom USA is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.
 Veronis Suhler Stevenson, New York, revised downward its forecast for media spending in 2009. The new prediction is for a decrease of 0.4 percent compared with 2008; the previous forecast called for an increase of 4.9 percent. It is the first time the company has revised an annual communications industry forecast.
 Webster Bank, Waterbury, Conn., part of the Webster Financial Corporation, chose new agencies for its creative and media assignments. Billings were not disclosed. Kelliher Samets Volk, Boston, will take over the creative duties from Avrett Free Ginsberg, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The Kelliher Samets Volk office in Burlington, Vt., will handle all media planning and buying as well as digital work; the media assignment had been at Horizon Media, New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); SALES & SELLING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); FILM (72%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (69%); EVENT MARKETING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%); BASEBALL (61%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (64%); NEWS CORP (60%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (91%); NWS (NASDAQ) (60%); NWS (ASX) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (65%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (73%); TEXAS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009



389 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: 'Cross' My Heart and Hope to Volunteer

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
One of the most famous logos in advertising is getting a makeover that could be called a heart operation.
 The red heart symbol in the ''I NY'' logo is being replaced by a Red Cross symbol in a public service campaign for the American Red Cross in Greater New York. The campaign, which began last week, is intended to encourage New Yorkers to volunteer for the Red Cross Reserves, whose members are on call in case of major disasters.
 Since 1977, when the designer Milton Glaser introduced ''I NY'' -- also known as ''I love New York'' -- the logo has been reproduced innumerable times, in versions both official and unauthorized. A literal reading of the rebus as ''I heart New York'' has even become part of the vernacular, as in the title of the 2004 movie ''I Heart Huckabees.''
 In this instance, the alteration is kosher. Gov. David A. Paterson gave his approval for the change, the New York Red Cross says. The green light comes from him because the logo is overseen by the state Department of Economic Development and Empire State Development Corporation as they lead efforts to encourage tourism and business growth in New York State and New York City. 
 The campaign for the Red Cross Reserves will benefit from donations of advertising space and commercial time that are being valued at $2.5 million to $3 million. The campaign will appear in print, online, atop taxi cabs and on posters, billboards and signs.
 The campaign is also getting its own Web site, iredcrossny.org.
 And there will be volunteers on the streets of Brooklyn and Manhattan, handing out T-shirts and buttons decorated with the ''I (Red Cross) NY'' logo.
 The campaign is being created by the flagship New York office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP. A couple of sibling agencies are also working on the campaign, Neo@Ogilvy and Kinetic.
 The ads feature current members of the Red Cross Reserves, representing the gorgeous mosaic that is New York in their ages, races, ethnicities, accents and appearances. The volunteers are photographed by Jake Chessum, known for portraits of celebrities like Orlando Bloom, Jake Gyllenhaal, Ewan McGregor, Viggo Mortensen, Owen Wilson and Amy Winehouse.
 In video clips on the Web site, the volunteers discuss why they are donating their time to the New York Red Cross, offering reasons that range from Hurricane Katrina to wanting to help build a community of caring New Yorkers to giving back to the Red Cross for assistance previously received from the organization.
 There are currently 6,200 members of the Reserves, the New York Red Cross says, who qualify to help in the event of large-scale mishaps, man-made or natural, by taking a six-hour training session.
 The goal of the campaign is to increase the ranks of the reserve force by more than half, to 10,000.
 ''All of us in New York agree we should be prepared for the possibility of catastrophic events in our future,'' says Terry Bischoff, chief executive at the American Red Cross in Greater New York. ''We've determined we need 10,000 New Yorkers trained as Red Cross volunteers before the next disaster strikes.''
 ''We already have amazing volunteers,'' she adds. ''By telling their stories, other New Yorkers will say, 'I want to do that.' '' The idea of turning volunteers into the stars of the campaign makes sense, Ms. Bischoff says, as a way to demonstrate there are ''all kinds of New Yorkers who choose to contribute to their city through service: schoolteachers, actors, investment bankers, ballerinas.''
 ''The recruitment of volunteers is a local activity, and should be tailored to reflect the needs of the local community,'' she adds. ''We think this campaign speaks to our community.''
 Adapting a logo so familiar to New Yorkers as the logo for the campaign is also intended to talk directly to local residents who could potentially be volunteers.
 ''We all have our own reaction when we see 'I Love New York,' '' Ms. Bischoff says, and when the Ogilvy New York employees presented the reworked logo, ''we were over the top.''
 ''To see the cross'' in place of the heart ''gave us goose bumps,'' she adds. ''It was so simply striking.''
 The ''I (Red Cross) New York'' logo appears prominently in all the ads. ''The Red Cross Reserves need 10,000 volunteers,'' most of the ads begin. ''Just one training session and you're qualified to help.''
 ''You love NY,'' the ads conclude, ''but do you (Red Cross) NY? Volunteer. Prepare. Donate.''
 The ads all include an acknowledgment of the source of the logo, which reads, ''We thank I NY for sharing their heart with us.''
 The creative team at Ogilvy New York working on the campaign is a bit fuzzy on the ''Eureka!'' moment that inspired the idea of giving the logo a heart transplant.
 ''I'm sure it happened in a seedy diner with a lot of coffee,'' Andrea Scotting, a copywriter and associate creative director at Ogilvy New York, says, laughing.
 The switcheroo works, Ms. Scotting says, because even though the ''I NY'' logo ''has been used and parodied for a lot of things, it carries a lot of weight, it has a lot of power.''
 Plus, ''there's an intrinsic 'New York-iness' about it,'' she adds, that rubs off onto the Red Cross's version of the logo.
 Her colleague, Doreen Fox, an art director and associate creative director, offers her own recollection of the genesis of the campaign.
 ''Everyone's heard of 'I Love New York,' '' Ms. Fox says, but ''how do you put an active spin on it? You love New York, but do you really know how to get help to New Yorkers?''
 The Red Cross symbol replaces the heart, she adds, ''with another level of help and love and compassion.''
 Spencer Osborn, worldwide managing director at Ogilvy New York, says the agency has been careful ''to make sure we didn't do anything inappropriate to the logo'' and shared the campaign materials bearing the revised logo with New York State officials so ''they understand where and how it appears.''
 ''They were very happy to help an organization as pukka as the Red Cross,'' says Mr. Osborn, who is British, using a slang term that means first-class or authentic.
 ''I wasn't born in New York, but I'm incredibly proud to be here,'' he adds. ''This campaign lets you show your love for New York in a very active way, instead of just yelling about New York being the greatest place in the world.''
 Among the media outlets that are promising to donate ad space and commercial time for the campaign are bloomberg.com; fandango.com; hopstop.com; menupages.com; New York magazine and its Web site, nymag.com; Thomson Reuters, which will run ads on the giant digital signs on its building in Times Square; and U.S. News & World Report magazine.
 The New York Red Cross is particularly pleased with the media pledges, Ms. Bischoff says, given ''the difficult economic times.''
 ''Pro bono contribution is a wonderful way for corporate organizations to continue to contribute when they may not have philanthropic dollars,'' she adds.
 As for Ogilvy New York, its pro bono work on the campaign is indicative of how agencies in the New York market try to donate time and talent for causes in good times or bad.
 Another example is being offered by a new organization, Agencies in Action, which encourages employees of New York agencies -- and free-lancers -- to form teams to volunteer for at least three hours a month at local soup kitchens.
 The organization, which is working with the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, has six agencies participating so far: the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of Havas; Cossette New York, a unit of Cossette; DiMassimo Goldstein; Gotham, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners, owned by MDC Partners; and the New York office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. 
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); HURRICANES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); WEB SITES (64%)

COMPANY: OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (57%); JAKE GYLLENHAAL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009



390 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: At Treasury, a Sense of Cascading Problems and No Relief

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Rarely have so few people had so little time to prop up so many pillars of the economy as those in the Treasury Department under Timothy F. Geithner.
 In the six weeks since Mr. Geithner took over as Treasury secretary, he and a skeleton crew of unofficial senior advisers have been racing to make decisions that will shape the future of the banking, insurance, housing and automobile industries. 
 But even as he maintains a frenetic pace -- unveiling plans, testifying before Congress and negotiating new bailouts with the likes of Citigroup, General Motors and the American International Group -- there are signs that events are getting ahead of him.
 Administration officials say they are postponing their plan to produce a detailed road map for overhauling the nation's financial regulatory system by April, in time for the Group of 20 meeting in London. Though officials say they will still develop basic principles in time for the meeting, the plan will not include much detail. 
 Treasury officials are also still scrambling to decide details of their plan to buy up as much as $1 trillion in toxic assets from the nation's banks, one month after being widely criticized for presenting a plan that lacked any specifics on how it would work.
 Analysts say it is far too early to know if Mr. Geithner and his team will be effective. But some worry that political and financial constraints have made them reluctant to grapple with the full magnitude of the crisis.
 Many financial experts estimate that the nation's banks are holding as much as $2 trillion in troubled assets, most of it tied to mortgages. By contrast, the Treasury has less than $300 billion left in the financial rescue plan that Congress reluctantly approved last year. 
 To avoid asking Congress for more money, Mr. Geithner has been trying to stretch government money by working with private investors, the Federal Reserve and government-controlled companies like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants. But that has introduced other tough policy issues, many of which remain unresolved.
 ''Their huge problem is that the American public is not willing to accept large losses for large financial institutions,'' said Vincent Reinhart, a former Fed official and senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research and lobbying organization. ''Everything they are doing is about having the smallest possible footprint on the federal budget. They don't want to engage the Congress and they don't want to engage the American people in that discussion.''
 Compounding the strain on the Treasury, almost all the top posts beneath Mr. Geithner are still vacant. Though he has hired about 50 senior advisers -- about half the number he hopes to recruit -- the White House has become so worried about potential tax problems and other issues in the backgrounds of candidates that it has nominated only a handful of people. 
 On Sunday, the White House announced that it would nominate Alan B. Krueger, an economist at Princeton, to be assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy. It will also nominate David S. Cohen to be assistant secretary for policy on terrorist financing and Kim N. Wallace as assistant secretary in charge of Congressional relations.
 That still left many positions, including the No. 2 post at Treasury, without even a nominee. 
 Mr. Geithner, as a result, has been pulled in many directions at once and remains virtually the only public face of the Treasury. He is the sole person who can go before Congress to promote and defend the department's decisions to provide billions of dollars for General Motors, Chrysler, the nation's banks or the millions of homeowners facing foreclosure.
 ''The problem is not with policy development and implementation,'' said one senior official who is among the many aides to Mr. Geithner awaiting nomination. ''The problem is with getting out there in the world and talking about it. Other than Geithner, there's nobody else to make the case in public for these policies.''
 The Treasury's staff problems took another turn for the worse in recent days, when the administration's preferred candidate for the No. 2 spot at Treasury, Annette L. Nazareth, withdrew her name from consideration.
 Administration officials said Ms. Nazareth, a former top official at the Securities and Exchange Commission, did not have tax problems. Rather, administration officials were worried that political opponents would seize on her years as an S.E.C. commissioner and, before that, the agency official in charge of overseeing the markets. The S.E.C. has been harshly criticized for its lax enforcement.
 To some extent, Mr. Geithner's staff problems stem from his own failure to pay more than $32,000 in self-employment taxes. That slip-up not only embarrassed the Obama administration, which had prided itself on nominating people with unassailable backgrounds. It also nearly torpedoed his Senate confirmation, and caused White House officials to slow down the background checks for dozens of other nominees. 
 ''Much of this is of Obama's own making,'' said Professor Paul Light, an expert on the White House appointment process who teaches at the Robert F. Wagner School of Public Service at New York University. ''We're now seeing a dramatic pendulum swing. This administration used a lot of political capital for getting some people through, and that created an issue for Republicans and late-night comedians.''
 Of the four major federal departments -- state, justice, defense and the Treasury -- the Treasury has had the fewest nominees even though it is dealing with probably the most significant problems facing the government. 
 Despite it all, Mr. Geithner, who arrives at the Treasury around 5:30 each morning and exercises in the department gym before starting work, has not appeared daunted.
 Seemingly relaxed and unflappable, he has appeared time and again at public events alongside President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden. Last week, he testified about Mr. Obama's tax proposals before three Congressional committees. 
 Outside the public eye, Mr. Geithner has been constantly on the move. He played a direct role in discussions about expanding the bailouts for Citigroup and A.I.G., negotiating with both companies while he jumped between public events.
 By any normal measure, Treasury officials have been remarkably productive. In the last month alone, Mr. Geithner announced the outlines of a $2.5 trillion bank rescue plan; detailed a $275 billion plan to help homeowners with their mortgages; created a ''stress test'' to determine whether banks can withstand a serious downturn; and issued restrictions on executive pay at banks that receive federal money. 
 In addition, Treasury officials have played a central role in fashioning Mr. Obama's budget -- especially the tax portions, which would raise $1 trillion over the next 10 years, mostly through higher taxes on the wealthy and corporations. And Mr. Geithner was central in persuading Congress to free up the second $350 billion for the Treasury's financial rescue program. 
 But these are anything but normal times. With the economy plunging into its deepest recession since the early 1980s, the Treasury has been put in charge of vast swaths of the economy, including rescuing the financial system, the housing market and the automobile industry. 
 The strains are showing. Many top Treasury aides often look haggard and acknowledge they are getting by on only a few hours of sleep a night. They often have to split their attention among wildly different projects. 
 For example, Gene Sperling, who served as director of President Clinton's National Economic Council, was closely involved in discussions about the Obama tax plan, as well as the talks about the bank rescue plan and new limits on executive pay. 
 In carrying out analysis for its bank rescue plan, in particular a proposed ''Public-Private Investment Fund'' to buy up troubled assets, Treasury officials have leaned on the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for help.
 To carry out its $75 billion program to modify mortgages for families in danger of losing their homes, the Treasury is relying on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage finance companies. 
 One of the few areas in which the Treasury has increased its staff is the all-important Office of Financial Stability, which ran the $700 billion financial rescue plan during the Bush administration. But that is because the Bush administration had hired almost 100 staff people by the time of Mr. Obama's inauguration. Its director, Neel Kashkari, is a Bush holdover. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's efforts to flesh out the details of the administration's economic plans referred incorrectly to the American Enterprise Institute, which employs Vincent Reinhart, a senior fellow who commented on the administration's strategy. It is a conservative policy research group -- not a lobbying organization. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has had to make do with a skeleton crew in efforts to heal the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Timothy F. Geithner reviewing his notes before his testimony to the Senate Finance Committee last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TOXIC ASSETS (76%); TESTIMONY (75%); LOBBYING (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); APPROVALS (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



391 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Behind The Curve

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
President Obama's plan to stimulate the economy was ''massive,'' ''giant,'' ''enormous.'' So the American people were told, especially by TV news, during the run-up to the stimulus vote. Watching the news, you might have thought that the only question was whether the plan was too big, too ambitious.
 Yet many economists, myself included, actually argued that the plan was too small and too cautious. The latest data confirm those worries -- and suggest that the Obama administration's economic policies are already falling behind the curve. 
 To see how bad the numbers are, consider this: The administration's budget proposals, released less than two weeks ago, assumed an average unemployment rate of 8.1 percent for the whole of this year. In reality, unemployment hit that level in February -- and it's rising fast.
 Employment has already fallen more in this recession than in the 1981-82 slump, considered the worst since the Great Depression. As a result, Mr. Obama's promise that his plan will create or save 3.5 million jobs by the end of 2010 looks underwhelming, to say the least. It's a credible promise -- his economists used solidly mainstream estimates of the impacts of tax and spending policies. But 3.5 million jobs almost two years from now isn't enough in the face of an economy that has already lost 4.4 million jobs, and is losing 600,000 more each month.
 There are now three big questions about economic policy. First, does the administration realize that it isn't doing enough? Second, is it prepared to do more? Third, will Congress go along with stronger policies?
 On the first two questions, I found Mr. Obama's latest interview with The Times anything but reassuring.
 ''Our belief and expectation is that we will get all the pillars in place for recovery this year,'' the president declared -- a belief and expectation that isn't backed by any data or model I'm aware of. To be sure, leaders are supposed to sound calm and in control. But in the face of the dismal data, this remark sounded out of touch. 
 And there was no hint in the interview of readiness to do more. 
 A real fix for the troubles of the banking system might help make up for the inadequate size of the stimulus plan, so it was good to hear that Mr. Obama spends at least an hour each day with his economic advisors, ''talking through how we are approaching the financial markets.'' But he went on to dismiss calls for decisive action as coming from ''blogs'' (actually, they're coming from many other places, including at least one president of a Federal Reserve bank), and suggested that critics want to ''nationalize all the banks'' (something nobody is proposing). 
 As I read it, this dismissal -- together with the continuing failure to announce any broad plans for bank restructuring -- means that the White House has decided to muddle through on the financial front, relying on economic recovery to rescue the banks rather than the other way around. And with the stimulus plan too small to deliver an economic recovery ... well, you get the picture.
 Sooner or later the administration will realize that more must be done. But when it comes back for more money, will Congress go along?
 Republicans are now firmly committed to the view that we should do nothing to respond to the economic crisis, except cut taxes -- which they always want to do regardless of circumstances. If Mr. Obama comes back for a second round of stimulus, they'll respond not by being helpful, but by claiming that his policies have failed.
 The broader public, by contrast, favors strong action. According to a recent Newsweek poll, a majority of voters supports the stimulus, and, more surprisingly, a plurality believes that additional spending will be necessary. But will that support still be there, say, six months from now?
 Also, an overwhelming majority believes that the government is spending too much to help large financial institutions. This suggests that the administration's money-for-nothing financial policy will eventually deplete its political capital.
 So here's the picture that scares me: It's September 2009, the unemployment rate has passed 9 percent, and despite the early round of stimulus spending it's still headed up. Mr. Obama finally concedes that a bigger stimulus is needed.
 But he can't get his new plan through Congress because approval for his economic policies has plummeted, partly because his policies are seen to have failed, partly because job-creation policies are conflated in the public mind with deeply unpopular bank bailouts. And as a result, the recession rages on, unchecked.
 O.K., that's a warning, not a prediction. But economic policy is falling behind the curve, and there's a real, growing danger that it will never catch up. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RECESSION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



392 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: The Senators' Railway Station

 BODY:
After years of starts and stalls, replacing New York City's gloomy, subterranean Pennsylvania Station with an elegant transit hub suddenly looks possible again. Veterans of this project and its many iterations see a glimmer of hope that the grand old Farley Post Office on Eighth Avenue can still be converted into a splendid new railroad hall named for the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. 
 That renewed hope is there for two main reasons. First, Washington is handing out money. Second, Senator Charles Schumer, New York's high-energy force on Capitol Hill, has moved the Moynihan project up on his priority list.
 In a speech last week to business leaders, Senator Schumer laid out a cogent plan for making the new station come to life. Amtrak's new leadership would have to play a major role and agree to make Moynihan the point of departure and arrival for its Northeast Corridor trains. 
 As a grand open hall -- more a renovation with a new skylight than some of the dramatic and complicated schemes of the past -- Farley would then become the uplifting gateway to New York City. The overall scheme would also allow for major renovations to the existing Penn Station, now an intolerably confusing maze. 
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey would also be asked to play a major role. The authority has many items on its to-do list, including rebuilding at ground zero and creating a new tunnel under the Hudson from New Jersey. But as Mr. Schumer and others argue, it makes sense for the authority to coordinate what is essentially a major Midtown transportation project.
 Mr. Schumer suggests, rightly, that the authority could contribute at least $1 billion of the money it now has earmarked for city projects. That would be added to $250 million designated for Moynihan that's been sitting in the bank for years. Finally, Mr. Schumer and others want to move swiftly to get their hands on some of the money for high-speed rail and Amtrak included in the new stimulus package.
 Mr. Schumer's point, and one that deserves repeating, is that in the Great Depression, New Yorkers went for the sky. They built the Empire State Building. Now it's time to reach again, to use the present economic crisis to fulfill Senator Moynihan's enduring dream of a great railway entrance into New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



393 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Fear of Lost Jobs Is Hurdle to Reining In Defense Contracts

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
In pledging last week that the ''days of giving defense contractors a blank check are over,'' President Obama is taking on the giant weapons contracting system that he says has ''gone amok.''
 Nearly everyone agrees that huge cost overruns and delays in creating new weapons have become the norm. Even so, fierce battles are starting over some of the prominent programs he would like to cancel or cut back. 
 Defense experts say Mr. Obama will inevitably clash with members of Congress who are concerned about protecting jobs that such programs provide.
 ''He says he's not afraid to fight, and he's fighting on a lot of fronts,'' said Lawrence J. Korb, a former high-ranking Pentagon official, referring to the president's plans to reshape health care, education and energy policies. 
 But, Mr. Korb said, history has shown that to make lasting cuts to big weapons programs, ''you need a president who says to Congress, 'Put this in there, and I'll veto it.' ''
 Congressional and industry leaders say they recognize that defense spending is peaking, and the time has come -- given the many financial strains on the federal government -- to overhaul an acquisition system that has resulted in smaller, but more expensive, fleets of combat planes and ships. 
 There is also broad political support for the Pentagon's plans to shift some of the more than $650 billion in defense spending from futuristic weapons programs to simpler arms that the troops in Iraq and Afghanistan can use now.
 But with a labor report on Friday showing that the economy has lost 4.4 million jobs since the recession began, ''if you're talking about canceling major weapons systems, that becomes hard,'' said William S. Cohen, a former senator from Maine who served as defense secretary under President Bill Clinton. 
 ''Given the economic climate we're operating in now, any congressman or senator is going to say, 'I've got to protect the jobs in my district or state,' and that's understandable,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''The difficulty now is how do you get a majority to vote against their own interests, even if you could persuade them that the changes would be best for the national defense?''
 Perhaps the most controversial program in Mr. Obama's sights is the Air Force's advanced F-22 fighter jet, which the Bush administration tried for years to halt, saying it was a cold war relic. Mr. Korb and other analysts say that if the president is determined to fix the contracting process, canceling the F-22 would send a strong signal.
 Lockheed Martin, which makes the plane and buys parts from more than 1,000 suppliers in 44 states, has mounted a lobbying campaign emphasizing the high-paying jobs it creates. 
 Forty-four senators and 200 representatives have written to Mr. Obama urging him to keep buying the planes, costing $143 million each, and some analysts think a compromise to buy 30 to 60 more could be reached. 
 Still, industry executives say that Mr. Obama and his defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, are clearly serious about making cuts and revamping a contracting process that has let the price tag of the 95 biggest programs grow nearly $300 billion beyond their original cost estimates.
 Gordon Adams, a professor at American University in Washington, said parts of the $10 billion missile defense programs, which are still being tested, represent ''low-hanging fruit'' for Mr. Obama. His team might also cancel a radar-evading $3.3 billion destroyer that even the Navy says it can no longer afford. And the Army's sweeping $160 billion modernization plan seems likely to be scaled back.
 Mr. Gates has said that the administration would decide by April on the cuts it plans to make. Then the action will shift to Capitol Hill, where defense contractors are likely to push back, using the jobs argument.
 Some studies suggest that defense spending diverts resources from more productive investments and is a costly way to create jobs. But Marion C. Blakey, chief executive of the Aerospace Industries Association, a trade group in Washington, said most of the defense jobs are relatively high-paying and provide critical technical training.
 ''It's a very dangerous thing to contemplate cutting back on those jobs in this economy,'' Ms. Blakey said.
 Lockheed Martin says 25,000 jobs depend directly on the F-22, and perhaps 70,000 more indirectly. But only a few thousand of the people working for the company or its suppliers would face immediate layoffs if the program were canceled, because production would continue for two more years under previous government orders.
 Many studies, including those by the Government Accountability Office and Pentagon boards, have shown that many weapons projects start out with unrealistically low cost estimates, depend on technologies that are not ready and face constant changes in design requirements. 
 ''The root cause is that you've got an ever-changing kaleidoscope of entities involved in the decisions, and nobody has the authority to just say no and be held accountable for it,'' Mr. Lehman said. ''That's what has to change.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (92%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (88%); LAYOFFS (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VETO (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); RECESSION (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



394 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Is Focus on Limbaugh Blurring the Big Picture?

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
The Obama White House and fellow Democrats have turned Rush Limbaugh into target practice for more than a week, with no letup in sight.
 By the poll numbers, crowning Mr. Limbaugh, the bombastic radio host, as king of the Republican Party has worked as well as any election maneuver that Rahm Emanuel employed in helping Democrats win back majority status as chairman of their House campaign committee.
 What is unclear is how well it works for Mr. Emanuel's mission as the White House chief of staff: attracting enough support from Republican lawmakers to enact President Obama's ambitious domestic agenda. 
 ''The charge is accurate,'' Mr. Emanuel said in an interview of Mr. Limbaugh's role, since Republicans have become ''the party of 'no.' '' 
 But some of Mr. Obama's would-be Republican allies consider the focus on Mr. Limbaugh a step backward.
 ''It doesn't help, frankly,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, a moderate Republican from Maine who serves as a fulcrum in contentious debates on Capitol Hill. ''It sidetracks all the major issues they're facing.''
 One such issue is Mr. Obama's budget. Ms. Snowe opposes it, even though she cast a crucial vote enabling passage of the Obama stimulus package last month.
 And to achieve the consensus necessary for action on energy, health care, Social Security and Medicaid, Mr. Obama will need not only Ms. Snowe but also a broader group of Republican backers -- most of whom share more views with Mr. Limbaugh than Ms. Snowe ever will.
 The G.O.P. Divide
 Ms. Snowe has never been a Limbaugh-style Republican. She favors abortion rights and rejects conservatives' view that refundable tax credits for low-income earners represents socialist wealth redistribution. She has spoken out on the need for her party to shift toward the political center after two consecutive election routs.
 ''We've gotten the signal -- the sledgehammer signal,'' she said. Yet she insists Mr. Obama gains little by stomping on that internal Republican divide.
 Not only do other potential Republican partners represent many Limbaugh fans, but Ms. Snowe herself has strong reservations about Mr. Obama's budget. 
 She supports his plan to end President George W. Bush's tax cuts for the wealthy, a move that other Republicans attack as a tax increase.
 But, she said of the budget, ''I question whether there's a strong foundation for true deficit reduction,'' adding, ''It definitely needs to be reworked.''
 Surmounting reservations of philosophy represents only part of Mr. Obama's challenge. Another is the sheer volume of what the president has asked lawmakers to digest.
 ''The overall problem is there's too much on their plate,'' said John B. Breaux, a Democratic former senator from Louisiana. Known for his deal-making skills when he joined Ms. Snowe in a coalition of Senate centrists, Mr. Breaux explained, ''It's almost impossible for 535 individuals to do all this at once.''
 Wooing Potential Allies
 Mr. Emanuel dismissed that objection as another behind-the-curve reflex of Beltway insiders. ''The American people want you to take on big issues,'' he said. ''It's only Washington that says, 'You're going too fast.' ''
 Moreover, Mr. Emanuel -- a former Clinton White House aide and House member from Illinois -- pointed to last week's health care meeting as evidence that Mr. Obama was continuing to reach out to Republicans even as his aides were throwing darts. The participants included Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, a Finance Committee member who is personally close to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, the ailing champion of health care reform.
 Despite his reservations about White House strategy, Mr. Breaux says Mr. Obama may yet achieve much of what he seeks, notwithstanding the rising political din.
 White House aides argue that Congress can complete action on a health care overhaul this year. Mr. Breaux considers that unrealistic, but he predicts passage in 2010 so long as Mr. Obama sustains his approach of ''spreading the hurt'' among different parts of the industry. (In his current role as a lobbyist, Mr. Breaux represents health care companies keenly interested in pain management.)
 Mr. Hatch, Senator Robert F. Bennett of Utah, and Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa all represent important potential allies. Even as Senator John McCain of Arizona rips ''earmarks'' in a spending bill Mr. Obama supports, Mr. McCain may provide crucial support on a ''cap and trade'' program to limit carbon dioxide emissions.
 Ms. Snowe, too, remains optimistic that the national atmosphere of crisis can break the recent pattern of ''miniaturized'' debates in Congress.
 ''I think we're moving closer, in spite of the outward political rhetoric,'' she said. ''I have more hope than maybe I should have. We've got to leave the radio commentators to be radio commentators. Let's do our jobs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MEDICAID (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



395 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: New Stem Cell Policy to Leave Thorniest Issue to Congress

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
While lifting the Bush administration's restrictions on federally financed human embryonic stem cell research, President Obama intends to avoid the thorniest question in the debate: whether taxpayer dollars should be used to experiment on embryos themselves, two senior administration officials said Sunday.
 The officials, who provided details of the announcement Mr. Obama will make Monday at the White House, said the president would leave it to Congress to determine whether the long-standing legislative ban on federal financing for human embryo experiments should also be overturned.
 Yet, people on both sides of the stem cell debate say Mr. Obama's announcement could lead to a reconsideration of the ban on Capitol Hill, an idea so controversial and fraught with ethical implications that the mere discussion of it would have been unthinkable just a few months ago, when President George W. Bush was in office.
 The ban, known as the Dickey-Wicker amendment, first became law in 1996, and has been renewed by Congress every year since. It specifically bans the use of tax dollars to create human embryos -- a practice that is routine in private fertility clinics -- or for research in which embryos are destroyed, discarded or knowingly subjected to risk of injury. 
 For a time, the ban stood in the way of taxpayer-financed embryonic stem cell research, because embryos are destroyed when stem cells are extracted from them. But in August 2001, in a careful compromise, President Bush opened the door a tiny crack, by ordering that tax dollars could be used for studies on a small number of lines, or colonies, of stem cells already extracted from embryos -- so long as federal researchers did not do the extraction themselves.
 On Monday, Mr. Obama will throw open the door much farther with an executive order that will ''make clear that the government intends to support'' human embryonic stem cell research, said Harold Varmus, the president of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, who advises Mr. Obama on science matters.
 To the delight of patients' groups and scientists, the order will allow research on hundreds of stem cell lines already in existence, as well as ones yet to be created, typically from embryos left over from fertility treatments that would otherwise be discarded.
 The order comes just in time for researchers to take advantage of money in Mr. Obama's economic recovery package and use it for stem cell studies. But because of the Dickey-Wicker amendment, federal researchers would still be unable to create their own stem cell lines. 
 Mr. Obama has no power to overturn the Dickey-Wicker ban. Only Congress, which attaches the ban to appropriations bills, can overturn it. Mr. Obama has not taken a position on the ban and does not intend to, Melody C. Barnes, his chief domestic policy adviser, said Sunday. The president believes stem cell research ''should be done in compliance with federal law,'' she said, adding that Mr. Obama recognizes the divisiveness of the issue.
 ''We are committed to pursuing stem cell research quite responsibly but we recognize there are a range of beliefs on this,'' Ms. Barnes said.
 Because embryonic stem cells are capable of developing into any type of cell or tissue in the body, many scientists and advocates for patients believe they hold the possibility for treatments and cures for ailments as varied as diabetes and heart disease. Some researchers say stem cells may someday be used to treat catastrophic injuries, like damage to the spinal cord. 
 Mr. Bush twice vetoed legislation that would have expanded his 2001 policy.
 Although Mr. Obama's action on Monday has broad bipartisan support, it could still be overturned by a successor so House Democrats are expected to draft legislation that would codify the president's executive order.
 But with Mr. Obama revisiting the Bush policy, Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado and a leading advocate for embryonic stem cell research, said Sunday in an interview that overturning the embryo experiment ban might not be as far-fetched as some critics imagine. 
 Ms. DeGette said the first move for lawmakers would be to turn the steps Mr. Obama takes by executive order on Monday into law. But she said she was also talking to her colleagues about overturning the broader Dickey-Wicker restriction.
 ''Dickey-Wicker is 13 years old now, and I think we need to review these policies,'' Ms. DeGette said. ''I've already talked to several pro-life Democrats about Dickey-Wicker, and they seemed open to the concept of reversing the policy if we could show that it was necessary to foster this research.''
 A senior House Democratic leadership aide, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the issue, said overturning the ban ''would be difficult, but not impossible,'' adding, ''It's not something that we would do right away, but it's something that we would look at.''
 Fertility researchers also believe the climate is ripe to allow federal money for their work, especially in light of the recent controversy over the birth of octuplets in California, said Sean Tipton, a spokesman for the American Society for Reproductive Medicine.
 ''I think we're thrilled that the president is going to lift the restrictions on embryonic stem cell research,'' Mr. Tipton said Sunday. ''It is clear, though, that Congress needs to remove the restrictions it puts on other forms of embryo research.''
 Already abortion opponents are bracing for a battle. ''The administration now steps onto a very steep, very slippery slope,'' said Douglas Johnson, legislative director for the National Right to Life Committee. ''Many researchers will never be satisfied only with the so-called leftover embryos.''
 One Republican lawmaker, Representative Christopher H. Smith of New Jersey, is calling Mr. Obama ''the abortion president,'' and is planning his own event on Monday to protest Mr. Obama's new stem cell policy.
 Mr. Smith said in an interview Sunday that he did not think lawmakers would go along with overturning the embryo experiment ban. 
 ''I don't think it will fly because the movement in the country is in favor of life,'' he said. ''For Congress to say that the new guinea pig will be human embryos, most Americans will find that highly offensive.''
 Mr. Obama's announcement on Monday will be part of a broader initiative to make good on his pledge to separate science and politics. Dr. Varmus, a former director of the National Institutes of Health who is a co-chairman of a panel that advises Mr. Obama on science issues, said the president would issue a memorandum to ''restore public confidence in the process by which scientific policy is used to guide government action,'' by directing his administration to draft guidelines for the use of scientific information and the appointment of outside science advisers. 
 In reversing the stem cell policy Mr. Bush put in place in August 2001, Mr. Obama will direct the National Institutes of Health to come up with new stem cell research guidelines within 120 days.
 Ms. DeGette said she is already talking to the White House about what legislation codifying the executive order might say.
 ''It's a wonderful development tomorrow,'' she said, ''but it's really the first step in opening up ethical cell-based research.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); BIOETHICS (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); CANCER (73%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (66%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



396 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Political Protector, Ever Close at Hand

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The pepperoni and cheese pizzas had been delivered, and a meeting about how to sell President Obama's economic plan was set to begin -- not at the White House, but a few blocks away in the seventh-floor apartment of David Axelrod.
 Mr. Axelrod took a seat in his living room, with the Washington Monument visible in the distance, and asked how the president's proposals were being received in the country. He went around the room, calling on a cluster of strategists who were on hand to discuss the latest batch of polls and focus groups conducted for the White House.
 It is known as the Wednesday Night Meeting, an invitation-only session for a handful of advisers, nearly all of whom played a key role in paving Mr. Obama's path to the Oval Office. The location varies, but on a recent evening Mr. Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president, was feeling under the weather, so a group that he says is ''like family to me'' met at his place. 
 ''It helps clarify my thinking to talk to people who I have faith in,'' Mr. Axelrod said, reluctantly describing the weekly meetings he had hoped to keep under wraps so he would not suddenly be overrun by requests from people hoping to dispense advice. 
 The two-hour sessions are just one way in which Mr. Axelrod is making the transition from Chicago political consultant to the White House. His title does little to capture his full importance to Mr. Obama. His voice, and political advice, carry more weight than most anyone else's on the president's payroll.
 The question for someone with the access and authority that Mr. Axelrod enjoys in the White House is how he exerts his influence with the president, the White House staff, Congress and other constituencies.
 The circle around Mr. Obama has grown exponentially since he arrived in the White House. An army of new assistants, deputies and advisers surrounds him, but it is Mr. Axelrod who sits the closest to the Oval Office. His proximity is a symbol, in a unique West Wing kind of way, of how close he remains to Mr. Obama.
 ''I get to see him when I need to see him,'' Mr. Axelrod, 54, said in an interview in his office, which is slightly larger than a service elevator. ''It turns out he has a few things on his plate, so I try not to abuse that privilege.''
 Gone are the leather jacket and wrinkled plaid shirts he wore during the campaign. He has four new suits -- and an array of neckties -- for his new position. The wardrobe caught the president's eye at a recent White House dinner for the nation's governors.
 ''Everybody looks extraordinary,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Even Axelrod has cleaned up pretty well.''
 Mr. Axelrod has played a major role in framing the message of the domestic agenda, from the economic stimulus plan to health care. He has devoted far less time to foreign policy, given the amount of time the president spends dealing with the nation's fiscal crisis.
 A glimpse of Mr. Axelrod's day offers a look at how he spends his time.
 He arrives at the White House shortly after 7 a.m., a torturously early hour for a man known during the campaign for sending messages until the small hours of the morning. A cup of Earl Grey tea is waiting for him -- he hates the taste of coffee and recalls having only two cups in his life -- as he walks into his first appointment of the day, a meeting in the office of Rahm Emanuel, the chief of staff, who has been a friend for 25 years.
 He attends the economic briefing in the Oval Office, where the latest news and grim statistics are relayed to the president by a battery of advisers. When the classified intelligence briefing begins, Mr. Axelrod leaves the room. Later, he and a speechwriter sit down with Mr. Obama to review the three-ring binder containing each speech or statement the president will make that day.
 Often in the late afternoons, he walks to the Situation Room to attend some meetings of the National Security Council, stopping to grab a handful or two of the M&Ms that are in a large bowl outside the room.
 He also helps decide which fights to pick and which ones to avoid, making him a leading voice in setting the political tone in Washington. The recent back-and-forth with Rush Limbaugh, for example, was explicitly authorized by Mr. Axelrod, who told aides that it was not a moment to sit quietly after Mr. Limbaugh said he hoped that Mr. Obama would ''fail.''
 Mr. Axelrod's background has been rooted almost entirely in politics. Strong similarities exist between his trajectory and that of Karl Rove, a friend and longtime counselor to former President George W. Bush. Both Mr. Rove and Mr. Axelrod forged partnerships with their clients long before they began campaigning for the presidency, guided them through elective office and, ultimately, to the White House. 
 Mr. Axelrod rejects the comparison, saying that he is more of a protector of Mr. Obama's image and message than a policy maker or strategist intent on remaking the country's political DNA, as Mr. Rove often talked about. The two men have never met, but in his new role as commentator, Mr. Rove has criticized Mr. Axelrod as politicizing the White House.
 ''He's in the fomenting commentary business,'' Mr. Axelrod said recently over brunch. ''I'm not sitting here moving pieces around from the White House. I'm not trying to run the Democratic Party. I'm not trying to supplant the brilliant policy makers who are here.''
 But the Wednesday night meetings suggest that the strong belief in polling and focus groups from the campaign are alive in the White House. Joel Benenson, a pollster for Mr. Obama, is among the participants in the sessions. He said that Mr. Axelrod often asked one question above all: ''How do we make sure that the arguments from the president's agenda are made in the most persuasive way?''
 Mr. Axelrod has never worked in government, and the adjustment has been abrupt. (''Look, they made me a bureaucrat,'' he told one of his first visitors to his transition office, a government badge hanging from his neck.)
 He refers to his new job in the parlance of his long-ago career as a newspaper reporter: he is ''on assignment in Washington.'' His wife visits a few times a month, and he tries to return to Chicago just as often. 
 ''It's surreal, so much of this is,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''It is an incredible privilege to be here, but it's kind of hard to absorb and get your hands around all we're trying to do.''
 His imprint is felt across Washington and the Democratic establishment in the country. He works at explaining Mr. Obama's proposals on taxes, health care or the economy, no matter if his platform is a senators-only luncheon or a television talk show. 
 ''It's very important to have someone there to understand why Barack Obama ran for president,'' said David Plouffe, the campaign manager, who remains a close political adviser to Mr. Obama and a participant at the Wednesday meetings.
 There are few words that come across the president's lips that have not been blessed by Mr. Axelrod. He reviews every speech, studies every major policy position and works with Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, to prepare responses to the crisis of the day. 
 The gold-colored sofa in his office is often a bullpen for brainstorming new speeches, with the writers surrounded by two walls of campaign photos and a large picture of Manny's, his favorite Chicago deli.
 Jon Favreau, the president's chief speechwriter, said there was a familiar refrain during these meetings, with Mr. Axelrod urging the team not to become consumed by the insularity of Washington. ''Can I speak on behalf of the American people here?'' he said Mr. Axelrod often asks aloud.
 That is precisely why, Mr. Axelrod said, he convened the Wednesday Night Meetings: to take the pulse of what people were thinking. Locked in the White House all day, he added, he can no longer hear those voices on his own.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Axelrod (pg.A1)
 Similarities (and differences) exist in David Axelrod's relationship with the current president and Karl Rove's with the past. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNORS (71%); FOCUS GROUPS (70%)

PERSON: DAVID AXELROD (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



397 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 654 words

BYLINE: By BREAKINGVIEWS.COM

 BODY:
Why would anybody run a casino and a utility under the same roof? 
 That is an argument of those who want to bring back a variation of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era legislation that banned commercial banks from underwriting securities -- and led, among other things, to Morgan Stanley being spun off from JPMorgan. The law was repealed in 1999.
 The idea of forcibly separating utility banking from casino capitalism has superficial attractions. The utilities, which would be tightly regulated, would focus on taking deposits and lending money. The casinos, which would be lightly regulated, could place bets on a range of assets. Paul A. Volcker, head of President Obama's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, advocated some separation Friday at a conference at New York University's Stern School of Business. 
 But Glass-Steagall would not have stopped the current crisis. For starters, many institutions that have had trouble were not commercial banks. Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch were investment banks; the American International Group is an insurance company. All four caused havoc when they teetered or, in Lehman's case, collapsed. Any institution that is too big to fail, even if it is not in the utility end of banking, requires some sort of regulation.
 Now, of course, lots of commercial banks have also gotten into trouble. Think of Citigroup or, across the Atlantic, the Royal Bank of Scotland or Switzerland's UBS. One reason was that they invested in troubled securities. So it is appealing to think that they would have been safe if only they had not mingled the casino with the utility.
 This again oversimplifies the issue. True, these ''universal'' banks lost money in the casino. But they also lost lots of cash through bad lending. What is more, plenty of other utilitylike institutions have been in trouble -- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Northern Rock in Britain, Countrywide, Washington Mutual and Wachovia. And going back a generation or so, there was the spectacular collapse of American savings and loan associations.
 Yes, the casino is risky. But so is the utility. What the current crisis has shown is that the management of risk has been woeful across the board.
 So the solution is not to pick on one particular banking activity -- like proprietary trading -- label it as risky and quarantine it in some half-regulated purgatory. The better approach is to improve risk management across the industry.
 Many changes are required to achieve this, including compensation systems that do not encourage bankers to take excessive risks. But an essential element must be a regulatory system -- ideally, a simpler one than what the United States has now -- that requires banks to increase their capital buffers as they increase the risks they take. Given that capital is expensive, it will discourage them from taking too many risks, and thus, keep them from collapsing.
 Tighter regulation, however, should be the quid pro quo for being allowed to take deposits from the public or for being too big to fail. When banks take deposits, governments stand behind them with guarantees. If they are too big to fail, the taxpayer stands ready to bail them out. Whether they are commercial banks or investment banks is largely irrelevant.
 There is, though, a dividing line between institutions that enjoy the fully panoply of government protection and those that do not. Hedge funds and private equity firms should fall into the latter category. They do not need to be tightly regulated.
 Rather, the interface between them and banks needs to be closely monitored so that banks do not extend them too much credit. If they go bust, they will then drag the banking system down with them. If some people think of that kind of divide as a new version of Glass-Steagall, so be it. HUGO DIXON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 1933 signing by President Franklin D. Roosevelt of the Glass-Steagall Act. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); BANKING LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (72%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (66%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (64%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%); AMERICAN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); RBS (NYSE) (66%); RBS (LSE) (66%); RBS (AMS) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (64%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); SWITZERLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009



398 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2030 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: March 10, 2009

 BODY:
International
CHINA BRACES ITSELF
For a Year of Anniversaries
The Chinese place great emphasis on dates, and 2009 is going to be full of important ones. These dates, beginning with the anniversary of a failed revolt in Tibet 50 years ago, are causing China's rulers considerable stress. But no matter the connotation, auspicious or portentous, each is being viewed and prepared for as a source of potential unrest. Page A5
SWISS MAN CONFESSES TO FRAUD
A man dubbed the Swiss gigolo confessed to defrauding Germany's richest woman of nearly $10 million dollars. He also attempted to extort hundreds of millions more, which prompted her to report him the police. Page A5 
NORTH KOREA LASHES OUT
A routine joint military exercise in South Korea with American Marines has angered North Korea. It called the maneuvers a preparation to invade and promised to attack the United States, South Korea and Japan if any attempt were made to block a coming satellite launching. Page A9
Police Officer Killed In Northern Ireland A8
Kilbarry Journal
Between Forces of Hope and Habit
When workers at the Waterford Crystal Factory in Kilbarry, Ireland, were laid off, they could have reacted in any number of ways. But coming to work anyway? After the factory closed down, the workers convinced security guards to let them in. They've stayed, refusing to leave the building where some of them have worked their entire lives. Page A9
SUDAN RELEASES VOCAL CRITIC
Sudan released Hassan al-Turabi, an Islamist leader and one of the government's fiercest critics, two months after his arrest. No explanation was given, but analysts say it is possible the government is trying to patch some of its internal political rifts. Page A10
PROTEST WITHIN MADAGASCAR ARMY
A mutiny within the army of Madagascar added further turmoil to what has already been a chaotic year for the country. Soldiers at a base on the outskirts of the Malagasy capital have refused to suppress any more of the recent demonstrations against the government of President Marc Ravalomanana. Page A10
ZIMBABWE CRASH CALLED ACCIDENT
Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai of Zimbabwe said that the car crash that killed his wife on Friday was an accident. There had been some speculation that the crash was another of Zimbabwe's often violent political machinations. Page A11
National
A ZEALOUS WATCHMAN
To Follow the Stimulus Money
Earl E. Devaney, a hulking former college football lineman and Secret Service agent known to colleagues as the Big Man, was chosen by President Obama to be the chairman of the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board. His difficult assignment: police the spending of the $787 billion stimulus package in a way that is both speedy and thorough. PAGE A12
GREEN GROUPS AIM FOR DIVERSITY
National environmental organizations have traditionally drawn their membership from the white and affluent, but many say they feel pressure to diversify the movement further, both in membership and at higher levels of leadership. PAGE A13
MIXING SCIENCE AND POLITICS
President Obama's directive overturning the Bush administration's limits on embryonic stem cell research pleased many scientists, as did his assertion that the administration will pick its science advisers based on expertise, not political ideology. PAGE A15
LIBRARY AWAITS COLLEGE'S REBIRTH
Antioch College closed last summer, but its campus in Yellow Springs, Ohio, still boasts a functioning library. Besides providing library services, he is aiming to keep Antioch's archives in good condition so the college has something to fill gallery space should it reopen, the library's supervisor said. PAGE A16
AN OBAMA FRIEND, NOW AN ADVISER
Michelle Obama and Jocelyn Frye were close friends at Harvard Law School and never lost touch in the two decades since. Now Ms. Frye is serving as the first lady's policy and projects director, helping Mrs. Obama develop a policy platform, and has become an influential, behind-the-scenes adviser who has even counseled the president on some domestic policy matters. PAGE A17
RULING ON EFFECTS OF SLUGGISH CASES
The Supreme Court issued two rulings concerning the consequences of long delays in the criminal justice system. It declined to hear an appeal from a death row inmate who argued that he should not be executed because the 32 years he spent on death row amounted to cruel and unusual punishment. It also ruled that a Vermont man's right to a speedy trial had not been violated despite a three-year delay. PAGE A17
Obituaries
ANNA MANAHAN, 84
A familiar figure on Irish television, she earned belated recognition in the United States for her Tony-winning portrayal of a physically feeble but monstrously manipulative old woman in ''The Beauty Queen of Leenane.'' PAGE A19
New York
REPORT ACCUSES CITY HOSPITALS
Of Underreporting Incidents
A new report by the city comptroller's office found that hospitals in New York City are the least reliable in the state at reporting preventable mistakes and adverse incidents for patients like heart attacks, blood clots, hospital infections and medication errors. PAGE A20
Madoff's Place in Villainy A20
Business
BANKS RUSH TO PLACE FOREIGNERS
Amid Restrictions in Stimulus
A provision in the economic stimulus package limits the hiring of foreign workers by companies receiving government bailout money. In finance, that is nearly every big employer, which has meant a quiet scramble on Wall Street as companies try to make good on jobs offered to those noncitizens set to graduate from American universities. PAGE B1
CLOSING LOOPHOLE AND RAISING IRE
In his budget, President Obama proposes going after an overlooked tax break for the very rich that allowed them to pay less than the regular income tax rate. The problem is that the measure is two years late and several billions of dollars short. But that hasn't stopped the protests from Wall Street. Andrew Ross Sorkin, Dealbook. PAGE B1
GERMANY'S CAUTIOUS APPROACH
Though Berlin has already spent $63 billion to bolster its economy -- the largest amount in Europe -- the downturn has not had many palpable effects on the lives of ordinary Germans. Analysts say that this, along with a deep-seated mistrust of debt, appears to be reinforcing the government's wait-and-see approach on becoming more active and its opposition to more spending. PAGE B8
Advertising
Cheerleaders Amid the Crisis
As consumers' outlooks become increasingly dour because of the economy, Madison Avenue is taking the high road, or at least the optimistic one, Stuart Elliot writes. Ads have been embracing slogans that feature heavy use of affirmations, language extolling forward movement and the word ''go.'' Page B7
Sports
A RACE WHERE BIKES
And Masochism Meet
The Rouge Roubaix is a 100-mile road race that traces potholed asphalt and gravel inclines past the red brick churches and live oaks of rural Louisiana and neighboring Mississippi. The temperature along the route climbs pretty high. So who signs up for something like this? A devoted following that finds satisfaction in suffering. PAGE B13
RODRIGUEZ'S SURGERY IS SUCCESSFUL
Alex Rodriguez had successful surgery on his right hip and is expected to begin rehabilitation immediately. The process could take six to nine weeks, and Rodriguez is expected to return to the Yankees in May. PAGE B13
RANKING PROSPECTS AT EARLY AGES
Basketball players are now scouted and ranked as early as the sixth grade, putting them on the radar of major college programs and receiving lots of hype while still in their preteens. The players can stop improving, stop caring or stop growing. They can become irrelevant as college prospects before they reach high school, raising questions of whether they should be rated at all. PAGE B12
Arts
AFTER FOUR DECADES,
Fonda Returns to Broadway
After a 46-year absence, Jane Fonda returns to the Broadway stage in ''33 Variations,'' a new drama by Moises Kaufman. In it, she plays an assertive woman who is being humbled by Lou Gehrig's disease, a performance given added weight because of Ms. Fonda's image as spiky and confrontational. A review by Ben Brantley. PAGE C1
STEALTHY BEST SELLER ABOUT SUICIDE
''Thirteen Reasons Why,'' a novel about a 16-year-old who records a series of audiotapes before committing suicide, has quietly climbed its way up best-seller lists for young adult readers and developed an ardent following. PAGE C3
A Tribute to Chopin's Chamber Music C3
BEAR'S FAST AND FURIOUS END
In ''House of Cards,'' William D. Cohan offers a look into the swift collapse of Bear Stearns and turns complex financial maneuvering into gripping drama easily understood by the lay reader. A review by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C4
WAR AS WOMEN'S WORK
Neil Genzlinger writes that audiences suffering from war-story fatigue would be doing themselves a disservice by missing the revelatory and disturbing play ''The Lonely Soldier Monologues (Women at War in Iraq),'' written from interviews with female veterans. PAGE C4
SCIENCE
THE PHYSICISTS
Of Wall Street
They are known as ''quants,'' physicists who do quantitative finance. They apply skills they once hoped to use to untangle string theory or the nervous system to making money. And their presence on Wall Street continues, unabated by the economic collapse in this country and abroad. PAGE D1
ADVANCES IN STEM CELL WORK
The president's support of embryonic stem cell research comes at a time when many advances have been made with other sorts of stem cells, Nicholas Wade writes in a news analysis article. PAGE D1
TESTS MAY REVEAL TUMORS' SOURCE
New genetic tests may pinpoint the origin of mystery tumors, which account for 2 percent to 5 percent of all cancer. In some cases, drugs can be matched to a cancer if the origin is clear. PAGE D1
Findings
Significance Is in Eye of Dreamer
Two psychologists have found that college students attached more significance to a negative dream if it was about someone they disliked, and they gave correspondingly more weight to a positive dream if it was about a friend. PAGE D2
NONINVASIVE WILDLIFE RESEARCH
There is a growing trend in wildlife biology toward research methods that are gentler and cheaper than the classic ''capture, mark, recapture.'' Some of the techniques use hair, and others use animal scat. PAGE D3
Mortgages and Mathematical Models D4
Well
Why We Gray
While the arrival of gray hair is relatively predictable, how and why hair ages is not well understood. Unlocking those secrets could lead to a better understanding of the aging process, and of disease. PAGE D5
Cases
When Cancer Runs the Clock
Each phase of cancer -- diagnosis, surgery, radiation and other treatment -- carries its own distinct sense of stepping outside traditional time, its own bitter flavor of dislocation. PAGE D5
Can Daylight Saving Affect Health? D5
Personal Health
Oxygen Therapy Is Found Valuable
Laboratory and clinical studies have found more than a dozen serious diseases for which hyperbaric oxygen therapy is considered a valuable, and sometimes life-saving, treatment. Page D7
Editorial
SCIENCE AND STEM CELLS
We welcome President Obama's decision to lift the Bush administration's restrictions on federal financing for embryonic stem cell research. His move ends a long, bleak period in which the moral objections of religious conservatives were allowed to constrain the progress of a medically important science. But even with this enlightened stance, some promising stem cell research will still be denied federal dollars. Page A22
END THE ROCKEFELLER DRUG LAWS
For 35 years, the Rockefeller drug laws filled the state's prisons with offenders who needed treatment. New York is now on the verge of dismantling that infamous system. All it will take is for Gov. David Paterson and some prosecutors to drop their resistance to a reasonable provision on second-time offenders. Page A22
Op-Ed
BOB HERBERT
American workers were in deep trouble long before the current downturn. Reshaping the economy in the midst of widespread suffering will take time and a great deal of courage. Page A23
IN AFGHANISTAN, LESS CAN BE MORE
As President Obama moves to ramp up the United States' presence in Afghanistan, he might benefit from the lessons learned in Vietnam in the '60s, writes Arthur Keller, a former C.I.A. case officer, in an Op-Ed article. Page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY AP PHOTO/CHARLES SYKES) (pg. A2
 pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); EXTORTION (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); ARRESTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (65%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (61%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (53%); LAYOFFS (52%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (50%); EARL DEVANEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) MADAGASCAR (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TIBET (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (90%); IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011



399 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; KILBARRY JOURNAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: The Factory's Closed, but the Workers Keep Showing Up

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

 BODY:
KILBARRY, Ireland -- What do you do when your employer announces that your company has shut down and that you no longer have a job, effective immediately?
You can take the fatalistic approach and stay home, one more unhappy immigrant in the vast land of the unemployed. Or, like the employees of the Waterford Crystal factory here, which ceased operating in January, you can go to your workplace, occupy the building and refuse to leave.
''We said, 'You're not going to stop people from coming to the place they've worked all their lives, where their family worked, and where they have built up the brand themselves,' '' said Tony Kelly, 51, describing how a crowd of angry employees prevailed on security guards at the headquarters to unlock the front doors and let them in, on Jan. 30. 
A total of 480 people lost their jobs here that day, joining 200 Waterford workers who were laid off in 2008 and thousands more in other companies around Ireland, where the once-powerful economy continues to implode.
Many heard the news by letter or text message. Some of them have been at the headquarters, on the edge of the city of Waterford, continuously since then, socializing, drinking coffee, playing cards and worrying about the future.
They want the factory to open again, of course, and they want to make sure they still have pensions. Even that might be too much to ask for. But beyond the financial issues lies something intangible, something rare in these days of easy-go jobs: a deeply emotional attachment to a place of work.
''Nobody has heard of Waterford in America, but just say, 'Have you heard of Waterford Crystal?' and everyone has,'' said Ian Paul, who has worked here for 42 years, since he was a 15-year-old apprentice, and whose father worked here before him, for 36 years. ''You can forget Waterford if you don't have Waterford Crystal.''
The company itself is not going to go away. Last month, KPS Capital Partners, a private equity company based in New York, announced that it planned to buyWaterford Wedgwood, Waterford Crystal's parent company. KPS said it had no comment about the events at the factory.
The Kilbarry factory would not be part of the sale. But one possible plan would have local business leaders, helped by the Irish government, building a new, smaller factory and an improved tourist center that could employ at least some of the laid-off workers and be a draw for visitors.
Those negotiations are continuing. The crystal company has posted huge losses in the past few years, and much of its manufacturing is already done in factories in cheaper countries abroad. The workers fear that all their experience and all their expertise, not to mention the long history of crystal-making in Waterford, are in danger of disappearing.
''If it's mass-produced, the craftsmanship we have here could be lost forever, so we're fighting for that as well,'' said Mr. Paul, whose job was to repair specialty items like sports trophies.
He was sitting in the office cafeteria, where laid-off workers have been serving meals, hundreds of them a day, to other laid-off workers. Money and food have come from Waterford residents and from restaurants, supermarkets and hotels in town.
Last month, thousands of people marched through the streets of Waterford in sympathy with the workers.
''Waterford Crystal is vitally important to all of us,'' said Yvette Perdue, who works in the Hasbro toy factory up the road and had come to the crystal factory to show support for her friends there. Things are not good in her factory, either: she and her co-workers are now working three-day weeks.
Ms. Perdue said workers all over Ireland were in awe of what the crystal factory employees had done. ''It's their lifeline,'' she said of the occupation. ''They're much better to come out and sit in here than to be sitting around at home.''
Just then, a family of tourists from Utah walked in. The factory is one of southeast Ireland's biggest tourist attractions, drawing some 350,000 visitors a year. Tourists have continued to come since it closed down, either to show their support or because, like this particular family, they are unaware of what is going on here.
Normally, tourists would be shown around the gallery, where the factory's most beautiful items are for sale. Normally a bustling hub, it now looks as if it has been dipped in aspic, a retail version of the 19th-century ''ghost ship'' Mary Celeste, still decorated for Christmas and with receipts and packages to be collected still piled up by the cash registers.
It is also off limits, for insurance reasons. Mr. Paul instead directed the visitors down the hall, where a video about how Waterford crystal is made is showing on a television screen, on a continuous loop. The family saw the red-hot, melted glass being shaped into vases, Champagne flutes, ashtrays and the like. They saw workers shaping, cutting and etching it by hand.
Sean Egan, an engraver, said he had been an apprentice at the factory for a decade, from age 15 to 25, before he was allowed to wield his tools unsupervised. He is 50 now.
''It's extremely hard to learn, and machines can't do it,'' he said. ''It's like playing the piano. You can learn three chords and get away with it, but if you want to learn classical piano, you have to practice all the time.''
When Mr. Egan heard that he had lost his job and came to find the doors locked, he was filled with an outrage similar, he said, to that felt by people thrown out of their homes during the Irish famine.
''That is no way to treat people, to stop them from coming into their own factory,'' he said.
In fact, some of the laid-off workers have been working around the clock, in shifts, to keep the furnace at the factory burning. If it shuts down, it will cost millions of dollars to replace.
Job opportunities were plentiful in the boom years, Mr. Egan said, but he and his co-workers remained loyal to Waterford, even taking pay cuts to help the struggling company stay afloat. ''A lot of people could have walked away,'' he said, ''but we didn't. We stayed here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at the Waterford Crystal factory in Kilbarry, Ireland, on the edge of Waterford, on Jan. 31, the day after they lost their jobs but were let back into the headquarters by security guards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIALL CARSON/PRESS ASSOCIATION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAPS: Waterford Crystal shut down its Kilbarry plant in January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%); TEXT MESSAGING (52%)

COMPANY: KPS CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011



400 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Telecom and Tech Lead Markets Lower

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Mark McDonald contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A slump in technology and telecommunications companies pulled Wall Street lower on Monday, as two major market indexes carved new bear-market lows.
Companies like Google and Novell, Verizon and AT&T dragged down the broader markets as traders worried about a prolonged global downturn.
On Sunday, the World Bank warned that the global economy and global trade volumes would shrink for the first year since World War II as the pervasive downturn hinders economies from China to Eastern Europe to the United States. 
And the investor Warren E. Buffett declared that the economy had ''fallen off a cliff'' in an interview Monday on CNBC.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 79.89 points, or 1.21 percent, to 6,547.05, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was 6.85 points, or 1.0 percent, lower at 676.53. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index declined 25.21 points, or 1.95 percent, to 1,268.64.
For the year, the Dow and the broader S.& P. 500 are down 25 percent, and both indexes have closed lower for four straight weeks as investors get more pessimistic about the government's plans for stabilizing the financial system in the face of a prolonged recession.
''Death by a thousand cuts,'' said Joseph Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading. ''It's just a protracted sell-off. It seems like it's a buyer's strike.''
Meanwhile, the price of oil rose to its highest point since early January as traders speculated that the OPEC cartel was considering cutting output as it prepared to meet this weekend.
Crude oil prices collapsed late last year, falling to under $35 a barrel from highs above $145 as the deepening global downturn slashed demand and pushed oil stockpiles higher. Although prices could always fall as major countries sink deeper into recession, oil prices have inched back in recent weeks and could go higher if the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries reduces output again.
''Will they actually cut?'' said Tom Bentz, senior energy analyst at BNP Paribas. ''I don't know. With prices approaching $50, it makes me wonder if they still feel the same way.''
Crude oil for April delivery settled at $47.07 a barrel, up $1.55 in New York trading. The rise in oil prices helped to lift energy stocks like Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Marathon Oil, which closed moderately higher.
In a shift, financial stocks outperformed all other sectors of the market on Monday, and major banks finished in positive territory, with Bank of America finishing nearly 20 percent higher at $3.75 a share after reports that it would issue debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Wells Fargo rose 15.8 percent, to $9.97 a share and Citigroup gained 2 cents, to $1.05. The gains followed a week of trading that dragged banking stocks sharply lower and sent shares of Citigroup tumbling briefly below $1 a share.
In the second major pharmaceutical deal of the year, the prescription drug maker Merck announced that it would pay $41 billion to acquire a rival, Schering-Plough. Shares of Merck were down 7.7 percent, to $20.99, while Schering-Plough was 14 percent higher at $20.13.
In January, Pfizer, the world's biggest drug maker, bid $68 billion for Wyeth.
Analysts said that investors were glad to get past Friday's grim unemployment numbers, which showed that the economy had shed 651,000 jobs in February. With few major economic reports scheduled to be released this week, investors will probably keep their focus on Washington's plans to shore up the banking system.
Credit markets showed some signs of tightening. The yields on corporate bonds and high-yield debt increased, and the London interbank offered rate, a measure of how much banks charge each other to borrow money, rose to 1.31 percent from 1.29 percent on Friday.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 4/32, to 99 2/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.86 percent, down from 2.87 percent late Friday.
Following are the results of Monday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); RECESSION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (73%); CARTELS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); NOVELL INC (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%); MARATHON OIL CORP (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (52%); MRO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (52%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

 
