

801 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2599 words

HEADLINE: THE SOPHISTICATED TRAVELER: MOSCOW 

BYLINE:  By Richard Lourie; Richard Lourie is the author of "Sakharov: A Biography" (Brandeis University Press/University Press of New England).

 BODY:
Moscow a fun city? To me it seemed no more improbable than Russia a free country, but what did I know -- I'd liked Moscow even under communism. My image of that city is a multiple exposure, what used to be and what was before that. So I decided to perform an experiment. I invited along an old friend , well traveled but never to Russia. A true New Yorker, Martin, a historian, assigns instant reviews to everything. Either he'd like it or he wouldn't. And I'd see the city through his virgin eyes.
 Through my own, I noticed that Aeroflot had elected to keep the hammer and sickle on its logo. What exactly was that -- the past intruding on the present or the past becoming style, national reconciliation through design? The flight was quite up to snuff, but at Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport passport control seemed astonished by the arrival of several international flights; the line backed up through the halls and the stairs and on the escalator that hadn't worked in Soviet times either. Infrastructure is tougher than logos. 
 On the drive into Moscow we slowed to see the tank-trap monument that marks the farthest advance of Hitler's army (the Nazis in Queens!). But we couldn't pull over because of all the traffic entering the new Ikea store right behind it. One bride in white was paying the traditional respect to the war dead, but after decades of standing in line for bread and ugly shoes, the Russians are shopping with a vengeance. 
The approach to the city, once lined with food stores named Food Store, now gaudy with ads, reminds Martin of Madrid. But then come the broad avenues flanked by Stalinist apartments, built of multicolored stone with monumental arches. They are coveted now, because they were so well built, often by German POW's, and also because Stalinism, as a style, is currently in some favor. In fact, Stalin's longest-lasting positive contribution may well be architectural. The seven towering Stalinist wedding-cake skyscrapers that dominate the skyline no longer seem ominous, but even pleasantly retro, to foreign and to Russian eyes.
But nothing can ever quite prepare you for the vertigo of Red Square. Under a great red-brick arch, up the squat gray cobbles and then through the looking glass to St. Basil's and the Kremlin, the beautiful, terrible fairy tale of Russia. Here executions were performed, czars married, missiles rumbled. But what's going on in present-day Red Square is more a zany mix of comedy and commerce. For a few rubles you can have your picture taken with Marx and Engels look-alikes, and, for quite a few more, with the menacing czar who stands in front of the best address in Moscow, 1 Red Square, a restaurant that serves the dishes of old aristocratic Russia while strolling musicians strum balalaikas. 
But there are no Lenin look-alikes and, after heated debate about a proper burial, Lenin is still in his mausoleum, looking better after a recent sprucing. There's a lot of Lenin left in Moscow -- plaques, statues, street names. He made the cut.
Those who didn't -- Stalin, Feliks Dzerzhinsky, founder of the K.G.B., Brezhnev the boring -- initially had their statues lifted by cranes and unceremoniously dumped on the lawn beside the new State Tretyakov Gallery. There were two advantages to that -- the random patterns were a visual imprint of the people's wrath. And kids loved to slide down the greatcoats of dictators. But now they've all been stood back up and supplied with antiseptically factual plaques. New since a year ago were the cases of stone heads behind Stalin whose face had been smashed with a sledgehammer. And he had not been spruced.
History is good for the appetite. The recently founded Cafe Pushkin so perfectly catches the opulence and ambience of early-19th-century Russia that it feels more homage than faux. And the beef stroganoff makes you imagine you're eating in the original. The aristocracy is back in favor, not politically, but as an example of fabled Russian largesse and excess. And Russians need examples. After 84 years of no doubts permitted, they now have to figure out who they are and who they want to be. Everything is fluid, eclectic, electric. 
Later we visit a publisher who, with dry irony, says that in principle, customers from all over Russian could order his books on the Internet; there's only one problem -- they can't pay and he can't deliver. No electronic monetary infrastructure, no zippy distribution system. And he had other problems. He was about to publish a book highly critical of the war in Chechnya that could test the limits of freedom in Putin's Russia. It's not the K.G.B., now the F.S.B., that he fears, but, in a sign of progress, the tax police. Of course, they do arrive heavily armed, in camouflage, with black ski masks, and do not have the reputation of gentlemen. 
But Moscow is booming under Putin. The line between prosperity and poverty remains distinct, if less visible now that the city has been Giulianied clean of bums, the homeless and streetwalkers. Complaining, worrying, the publisher is also expanding; other friends, who once lived in a communal apartment -- eight rooms, 18 people, one bathroom -- now speak offhandedly of their annual vacation to Majorca. There may be a touch of fear in the air; the past may still lean on the present, but Muscovites, cell-phone obsessed, are either too busy working for money or even busier spending it to have much time for trepidation. Moscow is not only something like free but also something like happy. 
Happy to be going to fine restaurants, Moscow having become, of all things, a good eating city (though why not, London has). Theme trumps cuisine. Shinok is built around an idealized Ukrainian farm, complete with horse, goat and peasant lass. Raisky Dvor has walls covered in sayings from Orwell that not that long ago could have cost a person prison time -- dissent as decor. Cafe Margarita has a wild, expressionistic painted door and sometimes an atmosphere to match, tables merging in a bonhomie fueled by vodka and musicians singing songs of the underworld. Oblomov is named for the famously lazy Russian landowner in the 19th-century novel who could see no real point in rising from bed. Mama Zoya's is a riverboat Georgian restaurant; across the water in Gorky Park is the Soviet space shuttle Buran, its future having proved to be in amusement rather than transport. 
An Abkhazian woman reads my coffee dregs -- seven roads that at least lead to riches. They better hurry if I'm going to be able to shop seriously in Moscow. The Tretyakovsky Passage, home to the highest of high-end stores built hard by the Kremlin wall, has an atmosphere of hushed elegance and high security. Dresses start at $20,000. Perfect to dance the night away in any number of clubs, Momo or the Ministry, hot right now. "I expected islands of opulence, but I had no idea they'd be so large," says Martin.
Muscovites still find time for traditional pleasures like the baths -- infernal heat, icy water, slap of birch twigs followed by beer and red caviar sandwiches on buttered bread. Founded in 1896, during Russia's last gilded age, the Sandunovsky are Moscow's oldest baths, but still the top -- posh, lavish, with private booths ideal for snacks or schemes. Less luxurious, the local baths are more colorful, some Russians now mixing a blend of the pagan and New Age nudism, whole families attending. This is a return to roots in a time of flux, a way of throwing off the stress of competition and of steaming a hangover out of the system. Just as in France you can drink more wine than you can at home, so in Russia you can down more vodka than you ever imagined. "More vodka, more fun," says Vladimir Voinovich, Russia's Joseph Heller, one evening, refilling our glasses, and his own. 
In its monuments and squares Moscow is a city that still reveres its writers. Where else could a Metro conductor announce "Turgenev, change for Chekhov and Pushkin"? The Metro is another lasting legacy of Stalin in real estate. Some of the stations are almost hilariously palatial, others truly beautiful -- you're inside a Faberge egg -- all spotlessly clean, and the trains cost something like a dime to ride. Martin pronounces the subway system "more civilized" than New York's. 
Writers were the heroes of czarist and Soviet Russia, but now they've been replaced, as we discover when, by a stroke of luck, we attend the Miss Russia contest. Sipping Champagne and nibbling hors d'oeuvres in front of the New Opera before the contest, we observe the crowd, which is nothing if not expensively dressed, some of the more extreme examples reminding Martin of Jersey Mafia and Long Island Bar Mitzvah -- they've caught up, but they haven't caught on. Here, as everywhere in the city, but here of course especially, there are an inordinate number of beautiful women. Where did they all suddenly come from? Did their genes hibernate through the Soviet years aware of what a life of potatoes and misery does to a woman's looks? 
Suddenly, an enormous commotion, a stampede of TV cameramen and security types in camouflage uniform. We wriggle and elbow our way through the crowd to behold Giorgio Armani emerging from a sleek black town car, resplendent in T-shirt, slacks and sneakers, a deus ex limo. Even the lines on his face seem purposely incised as a fashion statement. A second later Glenn Close is on his arm as they smile their way through flashbulbs and ovation. Why this adoration? Is it simply a hunger for the good life, European style? The traditional imitation of the West? Or does the worship of style touch on something deeper, the sense that now, for the first time, Russians can, and must, design their own their lives and that of their country? And so what better icon than a prince of couture without a hair out of place? 
Martin decides that when visiting Moscow, the more you know, the better. Paris is ours through osmosis, Moscow requires some homework or a guide. The Cathedral of Christ the Savior would be just another bunch of golden cupolas floating over the treetops if its story wasn't known. Stalin had the original cathedral, built to commemorate the Russian victory over Napoleon, blown up to be replaced by the world's largest building with the world's largest Lenin on top, pointing the way to the future with the world's largest index finger, 15 feet long. The spongy ground proved unable to support any such edifice, and it remained a ditch for decades until Khrushchev turned it into the world's largest outdoor swimming pool.
Finally, under Moscow's current, dynamic mayor, Yuri M. Luzhkov, the cathedral was rebuilt at enormous expense. And there, in August 2000, the DNA-identified remains of the last czar, Nicholas II, executed with his family by the Bolsheviks, were sanctified as those of a saint, a historical loop-the-loop if ever there was one. 
Information transforms perception. This is true of travel anywhere, but especially so in Moscow, whose buildings have not only an official history but also a secret one. Without knowing the Soviet legend of the Hotel Moscow's two different wings, the building is just an otherwise unremarkable gray pile. In error, Stalin approved the plans of two different architects. Quaking in terror, they decided to build one wing from each plan. Two heads are better than one in a time when heads are rolling. Across from the Hotel Moscow is another hotel, the National, built at the turn of the last century and immediately more eye catching. But to know that it was Lenin's headquarters after the revolution when he moved the capital from Petersburg to Moscow makes its current luxury all the more piquant. The Lenin Suite now rents for very serious money, as do the women, some dramatic, some demure, who appear in the Art Deco lobby in the late evening.
The true charm of Moscow is in its lanes that begin right off the main street, Tverskaya. Twenty feet away and the city becomes quiet, tree-lined, bucolic. Many of the old buildings are pastel, rose, pale yellow, green, not the grim gray of its old reputation. "No one told me this place was beautiful," says Martin. These quarters are dotted with expensive, amusing shops and little cafe-restaurants like Donna Klara, where cell-phone Russians eat a "biznes lanch." Here everyone speaks some English or is ashamed that they don't. English is de rigueur, cool. A bald and bearded Russian we mistake for another bald and bearded Russian shrugs off our mistake, saying, in easy English: "Goes with the territory."
Martin is in vegetarian ecstasy at the Danilovsky Market, a real (collective) farmers' market with Provence-rivaling Russian tomatoes, spices from Central Asia, fruit from the Caucasus. Inside, butchers attack sides of beef with what look like medieval executioners' axes. At the fish counter, the saleswoman tells me to make a fist and puts a daub of caviar straight from the can for me to sample. A half-kilo -- a little over a pound -- of Malossol runs $80. It's a sale. 
But it's supermarkets, vast, glittery, stocked to the gills, that Muscovites are wild about, so farmers' markets have not yet been gentrified. Their prices are good, and most of the shoppers are those who couldn't make the leap from the sinking ship of the Soviet Union: the aging, pensioners, the urban poor, who sometimes stand with red banners in front of parliament, their mourning of the past going unnoticed in the fever of the present tense.
We pass them on the way to buy tickets for the Bolshoi, Moscow still vibrant with high culture. The hotel wanted $85, it's $20 at the box office. Differentiated price levels are everywhere. Russians pay one price to see the Treasures of the Kremlin, foreigners pay one substantially higher. Sometimes prices are given in rubles, sometimes in YE, which in Russian stands for "conventional units," or, as we call them, dollars. Careful reading pays off. Ninety rubles is about three bucks, whereas 90 conventional units is what we call money. Though the days of the grand looting are over, and the gangsters are either lying low or gone legit, the economy, like everything else, is still a work in progress.
A sense of too much past and not enough future drives Moscow. Part of the city's mad spending spree, refreshing in its vigor and innocence, is a result of being starved for goods for most of the 20th century, but it's also from a feeling of eat, drink and be merry for tomorrow -- who knows. As insurance, Muscovites retain their noir humor. On the highway outside the city, a caravan of squat trucks is hauling radioactive waste to a dump site. It is led by a police escort, blue light flashing. One policeman is at the wheel, the other has his eyes closed, his head resting on his shoulder. "Probably dead," cracks our driver.
In a final attempt at some perspective, we stop by the sprawling red brick Museum of Contemporary Russian History and learn that it is closed for "objectivity." A guide explains that everything about the Soviet experience, especially the 1918-21 Civil War between the Reds and the Whites, is being redone. Come back in a year.
Meanwhile, fragments of the Soviet empire, real or repro, are for sale on the pedestrian mall, the Arbat, or at the gigantic outdoor flea market in Izmailovsky Park. Memories become memorabilia. Tragic tchotchkes.
So how will they put all the pieces together? The gulag and Givenchy. The Internationale and the Internet. What will come of this latest experiment?
The Russians have no idea, and neither do I. But at least my own experiment proved a success. Martin had the time of his life. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A one-man snack bar in front of the Historical Museum, built between 1878 and 1883 in a fanciful Old Russian style. Moscow prices can be marked in either rubles or YE, which stands for "conventional units," also known as dollars.; Left to right, top: Momo, one of the currently hot clubs; satire at the flea market; setting up for dinner at Cafe Pushkin; the Armani shop in Tretyakovsky Passage.; Center: A photo-op with Engels and Marx; GUM, the city's oldest shopping arcade; statue of General Bagration, fatally wounded fighting the French in 1812.; Bottom: Caviar by the kilo; rush hour in the Kievskaya Metro station; in performance at Ministry; street life on the Arbat.; Left to right, top: Here she is - Miss Russia (in red); Glenn Close and Giorgio Armani arrive at the contest; a booth for snacking or scheming at the Sandunovsky Baths; Vanil, opposite the Cathedral of Christ the Savior.; Center: The Monument to the Victories of the Russian People in Space Exploration; an abused statue of Stalin next to the State Tretyakov Gallery.; Bottom: Shinok restaurant's idealized farm.; McLenin in the Izmailkovsky flea market. (Ron Haviv/VII for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (86%); HISTORY (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); AIRLINES (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); RESTAURANTS (64%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SPECIAL SECTIONS 

COMPANY: AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (57%)

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: LOURIE, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (90%) MOSCOW (RUSSIA); RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



802 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Naming the Evildoers 

BYLINE:  By Judith Miller; Judith Miller is a senior writer for The Times and an author, with Stephen Engelberg and William J. Broad, of "Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War."

 BODY:
 MILITANT ISLAM REACHES AMERICA
By Daniel Pipes.
309 pp. New York: W.W. Norton. $25.95.
 THE often bitter debate that raged among academics and national security analysts over whether militant Islam -- or "Islamism," as it became known -- threatened the United States presumably should have ended on 9/11. President Bush's warning to movements and nations that they were either with us or against us implied a worldwide campaign not just against Al Qaeda and the Taliban, but also against other Islamist groups that aimed to replace their own governments with Islamic states, that is, states ruled by Shariah, or Islamic law, as the Islamists defined it.
Bush's words alarmed many militant Islamic groups within the United States. Having denounced American policies and values before 9/11, and encouraged fellow Muslims to donate money to "charities" that financed terrorism abroad, they rushed to condemn the attacks, calling themselves patriots and stressing that Islam stood for peace. But even though Attorney General John Ashcroft asked for and received extraordinary investigative powers of questionable constitutionality, most of these militants need not have worried. The administration has resisted defining militant Islam as the enemy, particularly at home. Bush has been vague about the identity of America's enemies. They were not militant Muslims, nor Islamists who espoused violence, but generic "evildoers," "parasites," those "motivated by hate."
This vagueness is at the heart of the problem Daniel Pipes identifies in "Militant Islam Reaches America," a collection of essays he has written over the past decade. A scholar of the Middle East as well as a habitual polemicist, Pipes argues, in effect, that by failing to identify and target Islamism itself, particularly Islamism within America, the administration misses the point. Since the aim of all Islamists is to install autocratic, anti-Western theocracies in their quasi-secular countries, it does not matter whether they espouse peaceful or violent methods. Democracy for them is simply another means to an end. Once in power, he warns, Islamists would reject democracy, oppose other theological and intellectual views, restrict rights for women and religious minorities, ruin the economies of their countries and oppose Israel, world Jewry, the United States and the West.
In this harsh assessment, Pipes is supported by the miserable record of the militant Islamic regimes in Iran and Sudan, and formerly in Afghanistan -- the only places where Islamism has triumphed. He quotes Ali Belhadj, a leader of the Islamic Salvation Front in Algeria, which was poised to win elections in 1992: "When we are in power, there will be no more elections because God will be ruling." Such blunt statements encouraged Algeria's middle class to permit the army to cancel elections and accept harsh military rule, which continues to this day. An estimated 100,000 Algerians have been killed so far in the struggle.
Pipes is careful to distinguish between Islam, the faith practiced by over a billion Muslims, and Islamism, which he calls a 20th-century totalitarian ideology. He argues persuasively that scholars and officials should emphasize the differences -- that "the great majority" of Muslims disagree with the premises of militant Islam; that the United States should seek neither a "clash of civilizations" (a notion he rejects) nor a confrontation with Islam itself. 
He also disagrees with many scholars and commentators -- Fouad Ajami, Olivier Roy and this reviewer, among others -- who have argued that the militant Islamic trend represented by Osama bin Laden has crested, at least in most Arab lands. On the contrary, he says, Islamism has been "on the ascendant for a full quarter-century," and is becoming ever more so.
Pipes often highlights similarities between the structure and methods of the Islamist groups and those of the fascists and Communists. While he cautions against seeing them as equivalent, his message seems to be that the new Islamic man should be combated with tactics similar to those employed during the cold war. He ignores the cost of America's obsession with Communism -- the perilous flirtation with nuclear annihilation, the violation of civil rights and liberties at home, the often mindless embrace abroad of any movement, however corrupt or autocratic -- including militant Islamist groups -- if it agreed to join the United States in its fight against the Soviet Union. 
Complicit in Islamism's rise, Pipes argues, are the moderate Muslims, who have been silenced by the radicals with a combination of carrots and sticks. He cites not only the financial support that Saudi Arabia and others have provided to the militants, but also the Islamists' intimidation and murder of several of their most articulate critics. But surely the roots of modern Muslim passivity run deeper. Pipes pays too little attention to this key issue, which is a pity, since he argues that supporting moderate Islamic voices is critical to Islamism's defeat.
Close analysis, however, is not Pipes's goal. Unless we focus the war against terror on Islamism, and especially on the Islamists in the United States, he insists, the militants will triumph. Efforts by the two previous administrations to distinguish between "good" and "bad" Islamists -- though understandable given Washington's fear of offending Muslims in general -- were, in his view, self-defeating. He argues persuasively that Washington, in effect, ignored, and even courted, Islamic groups that knowingly fostered terrorism abroad, as long as they remained peaceful within the United States. 
Pipes is at his best on the attack. He convincingly demonstrates that militants have gained legitimacy with the help of "bad advice" given to the United States government by Islamically correct scholars. In another essay he maintains that Islamism is not caused by poverty, citing Saudi Arabia, and he also shows how the Nation of Islam under Louis Farrakhan has fueled anti-Semitism among black Americans. 
Still another essay deplores the extent to which some of the nation's most prominent -- or most vocal -- Islamic groups have defended and endorsed violence against Israeli civilians and used American freedoms to promote the Islamist agenda within the United States. But such sentiments are constitutionally protected speech and should not be confused with support for terrorism, a distinction that Pipes sometimes seems to blur. At the same time, his discussion of the extent to which Islamic groups have defended, and even praised, the criminal escapades of Jamil Al-Amin, better known to Americans over 50 as H. Rap Brown, should give readers concern. So, too, should his description of the government's inept, if ultimately successful, investigation of a Hezbollah cell in North Carolina. 
Blunt and passionate, Pipes's book is occasionally inconsistent, and its policy recommendations sometimes appear ill considered. He endorses ethnic profiling -- "if it is true that most Muslims are not Islamists, it is no less true that all Islamists are Muslims" -- but he fails to discuss its potential dangers. And though he claims to respect Islam and its adherents, he finds that in the war on terror, "all Muslims, unfortunately, are suspect." 
Pipes's intemperate tone can be forgiven because for over a decade now he has been one of the few scholars who have bravely warned of the Islamist threat, and he was often ridiculed for his alarm. Nevertheless, his prescriptions for what he calls the world's most dangerous movement barely mention the need to defend America's secularism, or the extent to which secular laws, values and traditions are under attack not only by militant Muslims but also by the Bush administration and its allies on the Christian right. 
And Pipes devotes scant attention to Israel and the way in which Islamists have been able to capitalize on the outrage so many Muslims feel about what is happening to the Palestinians. While he is correct in arguing that a solution to the Palestinian-Israeli dispute would not destroy Islamism or deflect Islamists' animosity toward Jews, it is worth noting that Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Palestinian Islamist groups were deeply disconcerted by the 1993 Oslo peace accords between the Palestinians and Israelis. Islamism does not exist in a political vacuum.
In this book, Pipes provides what he believes are pragmatic ways to deter and contain Islam's militant trend -- like revising our immigration laws and watching our borders more closely -- while not alienating mainstream Muslims. But he cannot avoid raising the question of whether the problem of Islamism is inherent in Islam itself -- a profound issue on which this book does not dwell. The unpleasant fact is that no Muslim societies offer their people rule of law, economic development and active civil participation. Those that come closest, like Turkey and Malaysia, are the ones that have often brutally enforced secularism. While this is not Pipes's subject, even he cannot resist observing that the "hard work of adjusting Islam to the contemporary world has yet really to begin." Why that should be so remains to be explored.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Blegvad) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%); TALIBAN (79%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); WOMEN (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); LITERATURE (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; PIPES, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ALGERIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

TITLE: MILITANT ISLAM REACHES AMERICA (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



803 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: FALL AND WINTER CRUISES; 
Aboard for the Shorter Haul

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL; EDWIN McDOWELL reports on real estate and travel for The Times.

 BODY:
AFTER the terrorist attacks last Sept. 11 it was widely assumed it would take a long time, perhaps years, for the cruise industry to recover. After all, how many people were likely to fly to Florida or the West Coast to board a cruise ship? 
 The answer was not long in coming, for occupancy on most cruise ships plummeted almost instantly, and remained down for months in some cases. 
 But as cruise lines quickly repositioned their ships away from the eastern Mediterranean as near the United States mainland as possible, much of the fear lessened. And when the new ports and new itineraries were accompanied by steeply discounted fares, as low as half-off, passengers began to trickle back on board. Before long, the trickle became a stream. 
Now the results are in for the first six months of this year: 3.6 million North Americans took cruises, compared with 3.5 million over the same period last year. The cruise industry appears heading for a record 7.4 million passengers by year's end, according to figures compiled by the Cruise Lines International Association from its 23 cruise lines. 
"We were well on track to top seven million last year until the events of Sept. 11," said Mark Conroy, who is chairman of the association as well as president of Radisson Seven Seas. "Despite the tragedy, the industry ended the year with 6.9 million North Americans cruising, a marginal increase over 2000."
Several times before, cruise industry officials said they expected to reach the seven-million-passenger mark. But each time a recession, bad weather or an unlucky star prevented it. Again, the goal appears to be within sight. 
Since some Americans are still hesitant to get on a plane, the ability of many passengers to reach their ships without flying is no doubt helping the industry's recovery. According to Gino F. Marchi of Marchi Travel Service in Galveston, Tex., "What made cruising so attractive to people in this area who want to sail but don't want to fly to board the ship is being able to drive to Galveston or other nearby Gulf ports." 
Ever since the Carnival Celebration began year-round four- and five-day voyages from Galveston almost two years ago, the Marchi agency has booked passengers not only from its backyard but also from Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Austin and other cities within driving distance. 
Before cruise lines began adding many newer and bigger ships, most cruises departed from Florida, and although they still do, port cities that almost never saw a cruise ship before the last few years are making significant inroads. Not until 1998, when the Carnival Elation began sailing from Los Angeles, had a new cruise ship ever been based on the West Coast. Now Los Angeles and San Diego are vibrant ports, especially for cruises to Mexico. 
San Francisco has lagged somewhat since it lost the Seabourn Cruise Line headquarters to Miami almost four years ago and since Seattle and Vancouver became the departure ports of choice for voyages to Alaska. Next summer, though, San Francisco will be the departure port for 11 round-trip voyages to Alaska aboard the Pacific Princess, one of two ships that Princess Cruises bought last month from Renaissance Cruises, which declared Chapter 11 bankruptcy last October. 
As recently as 1999, only one cruise ship called at Seattle, making six visits. This year, it will have attracted 79 sailings, and next year it expects to exceed 100.
On the East Coast, Charleston, S.C., Norfolk, Va., and Baltimore have also benefited from the cruise lines' decision to position some ships closer to passengers. This year, the Port of Baltimore had 23 scheduled cruises, compared with 16 last year.
The Port of New York, which was pressed into service as an emergency command center immediately after 9/11 until February, came back strong and is expected to be even stronger next year. According to the New York City Passenger Ship Terminal, 165 cruises with 465,000 passengers called on New York in 2001, and this year 230 cruise ships will have called here with 630,000 passengers. Next year, the terminal expects about 290 ships with 750,000 passengers.
Given the popularity of Alaska with passengers, its waters will likely be crowded with cruise ships again next summer. Altogether, the cruise ships in Alaska this year had a total of 706,431 berths, compared with 664,520 last year, 6.3 percent more. 
Although the Caribbean is still popular with many cruise passengers and stay-over tourists, its share of visitors from the United States has fallen for nine consecutive years, according to the Caribbean Hotel Association Charitable Trust, a private-public organization responsible for marketing the Caribbean. The cruise industry scheduled 1,938 voyages to the Caribbean this year, 5.2 percent more than last year's 1,842, but still a 5.6 percent drop from the 2,052 in 2000. 
The number of Caribbean cruises scheduled for next year is not yet available, but no falloff is readily apparent. Princess Cruises alone has 111 departures on four ships for the 2003-4 Caribbean season, and all the major lines will have ships in the Caribbean. 
Whatever the destinations, the fleet keeps growing. Fourteen new cruise vessels have already been delivered this year, with at least five more due by January. These are to be followed by 10 next year and 11 in 2004. Sixteen of them were ordered by the Carnival Corporation for its six cruise brands. Norwegian Cruise Line has contracted to buy the substantially completed hull, equipment and materials of the two ships that were being built at the Ingalls shipyard in Pascagoula, Miss. They were intended for the American Classics Voyages Company, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in October.
The bankruptcy filing left the Delta Steamboat Company, owned by American Classics, and its signature paddle wheelers that ply the Mississippi, Tennessee, Ohio and Cumberland Rivers -- the Delta, Mississippi and American Queens -- in limbo for months. But on May 6, the Delaware North Companies, a hospitality and food service company in Buffalo, bought Delta Steamboat at auction. The Mississippi Queen resumed sailings the very next day, and the Delta Queen on Aug. 26. Both ships have full schedules in 2003, as does the American Queen once it resumes cruising on Jan. 18.
The Cruise Lines International Association began tracking short cruises -- two to five days -- by big ships in 1980. That year, 347,000 passengers took those cruises, according to Robert Sharak, executive director of the association; this year, more than 2.5 million passengers are expected to sail on some 1,500 short cruises. 
While short cruises initially meant short distances, the newer and faster ships go farther and farther afield. Carnival alone is offering 31 different voyages of five days or less this year, from 18 North American ports. 
Still, for passengers who prefer longer cruises, there are many to choose from, including four world cruises. They can even have a permanent sailing home, on board the new World of ResidenSea, which has 110 two- to six-bedroom condominium apartments as well as 88 guest suites.
The ship is scheduled to be in Martha's Vineyard today and tomorrow, and in New York from Tuesday to Friday before heading for other ports in the United States, Mexico and the Caribbean. While the condos range to more than $7 million, some owners will rent them for $1,800 to $5,460 a night. The guest suites start at $800 a night, with a three-night minimum.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Norwegian Sky in Seattle, which has become a popular port for cruises to Alaska. (Don Wilson/Port of Seattle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (97%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; TERRORISM; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) WEST USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



804 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Knowing Your Market Value Before You Plead for a Raise 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOEPPEL 

 BODY:
IT was galling: Denise Geiger had just won accolades from her supervisors in her first-year salary review as a special education liaison to public school districts in Queens and Long Island. Then she was offered what she considered a paltry $3,000 raise from pay that she says was already below market rate.
 She figured she was worth a lot more than that. After all, she had amaster's degree in special education and an advanced degree in school district administration from Hostra University. The problem was, she didn't really know what she should be making.
 To find out, she looked around, ultimately landing a job in 1999 as a supervisor at the Young Adult Institute in Bayside, Queens, that paid her $17,000 more than she had been earning and, she says, brought her into parity with her colleagues. 
 "I didn't know what I was worth, and the offer at my first job was pitiful," she said. "Asking for money is always awkward. You need to find a way that's respectful, yet firm. You need to strike a balance."
 The conundrum she faced then is shared by countless employees and job seekers in almost any field today. They dread the prospect of negotiating salary or salary increases largely because they are not sure what they should be asking for and do not want to come across as pushy.
 "It can be brutal and complicated," said Karen Danziger, executive vice president of the Howard-Sloan-Koller Group, a New York media and Internet consulting firm. "It can get messy and deals often fall apart. Most employees don't like negotiating and most don't do it well."
 Now, though, they have a new weapon. Numerous Web sites have emerged that - for prices ranging from $29 to several thousand dollars for multiple reports - provide salary data based on industry, job and geographic region.
 Employers study this information, and unless you're a union worker, self-employed or work at a company with a rigid salary structure, you can use it to negotiate compensation at every phase of employment, from the job interview to annual raises, bonuses, perks and stock options.
 Doing your homework is probably more important now than it was in the heady dot-com years of the late 90's. Back then, technology-astute employees and even those who weren't so technology astute were cashing in on new opportunities for large salaries and bonuses. But the gold rush is long over and experts say the power has shifted back to the employers.
 Still, that doesn't mean you have to sit in silence while they call the shots. Before going to that job interview or asking for a 25 percent raise, you need to find out as much as possible about how much others earn in similar positions and organizations.
 Kate Wendleton, the president of the Five O'Clock Club, a New York career-coaching organization, believes that given the right tools and preparation, most people can learn how to maximize their earning potential or at the very least get their fair market value.
 And Bill Coleman, the senior vice president for compensation at Salary.com, a Web site that provides salary negotiation data and advice, likes to think that sites like his reveal long-buried secrets.
 "The goal of our business to level the playing field and sell quality salary information," he said. "Roll the clock back five years and it was diffcult for the average person to get any salary information. Some employers were annoyed when we went online in 2000. They thought they would lose their advantage."
 Of course, you have to know how to interpret the information. Some overeager employees massage it to make unrealistic demands, according to a human resources director of one of the cuntry's largest direct marketing agencies, who insisted on anonymity.
 One employee who was moving from his company's San Francisco office to New York cited data from salary site to argue for a big raise, and the director had to remind him that his job title and duties would be unchanged and that just moving across the country was not enough to merit the bump in pay he was seeking. Another worker brought in reams of data from a salary site to try to justify his demand for a 68 percent raise; he got 14 percent.
 "Most times, these sites are used to say, 'My pay is low, I should be making much more,' " the director said. "Each situation should be taken independently. A job candidate may be the best thing since sliced bread, but if our expectations aren't the same as theirs, it's a waste of time for everyone."
 Bo Rosser, a 31-year-old Web page producer in Brooklyn, says information she culled from Career Journal.com sharpened her salary-negotiating skills and helped her win a 29 percent pay increase two years ago from her new boss at FeedRoom.com, in online broadband news and video network in Manhattan. "The more information you have, the more comfrotable you fee," she said. "Knowing that Jim Bob down the street is making $60,000 isn't enough."
 Ms. Rosser recently lost her job at FeedRoom and is worried that the current economy will allow less wiggle room for salary negotiation.
 That isn't necessarily the case, according to Ms. Wendleton of the Five O'Clock Club. She and others say following some basic rules can give you an edge in discussing pay, no matter the economic climate. Among her recommendations:
 *Don't start talking about money until you know exactly what the job entails and until you are pretty certain the company considers you a serious candidate. "The person who names their price first loses," she tells clients.
 *Ask frankly how you stack up against the other candidates. The answer might give you some clues about how high you can set your compensation sights.
 *Always have 6 to 10 job possibilities in mind at any one time.
 *Never lie about your salary. If it is lower than you think it should be, explain to prospective employers why you think you are worth more.
 That is what one of her former clients, a 50-year-old pension-fund-portfolio manager from the Upper West Side, did in 1999 and ended up striking gold with a New Jersey technology company that was trying to lowball him. The executive, who insisted on anonymity, rehearsed his pitch in Ms. Wendleton's office before beginning negotiations that lasted several weeks.
 The task he set for himself was to parlay a $50,000 salary at a Manhattan brokerage firm into $200,000. He had been forced to accept a lower-paying job in the recession of the early 1990's, and he wanted to make up for lost time. By speaking with headhunters and others in his industry, he discovered that the position paid $180,000 to $250,000, and he argued that his experience in the public and private markets and in direct investing merited a $200,000 base salary and a $50,000 signing bonus.
 "Sure, it provoked anxiety," said the executive, a graduate of the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. "I'm not a labor lawyer used to negotiating every day. But when it comes to something that matters, I was determined to do it right."
 Last year, he moved to a similar position at the same salary with a Manhattan nonprofit organization. And, he says, negotiations were straightforward and swift.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kate Wendleton, of the Five O'Clock Club, addresses a group in Manhattan on salary negotiations, among other topics. (G. Paul Bernett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%) LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: KOLLER GROUP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SALARY.COM 

INDUSTRY: SIC3469 METAL STAMPINGS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: KOEPPEL, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



805 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-29-02: CRASH COURSE; 
Plea Bargain

BYLINE:  By Dirk Olin; Dirk Olin is the national editor at The American Lawyer.

 BODY:
The recent cases of Michael Kopper, the Enron book-cooker, and John Walker Lindh, the Taliban fellow-traveler, both ended with a practice that, according to Stephen Schulhofer, an N.Y.U. law professor, is wrongly considered almost "inevitable" by most players in the justice system: a plea bargain. Kopper exemplifies one common type -- the white-collar criminal with a good lawyer who agrees to help prosecutors hook bigger fish in exchange for a much lighter sentence than he might otherwise get (and thereby sparing the state the costs of a trial). Lindh typifies the defendant who pleads to avoid the possibility of execution; the government's reward includes not having to expose security sources (or, perhaps, a weak case) if the case goes to trial.
 The Bill of Rights makes no mention of the practice when establishing the fair-trial principle in the Sixth Amendment, but the constitutionality of plea bargaining has been repeatedly upheld, and the bargain's basic dynamic is well known to viewers of pulp TV. In fact, says Albert Alschuler, a University of Chicago law professor, roughly 90 percent of convictions occur when the defendant waives the right to trial and pleads guilty. And most of those pleas involve a deal that reduces punishment. 
 According to George Fisher, a former prosecutor now at Stanford Law School: "The general public tends to regard plea bargaining as too lenient. The defense bar and others of like mind think it too coercive." Schulhofer and Alschuler are among the strongest academic critics of the practice, emphasizing the economic motivation behind it. "Court-appointed defenders are typically paid for only the first 15 or 20 hours' worth of work -- and prosecutors have a strong incentive not to lose," Schulhofer says. "This is a conflict of interest problem."
The efficiency gained by plea bargains outweighs their evils, proponents say. Some members of the so-called law-and-economics school, like Frank Easterbrook, an appellate judge who lectures at the University of Chicago, also claim that plea bargaining gives defendants more autonomy. Fisher counts himself in the middle. He says that the practice is "a skulking truce" but considers it practically unavoidable, if the system is not to grind to a halt, and nowhere near the systemic blight limned by opponents.

A Little History
The plea bargain was a prosecutorial tool used only episodically before the 19th century. "In America," Fisher says, "it can be traced almost to the very emergence of public prosecution -- and public prosecution, although not exclusive to the U.S., developed earlier and more broadly here than most places." But because judges, not prosecutors, controlled most sentencing, plea bargaining was limited to those rare cases in which prosecutors could unilaterally dictate a defendant's sentence. "Not until the crush of civil litigation brought on by the explosion of personal-injury cases in the industrial era did judges begin to appreciate the workload relief plea bargaining promised." In other words, plea bargaining is arguably another outgrowth of late-19th-century industrialization.

1633: Galileo gets house arrest from the Inquisition in exchange for his reciting penitential psalms weekly and recanting Copernican heresies.
1931: Al Capone brags about his light sentence for pleading guilty to tax evasion and Prohibition violations. The judge then declares that he isn't bound by the bargain, and Capone does seven and a half years in Alcatraz.
1969: To avoid execution, James Earl Ray pleads guilty to assassinating Martin Luther King Jr. and gets 99 years.
1973: Spiro Agnew resigns the vice presidency and pleads no contest to the charge of failing to report income; he gets three years' probation and a $10,000 fine (roughly one-third of the amount at issue).
1990: Facing serious federal charges of insider trading, Michael Milken pleads to lesser charges of securities fraud; soon after, his 10-year sentence is reduced to 2 years.

Bargains Abroad
Defenders of American-style plea bargaining point out that its utility is proved by other countries' increasingly explicit adoption of the U.S. model. Once forbidden in most of Europe and technically banned in Japan, plea bargaining has steadily crept into many countries' systems during the past generation. "In Germany, they say it's still controversial," Alschuler says, "but most observers say it happens there now. And Italy went so far as to pass federal legislation formally legalizing it." The Japanese claim that the practice is horrible, but then, Alschuler notes, "they make a very big deal about repentance for your crimes." That need to put remorse on display, which can't exactly be a legal sentence, means that "it's hard to deny that they have something like it." Scandinavian countries largely maintain prohibitions against the practice.

Pop Pleas
* "Return to Paradise" (1998) turns on a complex plea bargain involving Americans caught up in a Malaysian justice system.
* ". . . And Justice for All" (1979) slams the inequities of the criminal justice system, including the ugliness of plea bargaining. (Al Pacino is dragged from the courtroom screaming, "Wanna make a deal?")
* John Proctor struggles with honor, faith and an offer he can't refuse -- or can he? -- in "The Crucible," by Arthur Miller (1953).

Study List
* Overview: "Plea Bargaining's Triumph: A History of Plea Bargaining in America," by George Fisher (due from Stanford University Press in February).
* Arguments for and against: Robert E. Scott and William J. Stuntz's "Plea Bargaining as Contract" and Frank Easterbrook's "Plea Bargaining as Compromise," Yale Law Journal, vol. 101 (1992).
* Trenchant critique: Stephen Schulhofer's "Is Plea Bargaining Inevitable?" Harvard Law Review, vol. 97 (1984).

Game Theory for the Defense
From 'Law's Order,' by David Friedman, of the Santa Clara University School of Law

For a real prisoner's dilemma involving a controversial feature of our legal system, consider plea bargaining.
The prosecutor calls up the defense lawyer and offers a deal. If the client will plead guilty to second-degree murder, the district attorney will drop the charge of first-degree murder. The accused will lose his chance of acquittal, but he will also lose the risk of going to the chair.
Such bargains are widely criticized as a way of letting criminals off lightly. Their actual effect may well be the opposite -- to make punishment more, not less, severe. How can this be? A rational criminal will accept a plea bargain only if doing so makes him better off -- produces, on average, a less severe punishment than going to trial. Does it not follow that the existence of plea bargaining must make punishment less severe?
To see why that is not true, consider the situation of a hypothetical district attorney and the defendants he prosecutes. There are 100 cases a year; the D.A. has a budget of $100,000. With only $1,000 to spend investigating and prosecuting each case, half the defendants will be acquitted. But if the D.A. can get 90 defendants to cop pleas, he can concentrate his resources on the 10 who refuse, spend $10,000 on each case and get a conviction rate of 90 percent.
A defendant faces a 90 percent chance of conviction if he goes to trial and makes his decision accordingly. He will reject any proposed deal that is worse for him than a 90 percent chance of conviction but may well accept one that is less attractive than a 50 percent chance of conviction, leaving him worse off than he would be in a world without plea bargaining. All defendants would be better off if none of them accepted the D.A.'s offer, but each is better off accepting. . . . Individual rationality does not always lead to group rationality.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Galileo before the cardinal. (photograph (top) from Corbis Bettmann); Deal makers, clockwise from top left: Michael Kopper, James Earl Ray, Michael Milken, Spiro Agnew, John Walker Lindh and Al Capone. (top, clockwise from top left: Brett Coomer/Getty Images; Corbis Bettmann; Richard Harbus/Corbis Bettmann; Corbis Bettmann; Alexandria, Va., Sheriff's Department/Agence France-Presse; Corbis Bettmann. bottom: Siede Preis/Getty Images. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLEA AGREEMENTS (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); TALIBAN (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); JUDGES (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); APPEALS COURTS (63%) COURTS; PLEA BARGAINING; SIXTH AMENDMENT (US CONSTITUTION); BILL OF RIGHTS (US); PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LAWYER MEDIA INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (79%) OLIN, DIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



806 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE 

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
Bhutto to Speak
Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister of Pakistan and the first woman to hold that office in an Islamic country, will speak tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the Quick Center for the Arts at Fairfield University.
 She is threatened with imprisonment by President Pervez Musharraf if she returns to Pakistan after being convicted of failing to appear in court to face corruption charges. 
 She was nevertheless re-elected in July to head the Pakistan People's Party founded by her father in 1979, but she has little hope of serving.
Her father was executed by the military regime of General Mohammad Zia ul-Haq for his opposition to the general, while she was consigned to six years in prison or detention. 
During her two terms in office, beginning in 1988, she focused on restoring human rights, stimulating economic growth and navigating a political minefield. Her husband, Asif Ali Zardari, has been in a Pakistan jail since 1999. He was recently convicted corruption and given a seven-year prison sentence.
Tickets to Ms. Bhutto's lecture, which is sponsored by the Frank Jacoby Foundation in Bridgeport, and the Carl and Dorothy Bennett Center for Judaic Studies at the university, are $18. Information: (203) 254-4010.

A Book and Its Cover
Remove the illustrated paper dust jacket from a book and what do you have? A plain vanilla binding that does not merit a second glance. But it was not always so, and an exhibition called "Gleaming Gold, Shining Silver," on view through Oct. 12 in the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library at Yale, celebrates the era of the gorgeously bound book.
More than 200 book covers spanning a period from the 1850's to the first decade of the 20th century were culled by the book historian Sue Allen from a collection of 800 owned by the sculptor and graphic artist Leonard Baskin and his wife, Lisa Unger Baskin. 
Bound in cloth, embellished with gold leaf and silver stamping, stylishly illustrated in Victorian, Art Nouveau or poster modes depending on which was the current fashion, they were effective marketing tools, whether the books were displayed in parlors to lend an air of culture, or were actually read.
Three women who dominated the field of book design are well represented in the exhibition: Margaret Armstrong of Manhattan, Alice Cordelia Morse of Brooklyn and Sara Wyman Whitman of Boston.
Ms. Armstrong is believed to have designed some 314 covers, mostly for Scribner's and Putnam.
The Beinecke, at 121 Wall Street, New Haven, is open free of charge Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Information: (203) 432-8131. 

Theater Workshop
The Theater Artists Workshop in Norwalk will feature a reading of Jean Anouilh's "Antigone" at 3 p.m. today. Theodore Bikel, Keir Dullea, Katie C. Sparer and members of the workshop will conduct the reading. Admission is $10. The workshop is at 5 Gregory Boulevard. Information: (203) 854-6830.

Reception for 2 Artists
The Greenwich Workshop Gallery in Fairfield will hold a reception today from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. for Braldt Bralds and John Weiss.
Mr. Bralds, who is from the Netherlands, paints cats; Mr. Weiss, from Akron, Ohio, paints dogs.
Ten breeds of cats are in one painting by Mr. Bralds. Mr. Weiss is partial to golden retrievers, full figures and portraits. 
To call these painters meticulous is an understatement. Every guard hair, pupil, whisker, toe nail and personality has received loving attention. Canvases are about 28 inches wide and 19 inches high. The show closes Oct. 12.
The gallery's continuous collection of wildlife paintings by Simon Combes, prints of horses by Judy Larson and works by Bonnie Marris, William Phillips, Paul Landry, June Carey, John Buston, Howard Ternping and James Christensen hews to representational techniques applied to subjects ranging from landscapes to American history to Native Americans. The gallery is at 1657 Post Road and open Monday 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Tuesday through Saturday 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Thursday evening until 7.
Information: (203) 255-4613.

What's Under the Inn?
Randall's Ordinary, a North Stonington farmstead owned by the Randall family from 1695 to 1885, is now an inn and restaurant, and on Saturday it will be the site of an archaeological research event from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Dr. Edward Cook of Caprilands Herb Farm and members of the Mashantucket Pequot Museum research staff will lead the program for a limited number of 20 registrants. 
The morning will be spent digging around the homestead for pre-Revolutionary artifacts, requiring participants to wear suitably rough clothes and shoes.
Lunch will be cooked over an open hearth at the inn, using recipes and foods as close to their 400-year-old origins as possible, and the afternoon will feature a series of lectures and walks through woods and 18th-century gardens, focusing on landscaping and farming technologies down through the years. 
The site is on Route 2 , east of the intersection of Routes 184 and 2. 
To register for a fee of $40, including lunch, call (800) 411-9671. 
 ELEANOR CHARLES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); EXHIBITIONS (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); SENTENCING (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); HISTORY (73%); RELIGION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (66%); LIBRARIES (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (53%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



807 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for DR. RAYMOND L. WOOSLEY; 
Terror Adds to Safety Issues Awaiting New F.D.A. Chief

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY 

 BODY:
 AFTER 20 months without a leader, the Food and Drug Administration may be getting one. Last Wednesday, President Bush nominated Dr. Mark B. McClellan, a White House adviser who is an expert in health care economics, to the position. Dr. McClellan, whose confirmation by the Senate is widely expected, would be in charge of one of the biggest and most wide-ranging agencies in Washington, with jurisdiction over products representing 20 percent of every consumer dollar spent. 
 The appointment of a new commissioner has been eagerly awaited by food and medical safety experts. Dr. Raymond L. Woosley, a pharmacologist and vice president for health sciences at the University of Arizona, is known for his research into the safe use of medicine. He spoke on Thursday about the challenges facing Dr. McClellan. JULIE FLAHERTY

Q. What do you see as the most important priority for Dr. McClellan at the F.D.A.?

A. There is a whole new range of priorities after 9/11, so No. 1 has to be an expedited review and approval of drugs for the protection from terrorism. The whole related question of food safety is a critical part of this. Even before 9/11, food safety was a serious problem, and continues to be, with mad cow disease and E. coli and other concerns.
Another major priority, I hope, will be addressing the problems of regulating the dietary supplements that really aren't dietary supplements. The F.D.A. is going to have to start reviewing and regulating them as drugs to protect the public.

Q. Dr. McClellan's background is primarily in Medicare and other health care financing issues that are not part of the F.D.A.'s jurisdiction, and he has little experience in drug safety and food contamination issues. Does that present a problem?

A. Not really. The scope of the responsibilities for this position is so immense. Something like 75 to 80 percent of everything we contact in our day is under the purview and review of the F.D.A. There is no way anyone in that position is going to have the full coverage of expertise needed for that job. So he has to think about what team he needs to assemble to help him fill in the strengths he needs.
The most important thing for this position is the medical background. It will come down to him to say, "Is this drug ready to go to the public?"; to know the medical use of those devices, those drugs, firsthand; the risk-benefit ratio that you learn about in medical school; knowing that medicines can be life-saving but they can also be harmful. Those really have to weigh heavily on the person making those decisions.

Q. How will Dr. McClellan's strength in economics and health policy help him?

A. The agency in the past has operated very much in isolation, but Secretary Thompson Tommy G. Thompson, secretary of health and human services has expressed interest in having the agency be more a member of the team that addresses the needs of the health of the public. The prescription drug benefit discussions -- the commissioner will probably not play a role in those decisions, but by being a spokesperson for the agency, it will help inform the economic decisions that have to take place. And vice versa. If the agency is going to review a drug that will be covered by Medicare, it's going to be exposed to elderly patients in large numbers very quickly, and that has to be part of the safety plan.

Q. A growing number of drugs have been taken off the market, suggesting that the F.D.A. might have been too hasty in approving them. What should the new commissioner be doing about that?

A. I don't think it means they were too hasty. Drugs will always need to be taken off the market. Every drug that goes on the market is an experiment, because you will never know all you need to know about a medication until it is in broad public use. Even if you could study 30,000 patients before a drug goes on the market, you will still have the possibility that there is one in 50,000 that are going to be harmed and the drug will have to come off the market. I've often said we know more about a drug before it goes on the market than we ever have before. Our failing has been what we do once it's on the market. The agency has not been given the resources to adequately monitor and evaluate post-marketing safety of drugs and devices, and that's been the problem. If we had a better safety system we would have drugs approved more quickly.

Q. This appointment comes at a time when the F.D.A. is under growing drug industry pressure to broaden the rules on how drug makers can market their products. How should the new commissioner respond?

A. Marketing affects risk, because marketing affects the people who are exposed to a medication. Drugs are approved with a certain type and pattern of population exposure, so when a drug goes on the market it is approved for use in that population as it was in the studies. But marketing can sometimes drive the drug into new uses, new populations where we don't have any evidence that it will be safe and effective. Good marketing should follow good drug development and not get out in front of it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Raymond L. Woosley 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); FOOD SAFETY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FDA REVIEW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PHARMACOLOGY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); APPROVALS (72%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); E COLI (65%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (51%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; TERRORISM; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); FOOD; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (57%) FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%) FLAHERTY, JULIE; WOOSLEY, RAYMOND (DR); MCCLELLAN, MARK B (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



808 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
For Germans, a Recession Is a Pretty Smooth Ride

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
IT'S hard to think of a cushier place to live through a recession than Germany.
 So what if the unemployment rate is stuck near 10 percent, economic growth is close to zero, and the budget deficit is expected to exceed limits set by the European Union? With Germany's welfare payments, unemployment compensation, not to mention union-negotiated job security, salaries and benefits, life, for many, is still pretty good. 
 The conventional wisdom here is that the German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, won re-election last weekend because he shifted people's attention from the country's deepening downturn to Iraq. But it is also true that voters didn't seem to want to hear politicians talk about how to fix the economy anyway. 
Germans react differently to hard times than Americans, in large part because a recession feels very different here.
In eastern Germany, where unemployment hovers near 20 percent, many people have not had a job since just after the fall of the Berlin Wall. While they are unhappy, they regard their predicament as a fact of life rather than a failure of public policy, to be remedied at the polls. Their living standard on unemployment is often better than it was with the make-work jobs they held during the Communist era. 
Germans are also not as vulnerable to a crashing stock market as Americans. Frankfurt's main stock index is trading at its lowest level in more than five years, and its high-tech index, the Neuer Markt, has collapsed so completely that the Frankfurt stock exchange decided last week to close it. But only one German in five, about 13 million people, owns shares in individual companies. That doesn't approach the United States, where half of all adults own stock, either directly or through employer savings plans. The retirement plans of Germans are likewise not as tied to the market.
In western Germany, signs of penury are hard to find. The luxury carmaker BMW sold more than 180,000 cars here in the first eight months of this year, an 8 percent increase over last year. Sales of Porsches are up too.
Few economists think that the economy can grow at a healthy rate unless German companies are given more freedom to hire and fire workers and unemployment benefits are cut back enough to force chronically jobless people to look for work. But neither Mr. Schroder nor his conservative challenger, Edmund Stoiber, seized on these themes during the campaign. 
"There is no mandate for a change that would allow the government to modernize the economy, and there won't be for a long time," said Thomas Mayer, chief European economist at Deutsche Bank. "This is not the sort of environment that nurtures large-scale rebellion on the part of voters."
Given that, Mr. Mayer figures that Mr. Schroder's new government will be able to generate growth of only 1.5 percent per year, provided the global economy does not suffer a major shock.
Some economists have begun comparing Germany's economy, the world's third largest, to Japan's, the second largest. More than a decade since its bubble economy burst and fell into a gradual, seemingly inexorable decline, Japan still has not confronted its most basic weaknesses.
Germany has muddled along for years, too, though its economic vital signs are not as weak. That, in fact, that may be the problem. "We're like the frog who sits in a pot of slowly boiling water, and doesn't notice that it is killing him," Mr. Mayer said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manning the picket lines in eastern Germany. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BONDS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (61%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (57%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (81%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (81%); BMW (BIT) (81%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (81%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (89%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



809 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Contradictions of a Superpower 

BYLINE:  By Robert Wright; Robert Wright, author of "Nonzero" and "The Moral Animal," is a columnist for Slate.

 BODY:
Presumably President Bush is disappointed by the coverage given his landmark national security manifesto. Reporters, after wading through 13,000 words on his strategic vision, focused mainly on two controversial doctrines: preserving overwhelming American military superiority indefinitely; and pre-emptively attacking nations deemed threatening rather than relying on traditional deterrence. Less was said about the more high-minded stuff, like fostering peace, prosperity and democracy around the world.
 But the narrow focus of the press may have done the president a favor. The more broadly you view the new national security strategy, the clearer its contradictions become. 
 Mr. Bush is right to champion free trade and global prosperity, since an economically integrated world will be a more stable one. And he is right to hope that China in particular stays on the free-market path. But if China, with its 1.2 billion people, does keep up its brisk economic growth, won't the day come when it can match America's defense budget without breaking a sweat? How can America then afford to keep its military so potent as to "dissuade potential adversaries from pursuing a military build-up in hopes of surpassing, or equaling, the power of the United States"?
Apparently the administration is counting on China to undergo a kind of spiritual transformation. "In pursuing advanced military capabilities that can threaten its neighbors in the Asia-Pacific region, China is following an outdated path that, in the end, will hamper its own pursuit of national greatness. In time, China will find that social and political freedom is the only source of that greatness." Meanwhile, the United States will somehow escape this particular epiphany, and will follow the outdated path of pursuing advanced military capabilities that can threaten its neighbors and, for that matter, all polities in the known universe. The Bush report doesn't explain why China won't find this trend alarming and rush to counter it.
Unfortunately for any strategy premised on enduring American hegemony, the decline of great economic and military powers is a perennial of history. So is one major reason for it: the secrets of a superpower's success seep beyond its borders, empowering others. Just ask the Romans who were beset by barbarians using Roman military techniques. Or ask the Chinese who were subdued by Mongols using Chinese weapons technology.
Similarly, as America's free-market philosophy spreads prosperity abroad, and the microelectronic revolution that America started goes global, the American advantage in, for example, precision-guided weaponry will likely fade. The Bush report cheerily observes that free trade "fosters the diffusion of technologies and ideas that increase productivity and opportunity." Indeed.
America has one advantage over the ancient Romans and the 13th-century Chinese. The world is now much closer to being a community of interdependent, law-abiding states, a place where military pre-eminence is not a prerequisite for national security. There are those who think that a superpower facing eventual decline but for now possessing unprecedented influence would be wise to sustain this trend, encouraging respect for international law and the evolution of international policing structures.
President Bush isn't one of these people. In dramatically lowering the threshold for pre-emptive attack, he undermines the civilized world's consensus against unprovoked transborder aggression, a principle central to international law (and to his father's rationale for the Persian Gulf war).
And as for international policing structures: the Bush manifesto says nothing about, say, adding an enforcement mechanism, complete with tough inspections, to the toothless Biological Weapons Convention. Nor does it mention the Chemical Weapons Convention or the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, the world's other two major attempts to police weapons of mass destruction. This omission is striking, given that the Bush vision purports to be organized around the threat of such weapons getting into the hands of rogue states or terrorists. "The gravest danger our Nation faces lies at the crossroads of radicalism and technology," President Bush writes in the introduction to the report.
But the report's biggest failing may lie in ignoring radicalism's intersection with another kind of technology. It is information technology -- satellite TV, Web sites, e-mail, cell phones -- that with growing efficiency will convert amorphous hatred of the United States into the organized radicalism that can employ weapons of mass destruction.
Thus the global diffusion of technology means American policies that generate hatred "on the street" abroad will be more and more likely to lead to terrorism. For that matter, the willingness of foreign governments to join in the fight against such terrorism will itself depend more on public attitudes toward America, thanks to the wave of technologically abetted democratization that the Bush report rightly celebrates and encourages. This rapidly strengthening link between popular sentiment abroad and America's national security is of epic importance, and the national security report's failure to mention it does not inspire confidence.
One thing that creates hatred of America is resentment of its wealth, so the Bush strategy's emphasis on spreading prosperity is welcome. But another big source of hatred is resentment of American power. So the president's insistence that America remain unchallenged global hegemon, and his willingness to attack nations unilaterally even in the absence of clear provocation, is a stance peculiarly ill-suited to the global technological environment that is taking shape.
Defenders of this stance may credit it with a kind of nobility. Mr. Bush seems sincere in wanting to use American power on behalf not just of America but of peace and freedom everywhere. Notwithstanding boilerplate references to coalitions and multilateral institutions, the president's national security strategy puts the burden of saving the world squarely on American shoulders.
Nobility is a nice feature in a president, but not as nice as wisdom. Declaring yourself global sheriff would in any age be generous, since you're bearing a burden that should be shared by all who benefit from global civilization. But in an age when hatred abroad morphs easily into mass murder on your own soil, the line between generosity and martyrdom begins to blur.
And if you do insist on being chief law enforcer in such an age, you should at least try to make sure that the world believes the laws are fair and fairly enforced. Yet the Bush administration, with its limited regard for both international law and world opinion, is making America not just sheriff, but judge, jury and executioner. This strategy could lead to a number of outcomes, but national security isn't among the more likely.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Janusz Kapusta) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); TRENDS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); CLASSICS (66%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY STRATEGY AND TACTICS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: WRIGHT, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



810 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: The Iraq Factor; 
At Home, Most Politics Is Local

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT'S evidently not good politics to politicize the war on Iraq. But politicizing the politicization of the war with Iraq is another matter.
 Ask Mike Feeley, a Democratic Congressional candidate from Colorado and Marine veteran who still has a feel for combat. An upset Mr. Feeley threatened last week to expose every "chicken hawk Republican" running for office if President Bush did not apologize for saying the Democrat-controlled Senate was "not interested in the security of the American people." 
 Mr. Feeley's threat to expose pro-war Republicans who never wore the uniform as part of his race for an open seat in a new suburban Denver district is one of the more novel ways that Iraq and national security have been injected into a campaign so far.
There have been suggestions in the South Dakota Senate race that the incumbent Democrat, Tim Johnson, is suspect because he opposed the 1991 Persian Gulf war. Mr. Johnson countered with support from veterans unhappy that war could be used as a political weapon. In Senate races in Minnesota and South Carolina, the national defense credentials of Democratic candidates have been political fodder for their opponents.
Beyond Washington, where it is all Iraq, all the time, the issue is obviously on the minds of voters as well. One new poll by the Pew Research Center showed that 55 percent of Americans said they had given the prospect of war a great deal of thought, up almost 10 percent in a month. The subject provides persistent political background noise, a distinct hum. But on the campaign trail, it is still the old standby issues of health and hearth that candidates from both parties talk most about and that voters are still interested in, according to analysts and candidates.
Sure, voters want to sound out the contenders on national defense. They then quickly move on to the pocketbook stuff -- Social Security and prescription drug coverage, or jobs and the struggling economy, with the possibility of some specific local issue thrown in.
"When we ask voters to volunteer spontaneously what they wanted to hear about, they said the economy and health care and a whole range of domestic issues as much, if not more, than the war on terrorism," said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center. "My guess is we have two tracks here" with "the national media's focus on the national conversation about Iraq and terrorism." 
In various Senate and House races, both Republicans and Democrats say Iraq is not a predominant topic, perhaps partly because of the sensitivity to being seen as trying to exploit it. Republicans, who revel in national security debates, hope to gain from the focus on Iraq through osmosis, absorbing the benefits without much overt effort. Democrats seem eager to show they are as concerned about security as anyone else.
"Certainly foreign policy and Iraq are going to play a part and that will help Republicans, but when you get down to the local districts voters are going to be making a lot of their decisions on prescription drugs, health care in general and Social Security," said Towson Fraser, a spokesman for the Republican Party of Florida, where a handful of competitive House races are being waged.
So while Democrats fret that their issues have been pushed off the table on Capitol Hill by Iraq, those same Democrats are watching the suspended Congressional debate play out at the local level.
"All of the ads that are being run, all of the dialogue in the campaigns, is about domestic issues," said Richard A. Gephardt, the House Democratic leader, ticking off a list of health and economic concerns.
Social Security remains Topic No. 1 in almost every case. Take the North Carolina Senate race, where Erskine B. Bowles, a Clinton White House chief of staff, and Elizabeth Dole are duking it over retirement security.
"From a campaign standpoint, the candidates have not been talking about Iraq at all," said Scott R. Falmlen, executive director of the North Carolina Democratic Party. "They are talking about Social Security and Medicare in their television ads, and minimum wage a bit."
And they are not talking very nicely. The latest party ad on behalf of Mr. Bowles accuses Mrs. Dole of wanting to privatize Social Security; Mrs. Dole says her opponent is employing "shameless" Clinton-style tactics when it was he who supported his former boss's 1993 plan increasing taxes on Social Security benefits.
That latest charge -- that BillClinton and the Democrats hurt Social Security benefits -- is the new counter to the Democratic effort to show that Republicans will put the sainted Social Security system at risk by allowing investment in the stock market, an idea that looked better a few years ago than it does today. 
"They want to talk about Social Security, fine," said Mitch Bainwol, executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. "We are taking it to 'em."
The landscape appears the same around the country: Social Security and Medicare dominate, followed by drought in South Dakota, textiles in the Carolinas, abortion here and there. So far, Democrats do not seem to get much traction hammering away on the general theme of a sinking economy, but they hope that the 401(k) statements due in the next few weeks will incite voters.
MR. KOHUT said his latest survey showed that on health care and the environment, voters continue to view Democrats with more confidence, while the parties are about even on the economy. Republicans were viewed as more capable of dealing with corporate wrongdoing, a surprise to Democrats since they had hoped that this was their issue. The quick Republican response on accounting reforms seems to have neutralized it.
One potential trouble spot Mr. Kohut saw for Republicans was that if voters perceive President Bush and Republicans as too fixated on foreign policy at the expense of financial security, it could ignite a backlash. But the election is just weeks away.
If voters are hearing most about domestic issues and if Democrats have the advantage there, why do some analysts still see the party as lagging in its drive to reclaim the House? Congressional races are fought district by district, and 50 or fewer are truly in play. In addition, Republicans have been able to fight back on Social Security, and House Republicans can point to passage of a Medicare drug plan, even though Democrats say it falls woefully short.
The war talk and its political power remain a question mark. If Congress quickly adopts a resolution with significant bipartisan support, perhaps it disappears. But Democrats themselves are raising the prospect of extensive floor action that may slow the debate. And then, once a vote occurs, opponents might jump on a lawmaker's position as legitimate grounds for attack.
Then there is the uncertainty of how any move on Iraq by the White House might influence the vote. "The political picture is obviously in flux and might not be sorted out until Election Day," Mr. Kohut said. "There are so many jokers in the deck and potential wild cards that forecasting what the trend might be is fool's work."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Brad Hamann)(pg. 1); (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (87%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); TERRORISM (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ELECTIONS 

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (73%) HULSE, CARL 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (58%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



811 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
The Alliance is Dead. Long Live the New Alliance.

BYLINE:  By JOSEF JOFFE; Josef Joffe is editor of the German weekly Die Zeit and an associate at the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard.

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Germany 

 BODY:
WHERE are those Bolsheviks when you need them?
 It was only a matter of time before the First Law of Alliances would kick in for NATO: Alliances die when they win. This is the underlying reason for Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's coldly calculated anti-American gambit in the run-up to last Sunday's German election. 
 Of course, Germany and America won't sulk in their corners forever. In the end, President Bush will talk to Chancellor Schroder again; in the end, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld will stop snubbing his German counterpart, Peter Struck. Undoubtedly, Joschka Fischer, the old and new German foreign minister who was one of Madeleine Albright's darlings, will soon descend on Washington to chat up Condi Rice and Colin Powell. 
If there is a war against Iraq, the Germans won't close their air space or American bases on their soil to the United States Air Force. And if the United States wins, Germans will show up afterward in a mission of peace and reconstruction. This is the post-election consensus, as it is now shaping up in Berlin.
Nonetheless, the tear in the German-American relationship won't be patched up soon. Alliances die when they win: this truth is more enduring than this particular flare-up. 
No German chancellor would ever have dared to refuse a call from Washington, as Mr. Schroder did, while Moscow's armies were still poised at the gates of Hamburg and West Berlin. Nor would any German chancellor have deliberately pushed the button of anti-Americanism and pacifism for electoral gain.
That it was done in the year 2002 has structural rather than ideological or personal reasons. Germany no longer needs American strategic protection; at least the rent Berlin is willing to pay for this shelter has plummeted. Nor is this the end of the story, for the price America is prepared to pay for alliance cohesion has also dropped.
A MERICAN recalculation of alliance benefits is concisely reflected in the Rumsfeld Doctrine: "The worst thing you can do is allow a coalition to determine what your mission is." Peel off the outer layer of this phrase, and you detect a more ominous message: NATO is dead. At least, "NATO I," the anti-Soviet alliance formed in 1949, is dead.
NATO I, dedicated to the Three Musketeers' principle of "all for one, and one for all," is being replaced by "NATO II." This new alliance is no longer the embodiment of a unilateral security guarantee by the United States to the Europeans, but a collection of nation-states from which Washington draws coalition partners ad hoc.
Or put it this way: NATO II is not a pact, but a pool. Accordingly, in NATO II's first war -- in Afghanistan -- some, but only some, members acted as chosen handmaidens, not as foreordained beneficiaries of American might. 
NATO II will have a variable geometry. Those willing and able will form the coalition du jour when America comes calling. Yesteryear's fixed menu will be replaced by one that allows the United States to pick and choose a la carte.
In 1999, the alliance took in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. This year, at its summit in Prague in November, it is set to induct seven more: Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia, according to American and European officials.
With its 19-plus-7 members, NATO II is going to look like a small United Nations, with the tiny and weak like Latvia coexisting with medium-sized giants like Britain, France and Germany. This is where the Second Law of Alliances comes in: "The larger, the weaker." This heterogeneous apparatus is far too cumbersome to draw strength from sheer numbers.
B UT let's not forget the largest (though informal) newcomer of them all: Vladimir V. Putin's Russia. In what diplomatic historians would (almost) call a reversal of alliances, Russia has (almost) become America's best partner-in-arms. 
Without Moscow's consent, American bases in Central Asia, the soft underbelly of the former Soviet Union, would have remained out of reach during the Afghan campaign. 
Also, the moment Mr. Putin dropped Russia's hostility to missile defense, opposition in China and Europe was all but neutralized.
So, "poisoned" or not (as Ms. Rice characterized it at the low point last week), the German-American relationship is but a small chink in America's new armor. For the alliance is now a moveable coalition. 
Washington can play Russia against the rest of Europe and, within Europe, the smaller countries against the larger ones. 
Poland and some of the other East European newcomers certainly like the Americans in the game because it gives them some leverage against Berlin and Paris. 
Nor is this the end of what you might call a "Kissingerian Game." While Germany will not participate directly in a war against Iraq, France and Britain will in the end go along. These ex-imperial powers have not forgotten their realpolitik.
Meanwhile, the Europeans are anxiously looking at their economies (down) and at the price of oil (up). And they are anxiously peering at the American Gulliver across the sea, trying to figure out what is worse: an America that does go to war, or an America that will go on debating the issue, now and forever.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flanked by American and German flags, an American soldier stands guard at U.S. Army headquarters in Heidelberg, Germany. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (76%); AIR FORCES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ARMED FORCES (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); US AIR FORCE (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) JOFFE, JOSEF; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) GERMANY; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



812 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: You Gotta Have Friends 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: LINCOLN, Neb. 

 BODY:
While in Nebraska this week, I asked a Republican official there about the mood in his state on going to war with Iraq. He had a quick answer: "Ambivalence." People know that Saddam Hussein is a bad guy with bad weapons, he said, but they feel no threat from him. The lingering threats from 9/11 and the weakening economy and stock market are what have Nebraskans on edge. They will, he added, follow the president's lead -- if he makes the case -- but they are ambivalent, and they really don't want to fight this war alone.
 Having just visited a dozen states, I have found this same ambivalence everywhere, and President Bush would do well to heed it. Mind you, I think some of Mr. Bush's wild and crazy unilateralist rhetoric -- STOP ME BEFORE I INVADE AGAIN! -- can be useful now. Suggesting to allies that you will go it alone is often the only way to get them to come along with you. I just hope the Bush team doesn't really intend to implement its new pre-emption strategy alone because in the case of Iraq, most Americans would be very uneasy. Our national interest is best served now by taking on Saddam with as many allies, and as much U.N. cover, as possible -- for four reasons. 
 First, Americans understand that the war against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan was a war of "no choice" -- and millions of Americans would have volunteered to fight there. Iraq, however, is widely perceived as a war of "choice." Yes, Saddam is dangerous, but he poses no immediate threat to us and has proved to be deterrable. Removing him is a legitimate choice, but it is still perceived as precisely that: a choice. Getting the backing of the U.N. and key allies for that choice would be the best way to reassure Americans that it's the right choice at the right time, and rally more of the nation behind any war.
Second, easing that ambivalence by adding allies is critical because of what could be the prolonged nature of this war. The success of any war in Iraq all depends on what happens on Day 3. That is, on Day 1, the U.S. military will topple the Iraqi regime. On Day 2, the Iraqi people will throw rice on U.S. troops for liberating them. Everything depends on what happens on Day 3 -- when, having broken Iraq, we own Iraq.
As I've argued before, America and the world have a real interest in helping Iraqis build a more stable, democratic, decent government on Day 3. Setting up the first progressive Arab state, at the heart of the Arab world, could have a very positive effect on the whole region. It would be a huge undertaking, though, and maybe impossible, given Iraq's fractious history. But to my mind it's the only thing worth debating or doing there -- and to keep the American people on board for such a long-haul project, and to defray the costs, we need allies.
To put it differently, nation-building in Iraq could go one of two ways: like Beirut or like Bosnia. In Beirut in 1982, America was a reluctant nation-builder and had little help, and it all ended badly. In Bosnia, working under a U.N. mandate -- with NATO allies to share the risks and the costs -- America and its friends have been able to sustain a long-term nation-building effort. Bosnia still has a long way to go, but it's no longer an open sore destabilizing Eastern Europe.
Third, it is impossible to predict how Iraqis would react to a prolonged U.S. nation-building occupation, but it is safe to assume that the sooner such an operation would be put under a U.N. umbrella, or some other non-U.S. international framework, the less it would look like American neocolonialism, the less opposition it would engender in the region and therefore the longer it would be sustainable.
And fourth, it's O.K. for the Bush team to talk about its new philosophy of pre-emptive war. But I wouldn't want to live in a world where that became the strategy of every country. At times, pre-emption is necessary, but the more it can be done with allies and U.N. approval, the less likely it is that the doctrine will be abused and the more stable the world will be.
Bottom line: Iraq is a war of choice, not a war of no choice, and it is a war of choice that will require a lot of nation-building if it is to produce a more peaceful Iraq. If the Bush team can enlist the backing of the U.N. and key allies, there is a real chance that such an operation can be successful. If the U.S. can't do that, it should keep Saddam in his box through deterrence and wait for a better strategic environment. Because launching a war of choice in Iraq, with an ambivalent U.S. public and no allies, could make for a frustrating, dangerous and endless Day 3. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); AL-QAEDA (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%) PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



813 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Firing Back From Iraq

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
Iraq's rejection of any new United Nations resolution that toughens the terms of disarmament appeared calculated to widen the gap dividing the United States and Britain from the other big powers at the United Nations as they were struggling to find a common approach to confront Saddam Hussein.
 But if it stands as Iraq's last word, this refusal could also mark the beginning of the transition from diplomacy to war in the Persian Gulf, as President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair were already wheeling their military forces to higher states of readiness. 
 The verbal blast from two of Mr. Hussein's top aides, Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan and Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, made it apparent that Mr. Hussein was seeking to disrupt the Bush administration's diplomacy as American and British diplomats were engaging in urgent consultations with France, Russia and China. 
But the tactic could backfire. The fiery statements from Baghdad may actually please the Bush administration because Iraqi intransigence will make it easier to argue the case for military action. At the same time, the Iraqi defiance may make it more difficult for critics here and abroad to question the Bush administration's unrelenting campaign to bring the Iraq situation to a head.
It seemed possible that Iraq's intervention could further alarm Europeans who are already opposed to or jittery about war and who have argued that no immediate threat to security has been established. That would strengthen the position of those Security Council members who would like the United States and Great Britain to tone down their insistence on tight deadlines and maximalist demands that to some appeared too provocative and, therefore, unlikely to test the possibility for a negotiated outcome.
Baghdad's determination to pre-empt a return of United Nations inspectors without any conditions to hamper their work, on the other hand, shows that Mr. Hussein understands the gravity and potential consequences of the Bush administration's approach, which calls for sending an armed security force with the United Nations inspectors. A team of diplomats from the Security Council's five permanent members would also accompany the inspectors and supervise their work.
And Mr. Aziz's sober warning that "the assault against Iraq will not be a cakewalk" but rather "a fierce war during which the United States will suffer losses they have never sustained for decades," was timed to exploit the concerns expressed by American political and military figures that the task of removing Mr. Hussein's government could devolve into punishing urban warfare and thousands of American casualties.
The Americans and British have been lobbying hard, but with little success, for a dramatically stronger weapons inspection program for Iraq. Washington and London planned to submit a new resolution to the Security Council this coming week with the new terms.
Their draft resolution began to circulate Friday and its text was still being closely held, but diplomats said it declared that Iraq was in "material breach" of past resolutions and carried a threat of force if it did not return to compliance.
It also called on Baghdad to fully disclose information about its hidden weapons programs under a seven-day deadline and then to allow intrusive inspections to verify those disclosures under a further 23-day deadline.
The draft resolution was regarded as provocative by a number of European governments, Western diplomats said, and the hope of opposition within the Security Council may have prompted Baghdad's effort to pre-empt the diplomacy before Washington could win over the other permanent members of the Security Council.
"That can never fly," a German diplomat said after he learned from the French the basic outline of the draft. Germany joins the Security Council as a non-veto member in January and has strongly opposed war with Iraq.
"Even the British have informed the Europeans that they were clearly insisting on a real option for Saddam Hussein," the German diplomat said. "Either there are to be inspections and the destruction of weapons of mass destruction, if they are found, or the destruction of the regime.
"But any text," the diplomat said, "must clearly give the impression that there is a real option, not a zero option or something so narrow, in order to take as quickly as possible a decision on military action."
The Iraqis could not have missed the testimony of three retired four-star American generals who issued a series of cautions in testimony to Congress this week.
Among them was Gen. John P. Hoar, who noted that Mr. Hussein appeared to be preparing for a defense of Baghdad. General Hoar said he feared a "nightmare scenario" of six Iraqi Republican Guard divisions and six additional tank divisions ringed by several thousand antiaircraft guns.
"The result would be high casualties on both sides, as well as in the civilian community," he told the Senate Armed Services Committee. "U.S. forces will certainly prevail, but at what cost? And at what cost as the rest of the world watches while we win and have military rounds exploding in densely populated Iraqi neighborhoods?" he asked.
Separately today, Mr. Hussein dispatched his foreign minister, Naji Sabri, to the capital of his old enemy, Iran, seeking an 11th-hour alliance against the United States.
"Arab and Muslim governments have rejected the option of an attack against Iraq, and the peoples of the region will stand together against an eventual attack," Mr. Sabri said in Tehran.
Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi of Iran met Mr. Sabri at the airport and told reporters, "It is absolutely imperative we make serious efforts to prevent a new war in the region, because the region cannot support a new war" that would touch off "insecurity and instability."
In Arab countries, reports about the American-British draft resolution were touching off other concerns, and Mr. Hussein seemed bent on exploiting them.
Saudi officials have signaled the Bush administration that they would join an American-led campaign to topple Mr. Hussein as long as it is conducted under the mandate of the United Nations.
But one adviser to the Saudi leadership asked after hearing a description of the resolution, "Are they just trying to intimidate him to say no?"
Another Saudi diplomat said he was distraught about the prospects for war. "You know all of the Arab nations would like to wake up tomorrow and hear that this guy has died in his bed. I say that with all heart because the Iraqi people do not deserve this, to be controlled by a crazy guy, but they also do not deserve a war that will be a disaster for the area."
Saudi interests could be affected, as one oil analyst pointed out.
"In Afghanistan, you were bombing opium fields, but in the Middle East you will be bombing oil fields," the Saudi official said, adding that in the latter case, the United States could be hit by soaring oil prices and economic disruption.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tariq Aziz of Iraq warned that invaders would face "a fierce war." (Agence France-Presse); Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov of Russia, left, and Marc Grossman of the State Department began talks in Moscow yesterday on an Iraq resolution. (Reuters); (Associated Press); (CNN; )(Agence France-Presse)(pg. 24) Chart: "The United States and Iraq: A Showdown Unfolds" Military PreparationsIn addition to accelerating training and maintenance for ships and replenishing stocks of bombs, the military planning for a possible attack continued. AUGUST Gen. Tommy R. Franks gave President Bush the most recent of several briefings on the broad outlines of an attack against Iraq. SEPT. General Franks presented President Bush with detailed options for military action including estimating the ground troops, combat aircraft, and aircraft carrier battle groups needed. Military officials said that Central Command planned to send 600 members of its staff to Qatar in November. The move could form the core of a battle staff to run a war against Iraq. Military officials said the United States had asked Britain for permission to base B-2 stealth bombers on Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said a number of countries had privately pledged support for a military offensive, including troops, bases, overflight rights and economic contributions. He did not specify the countries. LOOKING AHEAD -- Should he decide on military action, Mr. Bush still needs to choose which of the detailed options to use. The military would have to mobilize the National Guard and Reserve, move Special Operation forces to bases surrounding Iraq and move additional aircraft carriers, aircraft and armored infantry into the region. United Nations/World StageIraq agreed to "unconditional" weapons inspections four years after the U.N. withdrew its last weapons inspections team. Skeptical of Iraq's promises, the president challenged world leaders and the U.N. to take action against Iraq if it continued its defiance of international resolutions. AUGUST Iraq reversed its refusal to deal with U.N. weapons inspectors, asking Secretary General Kofi Annan to send inspectors to Baghdad for talks. U.N. officials said that weapons inspectors would not go to Iraq to reopen talks unless Saddam Husseins government agreed to abide by the organization's rules on how inspections must be conducted. SEPT. President Bush challenged the U.N. to force Mr. Hussein to disarm and end the repression of the Iraqi people, implying that if it didn't, the United States might take military action. Mr. Annan received a letter from Naji Sabri, foreign minister for Iraq, saying Iraq would allow the unconditional return of U.N. inspectors. Britain asserted in a report that the Iraqi government could launch chemical or biological warheads within 45 minutes of an order to use them and could acquire a nuclear weapon in one to five years. LOOKING AHEAD -- After agreeing on a draft Security Council resolution with Britain, the United States was consulting with France, Russia and China. Iraq rejected any new U.N. resolution with tougher terms of disarmament. The U.S. could refine the draft and bring it back to the council for further negotiation and vote. Domestic DialogueIn June, Mr. Bush told West Point graduates that a first-strike philosophy would be a part of his post-cold war doctrine. Intensive planning for Iraqi action began in July, according to White House officials. AUGUST Republican senators complained that the United States did not possess comprehensive knowledge of Iraqs weapons programs. President Bush said he was listening carefully to a group of Republicans who were warning him against going to war with Iraq, but said he would still make up his own mind. Vice President Dick Cheney presented the administrations rationale for attacking Iraq, warning that Mr. Hussein would have nuclear weapons "fairly soon." SEPT. A day after the Congressional leadership went to the White House, Mr. Bush said that he would seek Congressional approval before taking action against Iraq. Senator Tom Daschle demanded an apology from Mr. Bush for saying that Democrats were "not interested in the security of the American people." Language that many members of Congress considered too broad was dropped from draft resolutions that the White House had proposed authorizing the use of military force. LOOKING AHEAD -- The resolution may draw heavy debate in the Senate but is all but certain to pass. The Senate could pass a resolution with narrower powers, complicating Mr. Bushs plans. If the current version is passed, Mr. Bush would have authorization to use force, but would have to report to Congress every 90 days on the progress of military action. (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (79%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); TONY BLAIR (72%); DICK CHENEY (59%); TOM DASCHLE (53%) TYLER, PATRICK E; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); RAMADAN, TAHA YASSIN (VICE PRES); AZIZ, TARIQ (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%) INDIAN OCEAN (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CHINA (93%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (79%); QATAR (79%); GULF STATES (59%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; RUSSIA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



814 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Blame in Haiti 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Helping Haiti" (editorial, Sept. 25): 
Washington deserves a great share of the blame for Haiti's poverty crisis. 
Last year the International Republican Institute gathered the myriad Haitian political parties (some call them particles) into a coalition named Democratic Convergence. 
 But when the Convergence formed its own parallel government, Washington rewarded that coalition by treating those law breakers as equal to the Haiti's president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Can we imagine Al Gore forming his own government because he did not like the result of the 2000 presidential election? 
 The Bush administration's policy on Haiti, led at the State Department by the archconservative Otto Reich, has been a failure thus far because it is based on a fundamental dislike of Mr. Aristide rather than on the interest of stability in the region.

JEAN JEAN-PIERRE
Spring Valley, N.Y., Sept. 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (84%)

PERSON: AL GORE (57%) JEAN-PIERRE, JEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (95%) HAITI

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



815 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
A Tale of Evil Venture Capital, and a Fair Start-Up

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Despite the sweeping views of Queens and Central Park, the conference room in the Midtown Manhattan law offices of Morrison & Foerster was not exactly a theatrical set. But the performance -- a mock negotiation by a venture capital firm and an entrepreneur that the law firm staged one recent workday -- held the attention of an audience of about 50 lawyers, venture capital managers and business executives.
 As the play made clear, in the current economy the venture capitalists get the best parts. 
 The negotiation involved the future of Terrapin Technologies, a fictional business start-up with promising financial software. Having nearly used up the $1 million raised in 2001 by the president and his co-founder and chief technology officer, Terrapin now needed money to finish its product development and hire marketers.
So the entrepreneur, a character called the Founder, and his adviser, Wily Counsel, agreed to yield chunks of control and potential wealth to the managing general partner of the fictitious venture firm, the Capital Gang, and its lawyer, Crafty Counsel, in return for a $4 million investment.
During the negotiations, the Founder, played by Geoffrey W. Smith, managing director at the Ascent Group, a real venture capital firm, won a few concessions. But he went nowhere on some major issues, like the composition of the board or a provision that would annually dilute the founders' holding by 5 percent. 
The entrepreneurs were hardly in the strong negotiating position that entrepreneurs often found themselves in during the 1990's. "I'm nostalgic for what used to be," said Joseph Bartlett, who played Wily Counsel and who in real life is a partner at Morrison & Foerster.
It became clear that the Founder would be required to get rid of his co-founder. And, while the Capital Gang professed its great admiration for the Founder, Mr. Bartlett stepped out of character to explain that many founding entrepreneurs emerge from such negotiations on very shaky ground.
"If you ask a V.C. what value they add, and you get them after a few drinks, they'll say, 'We replace the C.E.O.,' " he said. And that, he indicated, does not vary with the economic climate. BARNABY J. FEDER

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (95%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAWYERS (78%); STARTUPS (77%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (55%) STOCKS AND BONDS; VENTURE CAPITAL 

COMPANY: MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MORRISON & FOERSTER 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



816 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Young Man in a Bubble, When More Became Less

BYLINE:  By RICHARD EDER

 BODY:
THE CONTRARIANS
A Novel
By Gary Sernovitz
290 pages. Henry Holt & Company. $25.
 "The Contrarians" is a novel of our late unlamented and still lamentable stock market bubble. I'm not certain if it's the first; at any event it manages to be splendidly mordant: partly a matter of how we were fooled, but more painfully (and if you can manage to laugh, comically) of how we fooled ourselves. 
 Of course there is no comparison with the damage of Sept. 11, along with the hundreds of books and artistic projects that seek to evoke, epitomize and learn from it. There, though, we may conceivably find nothing manageable to be learned; whereas the recent and current embarrassment of our riches offers a perfectly clear lesson, even if it is one repeatedly, spectacularly and vainly offered, from the Dutch tulip mania in the 17th century to the British South Sea Bubble in the 18th to any old sidewalk shell game today.
For his high-flying, and then brought-low, embodiment of the times, Gary Sernovitz invents Chris Kelch, prize young stock analyst in the field of communications technology and rated No. 5 in his field by the insider sheets that rate such things. That No. 5 is one of the book's many acute touches.
Kelch, who works for Freshler Feld, a big Wall Street investment bank, is not so much a booted and spurred rider of the wave, as a much-booted, much-spurred ridden beast. He is blindered and insecure, his mere half-million annual compensation a pittance, his goad not so much the need to make more as the status that goes with making more. ("I will work harder," vowed the cart-horse Boxer in "Animal Farm"; nobly pitiful, though, where Kelch is squalidly so.) 
Kelch is a guru, junior grade; not yet one of those who appear confidently on television financial programs, but hoping to get there. His job is to predict earnings and make buy and sell recommendations for the sector he specializes in.
Ostensibly the recommendations, and their nervy effect on a hyper market, are based on independent research and analysis of hundreds of "bits" of data. Thus he boasts to a magazine writer who assures him he is simply looking for background, he "played a role in the efficient distribution of capital through the equity markets." He continues: "The efficient distribution of capital was the foundation of the American economy. End of story."
It is the beginning of Kelch's story, one whose unraveling is the theme of "The Contrarians," a novel of ideas in a tradition not much observed in our own literature but going back at least to Denis Diderot. In this case the ideas are stimulating, the writing swings between extremely clever and overblown, and the novel is something of a mess.
Returning from one of his many trips to tout his services to big investors, Kelch faces an expected challenge and a maggot of doubt. The first is the quarterly earnings report of his hottest stock, the aptly nicknamed Teefog, which -- not at all incidentally to story and theme -- is a valued securities client of Freshler Feld.
The second is a damning magazine profile of a securities analyst and, by extension, the entire stock-rating culture. Its subject is anonymous but recognizable, a portrait by the treacherous journalist who had disclaimed any such intention.
Teefog comes in with earnings a few cents below estimates, not only Kelch's but those of most of his rival analysts. (The "contrarians" of the sardonic title are so many sea gulls on a pier, all facing the same way.) Mr. Sernovitz deftly portrays the atmosphere of crisis, with the overhyped stock plunging, colleagues and clients hammering at Kelch, the firm's floor trader demanding an instant "bad?" "very bad?" "disaster?" (It's the old military clash between combat and intelligence officers.)
A series of scorching scenes makes clear the real relationship between the supposedly independent analysts and the powerful analyzed. A quiet phone call from one of Freshler Feld's senior bankers persuades Kelch not to downgrade the stock of the company whose bonds the firm underwrites.
Meanwhile the damage done by the article spreads. Kelch tries to deny he is the subject of a portrait that pillories Wall Street's role in floating the nationwide stock bubble. Then, coming apart as his irate superiors berate him, he pillories himself. "I am the bubble," he proclaims, vowing to get an honest job.
The effect is rhetorical. The protagonist flails his message without ever becoming it. He is a one-dimensional hysteric whose churning thoughts quite outpower his unsubstantial persona. As for his colleagues and superiors, and a zombie girlfriend, they are with one or two exceptions little more than nightmare emanations produced by Kelch's fatty moral indigestion.
What remains, and it is a lot, is a vivid portrait of the bubble that took trillions of dollars out of the economy while adding hundreds of millions to the fortunes of the insiders: a piratical gambit disguised by the stock market's claim to be the indispensable allocator of the nation's financial resources.
"Possibly the only beneficiaries of that inefficient distribution of capital are the people there, supposedly, to ensure its efficient distribution," concludes the magazine profile of the hapless Kelch.
Mr. Sernovitz, whose previous novel was set at a Wisconsin agricultural fair, has come from the outside to insert himself into the crevices between Wall Street's spoken and unspoken messages, between its house language and its public speech. At the same time some of his most searching reflections and most engaging fictional passages go back to the Midwestern town Kelch hails from.
A generation before, its citizens had nothing but contempt for Wall Street; now, seeing their geese lay golden eggs (the lead not yet showing through), they revere their native son as a guru. The priest asks his mother to ask about investments. And in Kelch's tongue-tied consternation we see the irony.
Picking stocks for pay (lots of it) isn't the same as telling your friends what to buy. The actor playing Othello does not go home to throttle his wife. We mistook a decade-long play for reality, until somebody mugged us before exiting.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Sernovitz (Henry Holt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



817 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Interpublic Presses Agency Star To Play Bigger Role in Hierarchy

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
It's the biggest guessing game on Madison Avenue: what will Donny do?
 Donny is Donny Deutsch, the one-time bad boy of advertising who is chairman and chief executive of one of the industry's hottest agencies, Deutsch in New York. Mr. Deutsch has in recent months come under friendly -- yet intensifying -- pressure from his corporate bosses at the Interpublic Group of Companies. They want him to relinquish the reins at Deutsch and assume a larger role at Interpublic, perhaps taking over one or more of its struggling agencies. 
 Though Mr. Deutsch, 44, is too self-confident to ever play Hamlet, he is torn over his next move. Not one to shy from the spotlight, he has long been ready to assume a more prominent role in the ad business. Even those industry executives who decry what they describe as Mr. Deutsch's bombastic personality and penchant for self-promotion acknowledge his abilities. Being charged with restoring the luster of one of Interpublic's troubled worldwide agency networks like Foote, Cone & Belding or Lowe & Partners would present a challenge aptly suited to Mr. Deutsch's restless nature. 
Even so, Mr. Deutsch frets that joining the ranks of upper management would be akin to embracing the establishment he has always battled, while diminishing the entrepreneurial spirit that has made him successful. Further weighing on Mr. Deutsch are concerns that a previous attempt at giving him a larger corporate role did not work out and that his departure from Deutsch might also disrupt the winning formula there. 
"I like to think I'm an important part of where IPG is going," said Mr. Deutsch, using the industry nickname for Interpublic based on its stock-ticker symbol. "But the thing that still gets me juiced up is building Deutsch."
The success Deutsch achieved with rule-breaking work for marketers like DirecTV, Tommy Hilfiger, Mitsubishi, Revlon and Snapple drew the attention of the acquisitive leaders of Interpublic and the rest of the world's giant agency companies. They all assiduously courted Mr. Deutsch, wooing him to sell the agency he took over in 1984 from his father, David, who founded it 15 years earlier.
After turning down numerous offers, Mr. Deutsch finally agreed to a deal in late 2000 for an estimated $250 million to $275 million in Interpublic stock. About 87 percent of that went to him, the rest to his senior-manager partners at the agency.
"People complained we spent a lot of money," said John J. Dooner Jr., chairman and chief executive at Interpublic in New York. "But everybody recognizes now there's been a great return on investment."
Since the acquisition, Deutsch's billings have increased 53.3 percent, to $2.3 billion from $1.5 billion, despite setbacks like the closing of a Boston office and the loss of the Bank One and Domino's Pizza accounts. Half of Deutsch's billings gains after joining Interpublic have come since January. Marketers like Burger King, Coors, MCI and Starwood have handed Deutsch their business, while current clients like Mitsubishi and Revlon have provided additional assignments.
"Advertising was an area where we had not been successful," said Greg O'Neill, president and chief operating officer at Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America in Cyprus, Calif., a division of the Mitsubishi Motors Company that hired Deutsch in 1998. "But Donny got it right from the start."
"He doesn't sit back; he's involved in our business every day," Mr. O'Neill said. "He's great in a roomful of business people, regardless of the business, and he hires people with similar traits."
Under Deutsch, which has created a campaign for Mitsubishi centered on catchy, unknown rock tunes like "Start the Commotion" by the Wiseguys, Mitsubishi sales in the United States rose 69.2 percent from 1998 to 2001. Through August of this year, they increased 15.4 percent from the period a year ago. Mr. O'Neill recently awarded Deutsch the $25 million assignment to introduce the Mitsubishi brand in Canada, selecting the agency over several based in that country; Deutsch is opening its first office outside the United States, in Toronto, to handle the account.
"Donny is a good chess player, a few moves ahead on the board, which from a strategic point of view is exciting," said Rochelle Udell, executive vice president for creative development and design at Revlon in New York, which is headed by the financier Ronald O. Perelman. "He adds a tremendous vitality."
Mr. Dooner has sought to tap into some of that vitality to benefit Interpublic, with mixed results. An effort to place Mr. Deutsch at the helm of a division known as the Partnership, created in a revamping last year, was abandoned. The chiefs of the other agencies being grouped in the division -- many of them older than Mr. Deutsch -- bristled at the idea of reporting to him.
Mr. Deutsch has had a better reception from colleagues on a leadership council composed of two dozen senior Interpublic managers, who meet regularly to discuss ways that their agencies -- in fields from advertising to public relations to sports marketing -- can work more closely together. Mr. Deutsch's experience in forming divisions at Deutsch to specialize in tasks like direct marketing and interactive marketing makes his participation there welcome.
"His leadership is felt in that environment, and short term that will continue," Mr. Dooner said. "Longer term, I want him to do more, and I expect he'll do more."
How long is the longer term?
"It's appropriate to speculate that probably sooner than later, we'll be looking to expand his leadership qualities," Mr. Dooner replied.
There is little doubt that Interpublic, the world's No. 2 agency company in billings and revenue, could use the help. The industrywide slowdown resulting from the uncertain economy has depressed the financial results for Interpublic along with rivals like the Omnicom Group and the WPP Group.
And Interpublic has some homegrown problems, too. While its largest worldwide agency network, the McCann-Erickson World Group, is thriving, two others, Foote, Cone and Lowe, have been hurt by the loss of major clients, reorganizations and layoffs. As a result, Interpublic's organic revenue growth has slowed and there have been large charges taken to earnings.
Investors have not been pleased. Interpublic shares closed on Friday at $16.32, down 53.3 percent from their 52-week high. "We remain neutral on IPG shares as fundamentals remain weak," Lauren Rich Fine, the analyst who follows advertising for Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report last week.
Certainly, Mr. Deutsch would by no means be the answer to all of Interpublic's difficulties. Still, "he has the potential to be a catalyzing figure at a time when the business needs one," said one senior executive at Interpublic, in spite of whatever qualms linger over "what he was."
In the 1990's, Mr. Deutsch was notorious for shooting from the lip to generate attention for his clients and agency. For a small sneaker brand, British Knights, aimed at fashion-conscious teenagers, a Deutsch campaign sneered, "Your mother wears Nike." For the metropolitan New York Pontiac dealers, the agency produced commercials that likened buying a Japanese car to wanting to watch the Christmas tree being lighted at "Mitsubishi Center." (Yes, Mr. Deutsch acknowledges the irony that years later, he is working for Mitsubishi.)
Mr. Deutsch still can be a lightning rod for controversy. In April, he wrote a commentary for the trade publication Adweek declaring that agencies complaining about a lack of respect from clients "need to look in the mirror" and discover that "maybe a lot of us just aren't as good at what we do as we think we are. Maybe we have to do better."
The article drew scathing retorts from executives like Eric Silver, executive vice president and creative director at Cliff Freeman & Partners in New York. "My point was simple," Mr. Silver said, referring to a letter he wrote, which Adweek published, castigating Mr. Deutsch. "If you're going to tell people, 'You stink,' you better have the goods to back it up."
Mr. Dooner of Interpublic said of Mr. Deutsch: "There's no question if he doesn't like something, he feels compelled to talk about it. And that's fine, though it may create some degree of rub. He's a real person, a bigger-than-life character."
Mr. Deutsch is "balanced, and that balance is demonstrated in his leadership," Mr. Dooner said. "I want to use more of that leadership quality, and I guess we will as time goes on."
One way to accomplish that may be a middle course between Mr. Deutsch's leaving Deutsch and his remaining there. Interpublic could combine Deutsch with Foote, Cone or Lowe, then appoint Mr. Deutsch and his senior managers to run or help run the merged agency.
In the meantime, Mr. Deutsch is dabbling in a different sort of career: television. After appearing often as a guest on "Kudlow & Cramer" on the CNBC cable network, Mr. Deutsch has filled in three times as a host.
"I enjoy doing that," Mr. Deutsch said, adding that there has been "a surprising amount of interest" in his hosting stints in the form of "calls from some of the networks."
So perhaps someday, if you read in this space that Mr. Deutsch took a top post at a big network, it will be owned by NBC rather than IPG.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Deutsch agency created a campaign for Mitsubishi using unknown rock songs. Mitsubishi's United States sales have sharply risen since.; Donny Deutsch has concerns about taking a senior position. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (63%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (96%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (90%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (55%); DRAFTFCB INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCH (AD AGENCY); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; DEUTSCH, DONNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



818 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: A Lone Voice For Regulation At the F.C.C. 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
In a steel band, Michael J. Copps would play the violin.
 The lone Democrat at the top of the Federal Communications Commission, Mr. Copps has sounded a broad regulatory theme at a time when his other colleagues are playing a deregulatory trio. His views, attuned to what for decades was the mainstream approach to regulation of the nation's broadcasters and telephone companies, are now seen by his colleagues as out of step with the new economy. 
 As Michael K. Powell, the F.C.C. chairman, and his two Republican colleagues have begun a process to relax a host of rules -- most notably the regulations that limit the size of the nation's largest media conglomerates -- Mr. Copps has been the only member of the commission to urge caution and voice appreciation for the existing rules. Alone among the commissioners, he has promoted those rules as vital for encouraging diversity of voices, local programming and consumer choice. 
In recent months, Mr. Copps who is 62 and a historian by training, has spoken to trade groups and others about the historic and legal significance of regulating "in the public interest" and the need to keep or restore a host of rules that the other commissioners have generally opposed or been silent about. Some of his top priorities -- preserving the concentration rules, encouraging affirmative action in the workplace at media outlets, and maintaining tough accounting oversight of the telephone giants -- have little support at the rest of the agency.
But he also has an important political patron, Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, for whom he once worked and who now heads the relevant committees that oversee the F.C.C. and set its budget. Should the full Congress come under Democratic control after the election, Mr. Copps may gain considerable influence in slowing down Mr. Powell's deregulatory push, particularly since Mr. Powell's alliance with the two other Republicans at the agency, Kathleen Q. Abernathy and Kevin J. Martin, is fragile.
"There is the potential here to remake our entire media landscape, for better or for worse, for a long time to come," Mr. Copps said in an interview in his office last week. "The stakes are incredibly enormous."
By law, no more than three members of the agency can be from the same political party. Because of partisan wrangling in the Senate, the five-person commission has one vacancy. That has left Mr. Copps a frequent dissenter.
His views and dissents are seen by some members of the commission as quaint -- relics of the Progressive and New Deal eras that Mr. Copps specialized in when he was a history professor at Loyola University of the South. They argue that his admiration for a broad-based "public interest" approach to regulating the marketplace is no longer relevant in the Internet Age, which they see as a time when value of regulations should be measured by a precise economic cost-benefit analysis.
But outside the agency, Mr. Copps has been widely praised by a motley group of consumer organizations, labor unions, small broadcasters and conservative groups who see him as their only ally at the F.C.C. Telecommunications law leaves significant discretion to the regulators to act "in the public interest," and Mr. Copps's supporters see his campaign to apply a broad and historic formulation of that standard as heartening at a time when his colleagues are taking a narrower view in an effort to phase out the government's role in favor of the marketplace.
L. Brent Bozell III, the conservative columnist, former top aide to the former presidential candidate Patrick Buchanan and founder of the Parents Television Council, says Mr. Copps is "a voice in the wilderness" in his effort to curtail sex and violence on the airwaves.
"Copps, more than anyone else in a leadership position at the F.C.C., is concerned with the degradation of culture and the messages directed at children," Mr. Bozell said. 
Mr. Bozell said that when he met with Mr. Powell, the head of the agency, he was told that the commission "doesn't receive a lot of complaints" about the issue. "There is this fear at the F.C.C. about Hollywood and an unwillingness to take a stand," Mr. Bozell said. "Copps has, and I applaud him for it."
Mr. Copps has also had support from Mr. Bozell's major target, the artistic community in Hollywood, for urging the commission not to roll back a series of rules that have limited the size of the nation's largest media companies.
"He understands that to have very few people control so much media is a dangerous thing for democracy, whether it is on the extreme right or extreme left," said Victoria Riskin, president of Writers Guild of America West, which represents 8,500 writers in television, film and news. The guilds representing virtually all of the creative talent in Hollywood have unified against Mr. Powell's efforts to rewrite the rules.
The review of the ownership rules is the most important issue now before the F.C.C. Earlier this month, the commission announced its intention to reconsider the rules, partly because Mr. Powell has been skeptical of them and partly because a federal appeals court has questioned the justification for some of them.
The current rules restrict a newspaper from owning a TV station in the same city. They prevent a media conglomerate from owning two television networks. They prohibit a network from owning stations that broadcast to more than 35 percent of the nation's homes. They restrict a broadcaster from owning two television stations in the same market unless there are at least eight other competitors. And they restrict a company from owning more than eight radio stations in the same market.
Within the F.C.C., Mr. Copps's influence is limited. He has asked that the agency conduct a series of nationwide hearings on the ownership rules and collect evidence by reaching out to a variety of interested parties, from artists to minority broadcasters. When representatives from unions and consumer groups made a similar request at a meeting with Kenneth Ferree, a close F.C.C. colleague of Mr. Powell's and the head of a task force now studying the rules, Mr. Ferree was said by several participants to have dismissed the idea as "an exercise in foot-stomping."
Mr. Copps disagrees."It's not foot-stomping, it's pulse-taking," he said. "We're talking about redrawing the landscape in ways that can't be undone. We need to hold hearings in some of the media markets and talk to a cross section of stakeholders and see what this will do to issues of diversity and localism and voices and choices."
Though his accent has a distinctly Carolina lilt, Mr. Copps is a native of Milwaukee. His family moved in 1959 to Spartanburg, S.C., where he attended Wofford College. Intending to become a lawyer, he changed his mind after falling under the spell of a history professor. He earned his doctorate in American history at the University of North Carolina.
After teaching for four years at Loyola, Mr. Copps came to Washington in 1970 to be a low-level assistant to Senator Hollings. He rose to become Mr. Hollings's chief of staff.
"I was glad to have somebody that erudite," Mr. Hollings said. Mr. Copps is now playing a vital role at the F.C.C., Mr. Hollings said, because Mr. Powell and the rest of the commission have taken such a narrow view of the public interest.
"This fellow said it was a nebulous standard and you cannot categorize it," Mr. Hollings said, referring to a statement Mr. Powell once made about the public interest standard. "He is gung ho on market forces. He is a guy who believes there should be no regulation. That's how he approaches regulation."
Mr. Copps left Mr. Hollings's staff in 1985 be a lobbyist, first for Collins & Aikman and then for the American Meat Institute. For most of the Clinton administration he served at the Commerce Department, rising in 1998 to become the assistant secretary for trade development. Last year, at the urging of Senator Hollings, he was appointed a commissioner by President Bush.
Mr. Copps says his views reflect his strong admiration for the progressives -- from Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson to Franklin D. Roosevelt -- and his devotion to their ideals is in plain sight. Adorning his commission office are wall-sized campaign posters from earlier times. One, a 1932 campaign placard, features two pictures with the phrase: "Roosevelt & Garner -- End Prohibition." Another sports a picture of Harry S. Truman and his favorite slogan: "The Buck Stops Here." 
Asked about a poster of Calvin Coolidge, he replied, "You have to be bipartisan in Washington."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael J. Copps, the sole Democrat on the F.C.C., is concerned about media ownership and the public interest. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); HISTORY (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TELEVISION; RADIO; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (58%) LABATON, STEPHEN; COPPS, MICHAEL J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



819 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Academy of Music in the Land of Sweets 

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Before dawn yesterday 12 riggers with 4 cranes began installing a series of 250-pound panels on the scaffolded facade of the Brooklyn Academy of Music. One by one, as they were unfurled and carefully fitted onto a steel frame that swathed the building's second, third and fourth floors, images of a giant gingerbread house began to emerge. Brightly colored melted sugar outlined with giant jelly beans and slithering Gummi Worms recreated the building's 1907 arched window; peppermint sticks and Gummi Bears formed its cornice moldings and giant M&M's became its frieze. The names of composers like Haydn and Wagner, Brahms and Mozart on the original Beaux-Arts exterior now march down the building's facade in carefully handwritten white icing.
 "It's a little early for Christmas," said Christine McQuade, who came out of her apartment across the street to see what was going on. "I think it's great. It's very festive." 
 There is no chance for passers-by like Ms. McQuade to get so much as a nibble of this giant confection, however; the gingerbread facade is an eight-panel photograph digitally blown up and printed on vinyl mesh. 
It measures some 300 feet wide and 60 feet high to match the exact scale of the academy, and is no seasonal sweet. It is intended to wrap the building for two years, attached to a carefully engineered shroud of scaffolding that stands about 10 feet from the facade, during an $8.6 million restoration of the landmark building's exterior.
The work, organized by the Public Art Fund, a nonprofit organization that presents art around the city, is the creation of a 41-year-old Brazilian photographer, Vik Muniz, and the Soutine Bakery in Manhattan. Target, the discount store chain, has sponsored the $150,000 project. 
"The gingerbread house is going to bring a smile to everyone's face," said Joseph V. Melillo, the executive producer of the academy, which will maintain a full performance schedule during the renovation and will celebrate the 20th anniversary of its Next Wave Festival, which kicks off its fall season tomorrow.
"As soon as we realized that the building was going to be wrapped in netting for the next two years," Mr. Melillo said, "we called the Public Art Fund and asked them to do something with us."
The project is being designed and overseen by the New York architects Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates, who have the task of carefully cleaning decades of deterioration and restoring the terra-cotta ornament, replacing cracked brickwork and lintels and refurbishing the stained glass windows. Financing for the restoration of the building, which the academy rents from the city for $1 a year, came from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, with support from the New York City Council and the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, along with the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation.
Matching the right artist to the right kind of project took months of discussions. From the start it was decided that the artist had to be Brooklyn based, preferably from the academy's neighborhood, Fort Greene. 
"We struggled a lot with whether we wanted to think of the facade as a canvas and do a wall of colors, or project a work of video art onto the building," said Tom Eccles, director of the Public Art Fund. 
"Some of the most interesting work these days is made through photography," Mr. Eccles added, "We've continuously thought about how we might embrace this medium in a public context."
When Mr. Eccles approached Mr. Muniz about doing a work of public art, the photographer said he replied: " 'I'm slow. It takes me a good year to think something up.' But he said he couldn't wait. How would I feel about wrapping BAM with a photograph?" 
Mr. Muniz, who lives near the academy, said the building had always been one of his favorites. "I'm a fan of American architecture," he said. "For years whenever I passed the building, I thought it looked like a giant cake. It's very festive." 
He began by making simple sketches of the building as a gingerbread house, then broke them down into panels and wrapped them around a model of a cardboard house. When Mr. Muniz got something workable, he took it to the Soutine Bakery in Manhattan, which baked panels of real gingerbread two feet tall and a foot wide, each matching a different portion of the building's facade.
"It's 100 percent edible," said Barry Rosenberg, one of the bakery's owners, who, with his wife, Madge, has created cakes resembling other well-known buildings around New York like the AT&T building and the Conde Nast headquarters at 4 Times Square. It may have been edible when it was first made, but it has since gone the way of all perishables.
Mr. Muniz photographed each gingerbread panel, which was digitally blown up to the exact measurements of the Academy of Music and then printed on a thin vinyl mesh. Meanwhile the scaffolding that was already in place was strengthened to hold the weight of the panels.
The strengthening of the scaffolding with a steel frame and additional cable supports has been going on for the last two weeks, said Jim Ramsburgh, a vice president of Empire Erectors, a company that installs billboards and signs all over the city.
That was the tough part, Mr. Ramsburgh said. "This is the easy part," he said, as one of the panels was hoisted up the side of the building much as though it were a sail on a boat, and then smoothed into place. "We are trying to install each panel as tightly as possible without breaks between them so as not to lose any of the image." 
"Candy BAM," as the project has been christened, comes at a particularly important time in the academy's history: after the Sept. 11 attacks, as at many cultural institutions, attendance plummeted. 
The project also coincides with major plans to develop the surrounding area to encourage local artists and provide more spaces for performing arts groups as well as artists' studios. Harvey Lichtenstein, the academy's impresario for 31 years, retired two years ago to become chairman of the Brooklyn Academy of Music Local Development Corporation, a 10-year $633 million plan to build art spaces and low-income loft housing in Fort Greene.
"There is a general insecurity regarding cultural philanthropy because of the economy," said Karen Brooks Hopkins, the academy's president."There is also concern about the state of the city budget."
Ms. Hopkins said she believed that in some ways things were worse now for cultural institutions than they were just after Sept. 11. "After 9/11 we all got special money," she said, "but now we're dealing with the consequences of the action. Fortunately our tickets have wings. We're 70 percent toward our budget projection and the festival hasn't even opened yet."
Some 400,000 people come to the academy to see performances every year, Ms. Hopkins said. Of those about half come from Manhattan, about 45 percent from Brooklyn and 5 percent from other parts of the country and the world. 
"We want to bring more of Brooklyn to BAM," Ms. Hopkins added, noting that the recent increase of the number of artists who now live and work there has grown significantly. 
For the first time the academy is collaborating with the Brooklyn Museum of Art. The museum has organized an exhibition called "BAM! BAM! BAM!," a large scale, multi-channel video and sound installation celebrating the Next Wave Festival, in the museum's 25-foot-high Hall of Americas. Visitors will enter a floating tent, recline on oversize cushioned platforms and watch video selections from the festival's performances overhead. WNYC-FM (93.9) will feature programming related to the festival, including a live broadcast tomorrow night of the New York premiere of "Galileo Galilei," Philip Glass's new opera. And on Saturday WNET, Channel 13 in New York, will have a daylong broadcast of programs by or about the festival's artists. 
Visual artists have always been part of the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Since the inception of the Next Wave Festival the organizers have asked artists like de Kooning, Lichtenstein and David Hockney to donate work which would be put on view, used for posters and program covers and then sold. The proceeds go toward the academy's public programming. 
This season Dan Cameron, senior curator of the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo has organized the "Next Next Art: Brooklyn," a six-part exhibition devoted to Brooklyn artists that will be on view in the academy's Natman Lounge on the building's ground floor and the Diker Gallery Cafe on the third floor. 
But "Candy BAM" is by far its most visible project this season. It is also the most ambitious example of Mr. Muniz's large photographic work, though not the first in which food has been used to depict a familiar object. 
Once he recreated one of Hans Namuth's canonical photographs of Pollock making one of his famous drip paintings, using chocolate syrup. Mr. Muniz also remade Warhol's portrait of Elizabeth Taylor, in red cayenne pepper, and even created a Medusa's head at the bottom of a plate of spaghetti. 
Mr. Muniz was careful to point out that his "Candy BAM" project was very different from the projects of Christo and his wife, Jeanne-Claude, who have made a career out of wrapping public landmarks like the Pont Neuf in Paris and the Reichstag in Berlin. 
"Their approach is much more physical," Mr. Muniz said. "This is much flatter because the scaffolding is flat. From a distance it will look like a new building." 
The gingerbread house is meant to give passers-by a welcome surprise. "When you do a work of public art, you expose people to something they aren't expecting to see," Mr. Muniz said. "This comes at a time when the city needs some positive energy, something fun."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Brooklyn Academy of Music covered with panels depicting a gingerbread version of the facade, which is being restored. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. E1); The photographer Vic Muniz with his designs for "Candy BAM." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFECTIONERY (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); CHRISTMAS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); CITIES (63%); BAKERIES (62%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HARDY HOLZMAN PFEIFFER ASSOCIATES (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



820 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Debating Ground Zero Architecture and the Value of the Void 

BYLINE:  By SARAH BOXER

 BODY:
The topic was grand: "Monument and Memory." But the debate on Friday night turned out to be simple: Should there be something rather than nothing? Or nothing rather than something?
 On the side of something was Daniel Libeskind, the architect who designed the Jewish Museum in Berlin. On the side of nothing were Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, and Sherwin B. Nuland, the author of "How We Die" (Knopf, 1994). It was the first Columbia University Seminar on Art and Society, held at the New-York Historical Society. And the men were fighting over architecture at ground zero. 
 Mr. Libeskind, whose firm had just been named one of six architectural teams to submit plans for the World Trade Center site, framed the debate. Everyone knows that literature can deal with trauma, time and memory, he said, but what about architecture? Of course it can. To prove it, Mr. Libeskind presented four of his own projects: a housing plan for the site of a former SS headquarters in East Germany (never built); a design for a museum to house the paintings of Felix Nussbaum, a Jewish painter killed at Auschwitz; the Imperial War Museum in Manchester, England; and the Jewish Museum in Berlin. 
Each project, Mr. Libeskind said, was designed to express a different trauma. The spaces in the Felix Nussbaum Museum get more and more cramped as one moves along to symbolize the slow erasure of one man. The Imperial War Museum is built of the shards of a shattered globe to indicate that there have always been wars and that "conflicts make the world as we know it," Mr. Libeskind said. And the zigzagging walls of the Jewish Museum mark the discontinuity of Jewish life in Berlin. 
But new architecture, Mr. Libeskind added, should also move "towards a better life, a new topography." He pointed to a slit he had cut in the wall of the Jewish Museum, which allowed a sliver of light to come through. "You can never be an architect unless you're an optimist," he said.
The can-do, must-do, will-do optimism of Mr. Libeskind seemed to annoy the next speaker, Mr. Wieseltier, the author of "Kaddish," a book of mourning that he wrote after his father died. He got up to defend mourning from the din of architecture. "There is something a little grotesque in the interpretation of ground zero as a lucky break for art," Mr. Wieseltier said. "Lower Manhattan must not be transformed into a vast mausoleum, obviously, but neither must it be transformed into a theme park for advanced architectural taste."
"The spiritual challenge of ground zero is plainly much greater than the architectural challenge," he said. And what can rise to this challenge? Mr. Wieseltier suggested a void and a flag. The flag should be there to say that "we were attacked because we are Americans." The void should be there to give a sense of finality and facticity, he said, to accommodate both "godfulness and godlessness, certainty and doubt, anger and hope." 
In the Jewish tradition, Mr. Wieseltier said, one mourns and remembers not with buildings and things, but with words and rituals. "Those are its most powerful weapons against oblivion." Among the many things crushed on Sept. 11, Mr. Wieseltier said, was the worship of architecture.
Mr. Nuland, a doctor turned philosopher, took up the battle cry against doing and building, too. Americans, he said, always think they must be doing something. They are "not reflective" and "not prone to meditating." But maybe Sept. 11 signaled a switch. 
Mr. Nuland said he that he recently watched hundreds of people walking, standing silently looking at ground zero, "the 16 acres of destroyed lives, vanished bodies and dreams." He said he knew then that this bare field must become ground for meditation. The soul heals naturally, he said, the way the body does. People must "find that in nature which is ours," he added, invoking Wordsworth.
"What I'm proposing is a garden of quiet thought," a place to "renew ourselves." This, Mr. Nuland said, is "how we heal."
Then the fireworks began. Mr. Libeskind stepped over Mr. Nuland's proposal for a garden and landed on Mr. Wieseltier. "I can't agree with your argument against stone and against architecture," he said. "It is the specialty of shallow people to think that literature can replace true space." The audience gasped at Mr. Libeskind's gloves-off attack. But Mr. Wieseltier shrugged it off: "I have been called worse."
Mr. Libeskind went on, defending buildings against words. Everything is physical, he said; Descartes might have thought he was just a mind but he was in fact a body sitting in his bathrobe by his fireplace. Even the Jews did not rely on words alone, he said: they built cemeteries and synagogues. "I always have been a critic of Heidegger, that kind of Nazi notion that language is the home of man," Mr. Libeskind said. "'Language is not the home. We are not at home in language. We are at home at home."
Mr. Wieseltier did not respond, but Mr. Nuland did. "I am offended by the thought that there will be a piece of architecture on that spot," he said, "because ultimately architecture is about the architect." What would you have people think about at ground zero? he asked. "The name Libeskind? The name Gehry?" 
Mr. Libeskind flicked off the attack: "You have a fascist idea of architecture that comes straight from Ayn Rand," he said. "We don't have any more masters of architecture." No Le Corbusier. No Mies van der Rohe. Only builders working for the people. The audience murmured in protest.
Mr. Wieseltier got the last word. "The thing that divides us is materialism," not architecture. "I live and sleep in rooms. I work in rooms. I walk in space." But there is no way that stones and buildings can communicate the highest spiritual ideas, he said. "There is no single greater danger to the cultural life of this society than the rampant teleology of materialism": biological, economic, aesthetic. Will society surrender to the tyranny of matter? 
In the end it boiled down to this. Mr. Wieseltier wants a void with no building in it. Mr. Libeskind, judging from his recent projects, might want a building with a void in it. And Mr. Nuland wants a quiet place with some statues in it. So what will it be? Something with nothing? Nothing with something? Or a garden?

GRAPHIC: Photo: The architect Daniel Libeskind at the inaugural Columbia University Seminar on Art and Society on Friday night. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); WRITERS (89%); HOLOCAUST (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); PAINTING (77%); LITERATURE (76%); HISTORY (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



821 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: And Then There Were Two; 
Prize Is Shared in Conductors' Competition

BYLINE:  By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
Twenty months, five continents, 362 contenders, and now, Saturday night on the stage of Carnegie Hall, it had come down to this: who would walk off the winner of the first worldwide conductors' competition? 
 Who, in particular, would snare the $45,000 prize and a conducting fellowship and symphonic engagements under the tutelage of Lorin Maazel, maestro of 5,000 nights on the podiums of the world's leading ensembles and founder of the competition with the arts philanthropist Alberto W. Vilar? 
 The answer was no one.
It was two.
A 28-year-old woman from Beijing who learned music on a piano handmade by her father, and a 31-year-old man from Bangkok, where Western classical music is rarely played, shared the top honors and $90,000. 
The two laureates, Xian Zhang, (pronounced SHE-an jang) of China, and Bundit Ungrangsee (BUN-dit UN-gran-zay) of Thailand, were given duplicate awards, in a Solomonic decision by the jury led by Mr. Maazel, in his first season as music director of the New York Philharmonic. 
"You are seeing magic," Mr. Maazel told the cheering crowd in the well-filled hall. "This is where classical music is going to go in the next decades."
Other jurors of the inaugural Maazel/Vilar Conductors' Competition were the violinist Kyung-Wha Chung; the cellist Janos Starker; the composer Krzystof Penderecki; Glenn Dicterow, concertmaster of the New York Philharmonic; Yoichiro Omachi, permanent conductor of the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra; Ian Stoutzker, founder of Live Music Now; Etienne Vatelot, the premier French violin maker; and Marcello Viotti, music director of La Fenice Opera in Venice.
With the jurors gazing down from a box, Mr. Ungrangsee, followed by Ms. Zhang, led the Orchestra of St. Luke's in a varied program including showcase pieces like Mendelssohn's Overture to "A Midsummer Night's Dream" and Stravinsky's "Firebird Suite."
It was a sweet triumph for both. Mr. Ungrangsee had begun studying classical guitar as a teenager in Bangkok, where he rarely heard classical music. But at 18 he heard the visiting New York Philharmonic play and, as he said in his application essay, "immediately knew that I wanted to become a conductor." In 1998 he won the Leonard Bernstein Fellowship to study conducting at Tanglewood and is now associate conductor of the Charleston Symphony Orchestra in South Carolina.
Ms. Zhang began her training at 4 on a piano built by her father, who made violins and guitars. She studied the strict Russian musical system, served as conductor in residence at the China Opera House in Beijing and is now music director of the concert orchestra at the University of Cincinnati College Conservatory of Music.
No Americans were among the week's eight semifinalists, although some were among the 56 conductors who competed in six regional rounds starting last year.
Two others of the four finalists, Natalia Luis-Bassa, 35, of Caracas, Venezuela, and Joji Hattori, 32, of Tokyo, received special runner-up awards of $7,500 each, underwritten, Mr. Maazel said, by his 99-year-old father, Lincoln Maazel, a former actor, who had learned that the competition could use a cash infusion.
As the players packed up their instruments and left the stage, and the crowd fell into a hush, a tuxedo-clad Mr. Maazel took the microphone to announce, "There is only one prize, and it can't be shared."
Then he added, "Nevertheless there's no reason there can't be two one prizes."
Mr. Maazel made a point of inviting Mr. Vilar to join him onstage, calling him "perhaps the most remarkable philanthropic contributor to the arts the world has ever seen," although the financier -- whose fortune has been caught up in the recent economic downturn -- did not make a recent payment on his support pledge, requiring Mr. Maazel to hurriedly round up about $700,000, not counting his father's donation, to keep the competition from foundering.
But officials said that Mr. Vilar, who has missed payments to other groups as well, had already given more than $1 million to the competition, in part to cover a film documentary being made about it, and would continue to provide financial support toward its estimated $5 million final cost. About $1.5 million has been spent so far, Mr. Maazel said.
For him and the entrants, he said, it had been a grueling path to the crowns, but not really a contest. "They are not competing with one another," he said, "but with the standards set by the great conductors of the past."
The idea, Mr. Maazel said, went back a decade or more, as he pondered ways to nurture conducting talent in an age when "young musicians are thrown to the lions before they've had a chance to learn their craft."
And so, he said, when he ran into Mr. Vilar in Salzburg in the summer of 2000, and Mr. Vilar asked to underwrite a project, he thought of his young conductors.
Announced at Carnegie Hall in January 2001, the competition for conductors up to the age of 35 drew 362 applicants from 43 countries.
With an executive director, Douglas Beck, formerly head of marketing for ICM Artists, Mr. Maazel viewed and listened to hundreds of video and audio tapes of young conductors and studied their compositions and essays, choosing finally 56 candidates to compete in six regional rounds. The first opened in Tokyo in October 2001. Then followed Bloomington, Ind., in December; Krakow, Poland, in January 2002; London in February; Sao Paulo, Brazil, in April; and Sydney in August.
The workload had gotten to him, acknowledged Mr. Maazel, who found no time to work on his opera, based on George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty-Four." "I was beginning to mutter."
With local jurors, Mr. Maazel then evaluated the candidates in the six cities as they rehearsed Stravinsky, Ravel and a recitative from Mozart, and underwent tests of musicianship that included score and chord identification and a memory test.
"The trouble is," said Mr. Penderecki, one of the later jurors, "anybody who can do this already has three jobs."
Mr. Maazel said he knew what he was searching for, and it was not a finished conductor. "We're looking for the musician in the conductor," he said. In the end, were the candidates making mere music, or making a statement?
Eight made the cut to the semifinals and arrived in New York on Sept. 20. In addition to Ms. Zhang, Mr. Ungrangsee, Ms. Luis-Bass and Mr. Hattori, they included two Australians, Kynan Johns, 27, and Matthew Coorey, 28; Joana Carneiro, 25, from Portugal; and Manfred Hermann Lehner, 30, from Germany.
All gathered with the jurors that Sunday night at a cocktail reception (at which the competitors avoided alcohol) and got a pep talk from Mr. Maazel: "Take a deep breath and serve the music."
Then, before their appearances with the orchestra, Mr. Maazel welcomed each to his hotel suite on Central Park South overlooking the park for an hour's equal opportunity coaching.
Ms. Carneiro, a doctoral student at the University of Michigan, where she served as music director of the Campus Symphony and Philharmonia Orchestras, had the first appointment. "Do you stop here?" she asked Mr. Maazel about one spot in the Sibelius score she was assigned.
"I happen to enjoy stopping there," he said. "I just think it's fun." He paused. "It may be a bad idea."
Later he reminded her, "We're interested in you not imitating what someone else does or even following my suggestions."
Ms. Carneiro hastened out. "I have to write everything down before I forget," she said.
She was followed by another contestant, Mr. Johns of Australia, who had flown in from Tel Aviv -- his Israeli wife narrowly missed a bus bombing after his departure -- where he is resident assistant conductor of the Israel Northern Symphony Orchestra. "I liken the score to a map finder in the car," Mr. Maazel cautioned him. "If you're looking at the arrows, you're going to run into something."
After Monday and Tuesday's trials came the second cut. Mr. Johns, Mr. Coorey, Mr. Lehner and Ms. Carneiro were out. "I guess we can get that beer now," Mr. Johns said to his fellow Australian. 
Ms. Carneiro, however, got a surprise. In special recognition, she was added to Friday night's finalist program, conducting the prelude to Act III of "Lohengrin."
Well before the final judgment, Mr. Maazel, had no trouble predicting the outcome. Everyone was already a winner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bundit Ungrangsee, above left, and Xian Zhang, left, both came out on top in the Maazel/Vilar Conductors' Competition on Saturday at Carnegie Hall. Natalia Luis-Bassa, below, was a finalist. (Photographs by Teddy Maki for The New York Times)(pg. E1); Joji Hattori of Japan was a finalist in the conductors' competition. (Teddy Maki for The New York Times)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); JURY TRIALS (72%); VERDICTS (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (70%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (69%); OPERA (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (90%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); SHAANXI, CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (90%); CHINA (88%); JAPAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



822 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ONLINE; 
Digital Artworks That Play Against Expectations

BYLINE:  By Matthew Mirapaul

 BODY:
Ada1852 is a digital docent. She conducts tours of the online-art site Rhizome.org by replying to questions that are typed and transmitted over the Internet. Through these exchanges, she can respond to a visitor's interests and suggest viewings of specific Internet-based artworks, and then supply links to the pieces.
 Like a human museum guide, Ada1852 occasionally departs from the scripted commentary to make oddly personal remarks. During a recent chat session, the virtual character was asked about a site and replied, "Perhaps I am slipping into madness." 
 Ada1852 is the creation of Christopher Fahey, a New York artist who rewrote an existing artificial-intelligence program so that its bland, computer-generated conversations with people would seem less mechanical. "I did not want to build a person whose primary function was to be a nonperson," Mr. Fahey said. By giving Ada1852 a personality that verges on the disturbed, he is subverting many notions about artificial intelligence.
Mr. Fahey's troubled tour guide is one of five online-art projects commissioned by Rhizome.org, a nonprofit organization in New York. (The new works were to be put online today at rhizome.org
/commissions. Starting Wednesday , they also can be seen at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo.)
With more than 16,000 members, Rhizome is among the most popular virtual communities devoted to the digital arts. It is an online-only meeting place where participants can announce new artworks, request technical assistance or debate obscure issues. (Other sites that focus on digital culture include nettime.org and bbs.thing.net.)
But while most virtual groups are content to carve out a comfortable corner of cyberspace, Rhizome continues to expand its domain. Commissioning the five new works cost $20,000, a substantial sum for such a young genre. Rhizome also has started to sell Internet services to its members, and has a partnership with the New School in Manhattan to offer online-education courses about new-media subjects.
These initiatives are something of an accomplishment for a nonprofit digital-arts group that a year ago wasn't sure it would survive the double whammy of the collapse of the dot-com economy and the cutbacks in arts grants after the attacks of Sept. 11. Mark Tribe, Rhizome's founder, said it had been living from grant to grant.
Gradually, though, Rhizome has acquired an aura of respectability that Internet entities rarely achieve. As a result, Mr. Tribe, 35, is less concerned that his donors -- including the Rockefeller, Jerome and Warhol Foundations -- will desert him. "Things are rosier now," he said.
Karen Helmerson, director of the electronic media and film program at the New York State Council on the Arts, said of Rhizome: "They're definitely established. Straight out of the gate they were demonstrating leadership in the field." She said the agency would support Rhizome for a third year. Rhizome, which has an annual budget of $440,000, has also turned to its members for donations, mounting an annual fund-raising campaign modeled after those for public television. Despite the widespread conviction that everything on the Internet should be available free, the site's members contributed $25,000 last year.
Mr. Tribe founded Rhizome in 1996 while in Berlin. An artist interested in the Internet, he realized that at that time the only way to monitor developments and trade ideas was to attend the digital-art conferences in Europe. He said, "It just seemed like, we all have e-mail, we all have access to the Web, there should be some sort of online space where this kind of exchange could take place."
So Mr. Tribe started an electronic mailing list and about 100 people joined. He soon moved to New York and like innumerable dot-com entrepreneurs set up a Web site. Mr. Tribe said: "It was a time of incredible optimism. There were a lot of people who, like me, truly believed in the transformative potential of the Internet."
Rhizome began as a commercial venture. But by 1998 Mr. Tribe saw that this approach was doomed and applied for nonprofit status. "I turned away from the money before it turned away from me," he said. "Some of my friends were worth hundreds of millions of dollars briefly on paper, and I'm one of the few who still has a job."
Rhizome takes its name from the botanical term for a rootlike structure that grows horizontally, and Mr. Tribe envisioned the site as a grass-roots endeavor. Anyone can post messages on the site, and the content is uncensored.
This openness is not always a delight. For every notice about a new artwork or a forthcoming conference, there are a dozen sophomoric messages. One writer noted last week, "I just discovered that you all seem to be addicted to insulting each other over a safe distance."
As Rhizome has expanded, it has been criticized for being too populist. Ms. Helmerson praised Rhizome for making digital art accessible to general audiences, but not everyone thinks this is so great. Josephine Bosma, a sound artist in the Netherlands and a longtime Rhizome contributor, said the site "might be a nice pool of information on developments in the digital arts, but it lacks critical perspective."
Rhizome may prove to be a valuable resource for historians, however. With nearly seven years of messages in its archive, it documents the Internet's chaotic birth as an aesthetic medium. Someone interested in, say, cyberfeminism in the arts could search for the phrase and receive two dozen links to artworks, interviews and reviews.
Rhizome's database for digital artworks contains more than 700 entries of variable quality. Many of the entries are merely links to other sites, but 200 of them are digital duplicates of the original pieces.
This ArtBase, as Mr. Tribe calls it, provides the raw material for another of its new commissions. "Context Breeder," a clever work by the New York artist John Klima, invites viewers to select four works from the ArtBase. These four choices prompt the appearance of another group of four, and the two sets of four are "crossbred," creating a third set of four works. Pieces that are chosen most frequently become stronger and appear more often on the screen, making them and their "offspring" more likely to be chosen in the future, while rarely chosen works will become extinct.
This is cultural Darwinism applied to the Internet. But is Rhizome itself strong enough to survive? Ada1852 had a ready answer, "Why not?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Klima's Darwinian "Context Breeder" can be seen at Rhizome.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



823 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: After Decline, The Number Of Uninsured Rose in 2001 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
The number of Americans without health insurance rose to 41.2 million last year, an increase of 1.4 million, and small businesses accounted for much of the erosion in coverage, the Census Bureau said today.
 The proportion of the population without insurance also increased, to 14.6 percent in 2001, from 14.2 percent in 2000, the bureau said. 
 Lawmakers and lobbyists said the increase could propel health insurance back to the forefront of national political debate. But even as the need grows, the federal government and the states are less able to provide aid because their revenues have shrunk in the recession. 
The proportion of Americans without insurance declined in 1999 and 2000, after rising relentlessly for a decade, even when the economy was booming.
Economists and health policy experts suggested several reasons for the latest increase in the uninsured: many people lost jobs last year, and employers are the primary source of health insurance for most Americans; rising health costs pushed up premiums, making insurance less affordable; employers passed on more of the costs to workers.
Households at every income level were more likely to be uninsured last year, the Census Bureau said. The change was particularly noticeable among people with moderate and high incomes.
The number of uninsured people with household incomes of $75,000 or more jumped to 6.6 million last year, an increase of 811,000 or 14 percent, from 2000.
Government health insurance programs covered more people last year, the bureau said. Medicaid, the federal-state program for the poor, covered 31.6 million people, up from 29.5 million in 2000, the bureau said.
Coverage appeared to deteriorate for adults, but not for children. The number of uninsured children, which declined in 1999 and 2000, was virtually unchanged last year, at 8.5 million. But the number of uninsured adults rose to 32.7 million, from 31.2 million in 2000.
The Census Bureau said that 11.7 percent of all children, 21.3 percent of poor children and 30.7 percent of all poor people were uninsured for the entire year in 2001.
Robert J. Mills, a statistician at the Census Bureau, said: "The percentage of people covered by employment-based health insurance dropped a point, to 62.6 percent in 2001. That was the principal cause of the overall decrease in health insurance coverage."
Small businesses are much less likely than larger companies to offer health insurance. At companies with fewer than 25 employees, the proportion of workers with health insurance declined last year, to 31.3 percent, but the Census Bureau detected no change at larger companies, where 66 percent of workers have coverage.
Still, employers of all sizes are passing on more of their health costs to workers and retirees.
Kate Sullivan, director of health policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said that many employers, while continuing to subsidize insurance for workers, had reduced subsidies for dependents.
"A lot of insurers are dropping out of the small-group market, and customers are balking at what they have to pay," Ms. Sullivan said. "A small employer with seven employees can easily spend $6,000 a month, nearly $1,000 per employee, for family coverage. Premiums are rising 20 percent a year." 
Leslie M. Lauth, the owner of a microfilm and imaging company in Durango, Colo., said cost was "absolutely the major reason" she no longer provided health insurance for her four employees. Instead, Ms. Lauth said, she offers each worker $75 a month for insurance. But since the employee would also have to pay $75 to $100 a month, she said, the workers generally forgo coverage.
The number of children without insurance leveled off last year, after declining by 1 million in 1999 and by 700,000 in 2000.
"Progress stalled," said Genevieve M. Kenney, an economist at the Urban Institute here. "Kids seem to be holding their own, but they are not making further progress."
In 2001, the Census Bureau said, some children lost health insurance that they had been receiving from their parents' employers, but this decline was offset by an increase in coverage under Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program.
The number of children with employer-sponsored health insurance dropped by 1 million last year, to 46.4 million from 47.4 million in 2000. At the same time, the number of children with government health insurance rose by nearly 1.2 million, to 18.8 million.
Many more children could be enrolled. "Half to three-fourths of all uninsured kids are eligible for Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program," Ms. Kenney said. "In many cases, parents don't know their children could qualify."
States have not used all the money available to them under the Children's Health Insurance Program. When the new fiscal year begins on Tuesday, $1.2 billion of federal money will revert to the Treasury and can be used for other purposes unless Congress preserves it for child health care.
"It would be a huge mistake to let this money disappear," said Thomas A. Scully, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Coverage Gap for the Poor"Half of poor people working full time were uninsured last year, compared with 16 percent of all full-time workers, according to the Census Bureau. Percent of each subgroup without health insurance for all of 2001.(Hispanics can be of any race.) BY RACE OR ETHNIC GROUP White, non-HispanicALL PEOPLE: 10.0THE POOR: 25.5 BlackALL PEOPLE: 19.0THE POOR: 26.2 Asian, Pacific IslanderALL PEOPLE: 18.2THE POOR: 38.3 HispanicALL PEOPLE: 33.2THE POOR: 43.7 BY NATIVITY Born in United StatesALL PEOPLE: 12.2THE POOR: 26.1 Foreign-bornALL PEOPLE: 33.4THE POOR: 55.1 BY WORK, AGES 18-64 Worked full timeALL PEOPLE: 16.0THE POOR: 50.3 Did not workALL PEOPLE: 24.7THE POOR: 36.8 Total, United States ALL PEOPLE: 14.6THE POOR: 30.7 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); CENSUS (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; HEALTH INSURANCE; STATES (US); SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



824 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Selling Our Secrets 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; Bob Herbert is on vacation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
They never learn.
 Remember, a couple of years ago, the scandals about the way corporate giants like Hughes Electronics and Loral Space, led by big Democratic contributors, sold secret U.S. satellite technology to Chinese aerospace companies and semiconductor manufacturers? 
 Remember how right-wingers like me got all worked up about our shortsighted government and venal executives placing the interests of international trade over the needs of national defense? 
I am ashamed to report that the Bush administration is getting ready to let our ever-hungry multinationals do the same thing. This time, however, it would all be legalized. If current legislation (Senate 149, the Export Administration Act) being urged by the White House passed, American executives would be encouraged to sell the fruits of their most advanced research to foreign nationals who may not wish us well. 
The arguments used by the merchants of American defense technology: (1) selling technology overseas that is "mass marketed" here helps bring down our unit cost at home, as well as benefits business; (2) we're only selling it for good uses, even though its "dual use" could help them penetrate our defenses; (3) "foreign availability" -- they could always buy something almost as good from the Germans or French. 
What's more, say the sell-anybody-anything advocates in the Clinton-Bush Commerce Department, because we have an embargo on sales to Iraq, relaxed export rules won't help Saddam.
Last things first: Iraq buys dual-use nuclear components through cutouts who could easily buy them from us. Take high-strength aluminum tubes, for example, which can be used in bicycles -- but a thousand of them in easily hidden gas centrifuges can produce enough weapons-grade uranium for one nuclear bomb every year. Under the proposed law, a country like Russia or Jordan could buy ours and re-sell them to Saddam with no weapons inspectors the wiser. 
You like the composite glass fibers in your tennis racquet? A sinister use is to form the rotors of those centrifuges, and their export has been controlled for 20 years. No more, if those who would sell our technology to multifarious middlemen have their way.
Nor would our embargo on shipments to Iraq stop our leakage of secrets. China's Huawei Technologies, which could not have been built for a decade without exported American technology, violated the U.N. embargo by selling fiber optic products to Saddam. He now uses them in his air defense system to jeopardize U.S. pilots.
We should not fall for the "dual use" dodge. Germany's Siemens, reported Gary Milhollin of the watchdog Wisconsin Project, legally sold Saddam krytron electronic switches, which doctors now use to destroy kidney stones. When Iraq then sought 120 more as "spare parts," it dawned on Siemens that the switches are also used in setting off the chain reaction in nuclear weapons. 
Bush can say that in his 2000 campaign he promised business leaders to lift export controls. But that was before Sept. 11. Now those controls --which worked well for decades against the Soviets -- need strengthening, not weakening. Perhaps our National Security Council has been getting pressure from India and Pakistan, each of which wants our missile technology. By accommodating these nuclear powers, we might gain two allies but would make the world more dangerous. 
America does not need this dirty business. It amounts to only a few billion dollars in sales, and its military misuse -- through copycat "reverse engineering," a Chinese specialty -- costs American taxpayers far more than that to defend against.
A handful of hard-line senators (Jon Kyl, Jesse Helms, Richard Shelby, John McCain and Fred Thompson) wrote Bush this month to stop pushing this bill this year. They urged instead that he create a new bill "that strikes the right balance between national security and trade" lest it cause "public divisions among strong supporters of your administration at a time when cohesiveness is an absolute necessity."
Some old hands remember the predations of yesteryear. Newcomers have to be reminded. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); CENTRIFUGES (67%); FIBER OPTICS (66%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (62%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (57%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (57%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

COMPANY: LORAL CORP (58%); SIEMENS AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (69%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



825 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: The Paradox of Corrupt Yet Effective Leadership 

BYLINE:  By Alan Ehrenhalt; Alan Ehrenhalt, executive editor of Governing magazine, is author of "The Lost City."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Every so often in American politics, we come upon an ethical problem more delicate and more depressing than the existence of outright evil. It is the problem of mackerels in the moonlight.
 John Randolph, the eccentric Virginia aristocrat, invented this phrase in the 1820's and used it against at least two of his Congressional colleagues. Henry Clay, he complained, was so brilliant, so capable and yet so corrupt that, "like a rotten mackerel in the moonlight, he both shines and stinks." 
 The phrase has lived on not only because of its cleverness, but because it defines a moral ambiguity most of us find very hard to understand. We look for heroes to represent us, although we rarely find them. We take a certain perverse pleasure in unmasking hypocrites and dispatching blowhards who fail to deliver on their promises. The leaders we have trouble dealing with are those of obvious talent and genuine achievement who turn out to have displayed appalling ethical insensitivity -- or worse. 
The past few months, for some reason, have produced a bumper crop of mackerels. Perhaps the prize specimen is Vincent A. (Buddy) Cianci Jr., the mayor of Providence, R.I., who was convicted last summer of conspiring to solicit bribes for city contracts and was sentenced to five years and four months in prison. It wasn't the mayor's first humiliation in court: During a previous term, in 1984, Mr. Cianci was given a five-year suspended sentence for attacking his estranged wife's lover with a fireplace log.
In between those two convictions, however, Mr. Cianci did something truly remarkable, something certain to outlast him. He transformed Providence from a grimy industrial backwater into the liveliest, most appealing city in New England, a center of art and music, restaurants and thriving neighborhoods, and a busy downtown with a seductive human-scale charm.
The difficulty of coming to terms with such a mayor was evident in the strikingly ambiguous things constituents said in the days following Mr. Cianci's disgrace. One woman expressed it in a few words of elegant paradox: "I wish he'd get away with it."
The same problem presented itself in a different way earlier this month in Kentucky, where Gov. Paul E. Patton stands accused of demanding state assistance for a nursing home operator who was his mistress, then having her investigated once the affair ended. After denying the relationship at first, Mr. Patton admitted he had lied. He did not admit misusing the powers of his office, but at least one other state official insisted he had.
Paul Patton is no Buddy Cianci -- he lacks the flamboyance -- but he is like him in one way: He has been a genuine leader, arguably one of the most impressive American governors of recent times. Mr. Patton brought a traditionally sluggish state government into the 21st century in a whole host of fields -- education, economic development, information technology -- often without attracting or seeking much attention for it.
What is one to think about a public servant of such quality who gets into this kind of trouble? As in Mr. Cianci's case, the vast majority of citizens in Kentucky are not saying he was framed or that he's getting what he deserves. They are saying something morally far more confusing, like the truck driver in the governor's home county who declared: "I trust him because I did not catch him in my house."
But of all the moonlight mackerel cases of 2002, the most bizarre is that of George Ryan, the governor of Illinois, who is leaving office after one term, a pariah to most of the voters of his state and to the politicians of his own party, who buy television time just to denounce him as an unethical scoundrel. It is a bizarre case because Mr. Ryan has not only been a highly capable governor, but also a courageous one.
Sickened by the inconsistencies he saw in his state's administration of the death penalty, he declared a moratorium on executions that generated a nationwide movement to re-examine the entire capital punishment issue. Convinced that politicians could re-examine United States policy toward Cuba without sacrificing their careers, he traveled to Havana in 1999 with $1 million worth of medical supplies, creating momentum that led to federal relaxation of trade restrictions a year later. Urged by his party to use up the state's late-1990's budget surplus by cutting taxes, he opted instead to spend the money on a statewide capital improvement program that was politically risky but decades overdue.
But while all this was going on, voters were gradually learning the details of an appalling scandal. During Mr. Ryan's eight years as Illinois secretary of state, before his election as governor, employees in his agency routinely sold trucking licenses to unqualified applicants in exchange for bribes, then donated some of the money -- at least $180,000 of it, prosecutors discovered -- to Mr. Ryan's campaign fund. One driver who bought a fraudulent license for $800 ended up killing six children on a Wisconsin highway.
Mr. Ryan says he never knew about the bribes and has not faced prosecution, but it hardly matters; whether complicit or ignorant, he was grossly derelict in his duties as a public servant.
All of these facts have been public knowledge in Illinois for several years now, and they explain why Mr. Ryan will be going home in disgrace in January, perhaps the only governor in American history to find himself positioned halfway between a Nobel Peace Prize and federal indictment. What the facts do not fully explain is how something like this could happen -- how a public official could be so honorable and so obtuse at the same time.
No doubt part of the problem was political inertia. When Mr. Ryan became secretary of state, motor vehicle licensing in Illinois had been notorious for decades. Changing it would have required a huge investment of energy and political capital -- more of an investment, for example, than changing policy toward Cuba. One can easily imagine an ambitious politician choosing to leave the slimy process just as it was, and focus on larger issues -- with ultimately tragic results for the politician himself.
At a deeper level, though, today's moonlight mackerels are political leaders who convince themselves they can compartmentalize their lives and careers, setting the embarrassing parts aside in private containers where they need not contaminate acts of genuine idealism and tangible achievement. This may have been possible once; it was, despite occasional insults, for Henry Clay, and it was still possible in the time of John F. Kennedy. But it is a dangerous trick to attempt in the 21st century. Eventually it will come out. Too many reporters, prosecutors and bureaucratic whistleblowers are working overtime to uncover it. There are very few airtight compartments left in American public life.
This is a good thing in that it will discourage quite a few elected officials in the next generation from mischief they might otherwise have been tempted to risk. It is a bad thing in that it destroys or fatally weakens political leaders whose downfall ultimately benefits no one. Buddy Cianci, Paul Patton and George Ryan are among those leaders.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ETHICS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); BRIBERY (89%); POLITICS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); SENTENCING (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); GOVERNORS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; MAYORS; BRIBERY; GOVERNORS (US); SEXUAL HARASSMENT; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT 

PERSON: EHRENHALT, ALAN; CIANCI, VINCENT JR (MAYOR); PATTON, PAUL E (GOV); RYAN, GEORGE (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (93%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) PROVIDENCE (RI); KENTUCKY; ILLINOIS

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



826 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Facing Disaster 

 BODY:
No country in the world has been struck as hard by the AIDS epidemic as Botswana, an arid, thinly populated land of 1.6 million inhabitants in southern Africa. An astonishing 39 percent of the adult population is infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, prompting President Festus Mogae to warn, "We are threatened with extinction." The plight of Botswana is a sobering example of what can happen when the AIDS virus is allowed to spread widely before an all-out effort is mounted to contain it. Once deeply embedded, it is difficult to root out, even with generous aid from international donors. Other lands where the virus is beginning to take off, including China, Russia and Eastern Europe, had better take note. 
 The epidemic threatens to undermine the tremendous gains made by Botswana over the last three decades in converting itself from a poverty-stricken basket case into a model of stability, peace, democracy, good government and strong economic growth. Life expectancy has already dropped by at least two decades, from a peak of 67 years to 47 or less. Social indicators that had shown steady improvement have now stagnated or gone into reverse. The economy, which had been growing at almost 7 percent a year during the 1990's and reached 9 percent growth last year, could lose as much as three percentage points of growth annually because of AIDS. 
 The virus spread easily because Botswana lies along major transportation routes, the population is very mobile, and social customs tolerate such risky behavior as unprotected sex, multiple sex partners and sex between older men and teenage girls, a recipe for passing the virus from one generation to the next. As in most countries, the government and the public were slow to respond because of ignorance and taboos about even admitting the presence of the disease. But in the last three years Botswana has mounted an aggressive and comprehensive campaign that includes testing, prevention, treatment and supportive care for stricken families. The government has won international praise for offering free cocktails of antiretroviral drugs to all its citizens and mounting perhaps the best program in Africa to prevent mother-to-child transmission. 
Botswana is putting up substantial money of its own to fight AIDS, roughly $30 million a year, and is relying on hefty additional contributions from the United Nations, the United States and other sources. Major pharmaceutical companies are providing antiretroviral cocktails at greatly reduced prices. Merck is donating $50 million over five years to support care and treatment programs, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is donating another $50 million to beef up the health infrastructure. An innovative vaccine will be tested by the Harvard AIDS Institute. 
President Mogae expresses cautious optimism that prevention programs can stop the spread of the virus into young people and thus achieve an AIDS-free generation of young adults by 2016. But that formidable task will require fundamental changes in social attitudes and gender relations. Meanwhile, progress in treating the current victims is agonizingly slow, in part because of a critical shortage of doctors, nurses and other health personnel. Industrialized countries that continue to lure Botswana nurses to meet their own needs have a moral responsibility to stop those recruiting drives.
Now that it looks as if enough money and medicines will be on hand, international donors need to concentrate on supplying medical personnel. There could be no more vital service to help Botswana surmount this threat to its social fabric. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); VIRUSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); VACCINES (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOTSWANA (94%); AFRICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%) CHINA; RUSSIA; EUROPE; BOTSWANA

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



827 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: A Place Without Roots That Some Call Home 

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN 

DATELINE: STATELINE, Nev. 

 BODY:
Since the birth of their daughter six years ago, Jake and Sarina Roher have moved four times, bouncing from Oregon to California, back to Oregon and then again to California.
 Early this year, they tossed up here in the Sierra Nevada, on the south shore of Lake Tahoe. They would love to stay in this resort community where their daughter, Shalayah, is thriving in school. But they will move again. 
 "Housing is way too expensive," said Mr. Roher, a handyman in a lakefront trailer park.
In their Ping-Pong transience, the Rohers are perfectly suited to life in this casino and ski community. Stateline is the most rootless place in America. The 2000 census showed that only 4.5 percent of Stateline's 1,146 residents were born in Nevada, making it the place with the nation's lowest percentage of residents living in the state where they were born. 
Next door, Zephyr Cove is the second most rootless place in the country, according to the census. Twenty miles north is Incline Village, America's eighth most rootless town. The census shows that Nevada is by far the most transient state, with Las Vegas the most transient major city.
"Nevada is way off at the far end of the mobility scale," said William H. Frey, a demographer with the University of Michigan Population Studies Center. "But what is going on there is probably where America is headed, at least compared to sedentary states like Louisiana and Pennsylvania."
Here in Stateline, the causes and costs of a churning population are painfully obvious.
Almost no affordable housing is available for people with low-wage jobs in casinos, restaurants, shops or ski resorts. The median home price is about $400,000, real estate agents say. What cheap housing does exist is being replaced by time-share condominiums that cater to the affluent.
As the demolition of low-cost housing began to gather momentum in the 1990's, young families with children were forced to move elsewhere and school enrollment shrank.
The quality-of-life consequences are grim, said Anthony Laurian, who has been selling real estate in Stateline and Zephyr Cove for 22 years. "It is more and more an affluent and isolated society, with people coming up here to hide in their house with their Internet connection," he said. 
This being Nevada, not everybody is hiding in the house. Like Las Vegas, Lake Tahoe has its share of the social pathologies that go with an economy built on gambling. "Strange things happen all the time," said Sgt. Timothy Minister of the Douglas County Sheriff's Office in Stateline. 
His memorable cases include: two women who joined hands and jumped to their death from the roof of Harveys Casino; a gambler who shot himself in the head while playing blackjack; and a man who kidnapped an Indiana judge, brought him to Stateline, killed him with a hammer and assumed his identity.
Less sensational, but more pervasive, are the social costs of rapid growth, low wages and being a long way from loved ones.
"It is nuts out here," said Dr. Robert E. Parker, a professor of sociology at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas. "As many as two-thirds of those who move here are soon on their way to someplace else."
Dr. Parker said Nevada led the country in suicide rates for teenagers, adults and the elderly and was at or near the top for rates of alcoholism, high school dropouts, child abuse deaths, pedestrian deaths, teenage pregnancy, smoking and compulsive gambling.
In Stateline, no social problem approaches that of low-cost housing. That crisis, though, does have a silver lining for young families that can afford to stay: the public schools are excellent, with experienced teachers, high test scores and classes that get smaller every year.
Jake and Sarina Roher, for the moment, are lucky. Their housing is included as part of their caretaker work at Tahoe Shores Mobile Home Park. Their daughter cannot wait to go to school in the morning. But the Rohers said they could never afford to buy a house here. There are plans to raze their trailer park and replace it with condos.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jake and Sarina Roher moved to Stateline, Nev., with their daughter, Shalayah, early this year. They plan to move soon. (Jim Grant for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); RESORTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); GAMING (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CHILDREN (78%); LAKES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (76%); FAMILY (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (74%); TRAILER PARKS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); CARD GAMES (70%); SKIING FACILITIES (70%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); RESTAURANTS (63%); SHOOTINGS (60%); SHERIFFS (60%) POPULATION; STATES (US); CENSUS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEVADA; STATELINE (NEV); LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



828 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Rich Nations Are Criticized For Enforcing Trade Barriers 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
For all the polite nods toward the protesters outside, those in charge of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund offered few apologies this weekend for the many failed attempts to increase prosperity in the world's poorest countries.
 Reflecting the views of their biggest shareholders -- governments of the world's richest countries, led by the United States -- both institutions continued to push poor countries to take steps to stimulate business: privatize industry, improve financial management, embrace free trade. 
 But as the two institutions wrapped up their annual meetings here today, people inside and outside the elite gathering attacked what some described as a major hypocrisy of the rich countries: their own continued barriers to imports, particularly of agricultural products and textiles.
James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, accused wealthy countries of "squandering" $1 billion a day on farm subsidies that often have devastating effects on farmers in Latin America and Africa. 
Stanley Fischer, who was the fund's deputy managing director in the 1990's, said protectionist policies by the United States, Europe and Japan were "scandalous." 
Oxfam International, a nonprofit group focused on world poverty problems, issued a scathing report in which it charged that subsidies to big American cotton farming operations were wiping out African rivals.
The criticisms are not new. But they are more intense this year, and they carried a special sting for the United States. Earlier this year, Congress passed and President Bush signed a bill that authorizes more than $100 billion in farm subsidies over the next eight years.
"It is hypocrisy to encourage poor countries to open their markets while imposing protectionist measures that cater to powerful special interests," said Nicholas Stern, chief economist of the World Bank.
Mr. Stern estimated that the average cow in Europe received about $2.50 a day in subsidies, and that the average cow in Japan received nearly $7 a day. By contrast, he said, 75 percent of the people in sub-Saharan Africa live on less than $2 a day.
On Friday, just as financial leaders from the Group of 7 major industrialized nations were about to meet, Brazil filed a legal complaint against American cotton subsidies at the World Trade Organization.
Brazilian officials contend that American cotton subsidies contributed heavily to a downward spiral in cotton prices that cost Brazil $640 million last year. India, another big cotton producer, estimated that American subsidies eroded its export revenues by $1 billion last year.
The Bush administration agrees in principle with the goal of reducing subsidies, which encourage overproduction and tend to depress prices, as well as tariffs and quotas that block imports.
In July, not long after Congress passed the new farm bill, the United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, proposed that countries around the world agree on a sharp reduction in both kinds of protection. Because the plan calls for even deeper cuts in Europe than in the United States, American farm groups say they support it.
Protectionism in wealthy countries has a disproportionately large effect on poor countries, because the biggest barriers are on farm products and labor-intensive products like textiles.
According to the World Bank, exporters from Bangladesh pay about as much in tariffs to the United States as exporters from France do.
Oxfam, which analyzed the effect of American cotton subsidies on African producers, estimated that American cotton subsidies eliminated 1 percent of the total economic output in three impoverished African nations -- Burkina Faso, Mali and Benin. 
Mali lost about $43 million as a result of plunging cotton prices, which was significantly more than the $37 million in foreign aid it received from the United States. Over all, according to Oxfam, the American government spends three times as much on cotton subsidies as it does on foreign aid for all of Africa.
Other economists caution that farm subsidies are not the only reason for declining commodity prices. Prices for many other commodities have plunged in the last two years, partly because of the weak global economy and partly because of the rise of new producers.
Uganda, which has been diligently rebuilding its economy, has been battered by a huge decline in world prices for coffee -- its biggest export. But the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank can put much more pressure on poor countries than on rich ones to open up markets.
"The I.M.F. tells the United States that it should drop its subsidies too," noted Mara Vanderslice, a spokesperson for Jubilee, an organization that campaigns for debt relief. "But the United States doesn't borrow any money from the I.M.F., so it doesn't have to listen." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COTTON FARMING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRENDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COTTON MARKETS (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); TEXTILES (74%); IMPORT CONTROLS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AGRICULTURE (69%); LEGISLATION (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); AGRICULTURE; TEXTILES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); OXFAM INTERNATIONAL (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; OXFAM INTERNATIONAL 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D; FISCHER, STANLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); AFRICA (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) ; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



829 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: A 100-Year View Of a Landmark Brushing the Sky; 
Other Buildings Rise Higher, But Flatiron Still Stands Out

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
The most subversive of all the fun facts about the Flatiron Building, which marks its centennial tomorrow, is that it does not truly replicate the shape of a turn-of-the-century household flatiron -- which would have been curved at the sides like the prow of a ship.
 Instead, the legendary three-sided building at the intersection of Broadway, Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street -- one of New York's oldest surviving skyscrapers -- forms a geometrically perfect, straight-edged right triangle. "Pythagoras was right on the money," said Dr. Roberta J. M. Olson, co-curator of a recent Flatiron exhibition at the New-York Historical Society. "The Flatiron has been magnetic because of its unique configuration." 
 Still commanding the streetscape with its presence at the locus of two of the greatest thoroughfares in the world, it devolved into a sad outlier of a scruffy, sinking neighborhood. 
But now, thanks to a decade of gentrification, a recent refurbishment under new owners and last year's $5 million reconstruction of the six-acre oasis of Madison Square Park, the building is the flagship of the reborn Flatiron district of upscale fashion merchandising and starred kitchens.
"It has regained its heyday," said Miriam Berman, a graphic designer who has gathered information on the building for 20 years, and who spent 10 years writing "Madison Square" (Gibbs Smith, 2001). "The Flatiron had the flexibility to hang in there and go through all these changes, and come up strong."
And although its 307-foot height is puny in comparison to the Chrysler Building and the Empire State Building, she said that "its popularity was never eclipsed, because it is the only famous Manhattan skyscraper that enables tourists to take a picture of the entire building from the ground up."
Early in the last century, tour buses brought visitors to the Flatiron, so they could ascend to the Flatiron Restaurant and observation deck on the 21st floor. "This was Windows on the World back in 1905," said Edward O'Grady, who manages the building. 
No, the Flatiron was never the tallest building in New York and when the 700-foot Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Tower went up in 1909, it wasn't even the tallest in the neighborhood. "But thanks to its unusual shape and its location in the middle of those avenues," Ms. Berman said, "it held its own." 
For decades the landmark building commanded images on postcards, mugs, plates and tchotchkes. The building inspired unforgettable photographs by Edward Steichen and Alfred Stieglitz. 
The palazzo-ish wedge by architect Daniel H. Burnham & Company has won ecstatic praise through the years for its rusticated limestone and ornamented terra cotta.
Sometimes, though, it was hardly a utopia for tenants. In the early days, women were unamused to learn that the Burnham firm had not thought it necessary to design any ladies' rooms; management had to designate bathrooms on alternate floors for men and women.
Then there was the infamous bank of original water-powered elevators, a relic of Manhattan's early hydraulic-lift era. Beyond the fact that pipes could burst and drizzle water into the cabs, the elevators' slowness and unreliability were notorious.
The bouncy ride was so intimidating that even Joan Collins chose to walk down 15 flights from St. Martin's Press. "I lived directly across the street," said John J. Murphy, a vice president at St. Martin's, the trade publisher that moved there in 1959, now occupies 12 floors and is celebrating its 50th anniversary. "But I had a 20-minute commute to my office."
Now that the elevators are electrified and efficient, "a lot of people aren't in the shape they were then," Mr. Murphy said.
Thanks to the building's landmark status, "the windows are a single pane of glass, and offices can be very warm in summer or freezing on a windy day," said Ruediger Gebauer, president and chief executive of Springer-Verlag, a publisher of medical and scientific books that has six floors in the Flatiron.
According to Faith Hope Consolo, vice chairman of Garrick-Aug, the Manhattan retail brokerage firm, the Flatiron is the real estate anchor for the whole neighborhood. For a time, though, it was a troubled anchorage. "I started here in 1980, and there wasn't a thing in this neighborhood," Mr. Murphy said.
The current transformation was fueled in part by fashion-forward shoppers and insatiable eaters bent on high-end cuisine. It even overcame the slide of Silicon Alley.
Even in the bad years, the building always lent its tenants cachet, and it still does. "We use the building in our promotion and marketing," said Mr. Gebauer of Springer-Verlag.
The building of the Flatiron was such a prolonged affair that historians still debate exactly when it opened. For doubters, Ms. Berman has a picture of the Flatiron sporting two signs announcing the building ready for occupancy Oct. 1, 1902. 
There is also all that lore about the phrase "23 skiddoo," attributed to the fierce Flatiron winds that raised skirts and attracted the interest of passing gentlemen. Police officers there kept the gawkers moving along by saying "23 skiddoo," the equivalent of "scram."
Evidence to support this windy legend includes Library of Congress film footage from 1903 that shows Flatiron gusts, billowing skirts, male sidewalk superintendents and a flatfoot on the Flatiron beat. 
Among the building's peculiarities is the cowcatcher, the protruding street-level glass gazebo added shortly after it was built. Towering above the cowcatcher is the north face of the Flatiron, called "the Point" by inhabitants. Often tenants in the Point have been quite challenged to utilize the oddball space; even in 1902, Architectural Digest termed decoration in the Point "a wanton aggravation of the inherent awkwardness of the situation." 
On some floors, however, this anomaly has been embraced by top executives. For example, John Sargent, United States chief executive of Holtzbrinck Publishers, the parent of St. Martin's, has his desk at the curved windows of the Point in his 18th-floor office. Mr. Gebauer is similarly situated on the 19th floor, and has the only balcony on the Point, with a view of the Empire State Building so close "that you can touch it," said his secretary, Heike Gaines. 
James D. Kuhn, Barry Gosin and Jeffrey R. Gural, who acquired 52 percent ownership of the Flatiron in 1997, have made improvements.
This does not mean that they have pleased all the tenants all the time. "After they fixed the elevators, the major complaint was the high rents," said Stephen Kurman, who ran a wholesale costume-jewelry business in the Flatiron for 25 years before retiring two years ago. Major long-lease tenants -- whose leases are up in 2004 -- have office-space bargains in the $20-per-square-foot range, but before the economic downturn, new tenants were asked to pay twice that, and more. "The large publishing companies swallowed up the little guys," who moved out. (St. Martin's and Springer-Verlag, which is owned by Bertelsmann, now occupy 90 percent of the Flatiron.)
Some of the little guys remember the days when the shoeshine man came to every floor and the postman rang three times a day. "It was always a good building, and I have so many memories," said Anthony Nizzardini, 89, the Flatiron's senior tenant (since 1950). He is owner of the Masonic Supply Company, which purveys rhinestone fezzes and other ceremonial paraphernalia to members of the Ancient Arabic Order of Nobles of the Mystic Shrine. 
But some of the other little guys could not afford to remain. "They wanted to charge me nine times my rent," said John Malizia, co-owner of F&G Opticians, which occupied the corner location at 22nd Street and Fifth Avenue from 1947 to 1999. Mr. Malizia moved less than a block away, to 60 West 22nd Street, near the Avenue of the Americas.
But in the end, such complaints have yielded to the vision of the rounded, venerable Flatiron.
"I love this building, because it reminds me of growing up in Paris," Karine Bakhoum, owner of KB Network News, a public-relations firm on the seventh floor, said. "But I could get the same amount of space for half the price," she added. "You are paying for the architecture and the history." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Flatiron's skeleton began to rise at the turn of the 20th century. (Bracklow Photo Collection, via Agence France-Presse); The Empire State Building, half a mile away, and the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Tower, right, just across Madison Square, are framed by John Sargent's office windows on the Flatiron Building's 18th floor. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times); The Flatiron is rich in detail. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times); Anthony Nizzardini, who arrived in 1950, is the Flatiron's senior tenant. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B8); The Flatiron Building, at the confluence of two world-famous thoroughfares, Fifth Avenue and Broadway. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times); Occupancy of the Flatiron Building began on Oct. 1, 1902. (Miriam Berman Collection)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HISTORY (77%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (72%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); RESTAURANTS (61%) FLATIRON BUILDING (NYC); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (63%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (63%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (63%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%)

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



830 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Fund for Terror Attack Victims Offers Awards in 14 Test Cases 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
The man responsible for distributing billions of taxpayer dollars to thousands of families that lost relatives in the Sept. 11 terror attacks has offered awards in 14 test cases that were selected to gauge the fairness and scope of the awards.
 Kenneth R. Feinberg, the special master in charge of the federal Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund, told the families last week that he had offered proposed awards ranging from $600,000 to $3.9 million after reviewing circumstances like extreme mental anguish and the intangible, hard-to-replace services provided by the family members who were killed. 
 Few details were divulged by those involved, and it was uncertain how many families would accept the offer or decide to make a formal appeal. But Larry S. Stewart, president of Trial Lawyers Care, a national consortium of pro bono lawyers that represented the families, said that most lawyers were very pleased with the results. He also said that some awards were double those suggested by the standard actuarial tables that Mr. Feinberg used to calculate a person's worth and lost income. 
"I feel that we were fairly received by Feinberg, and I think he's done a fair job in arriving at these numbers," said Mr. Stewart, whose group plans to hold a news conference in Manhattan today to announce the proposed awards. "I am very encouraged, and I think this bodes well for the rest of the victims who have yet to file their claims."
Mr. Feinberg's long-awaited proposed awards come at a time when some critics have become more harsh in faulting his handling of the fund.
Two weeks ago, Cantor Fitzgerald, the company that lost the greatest number of people in the trade center, issued a blistering report criticizing the fund's rules, saying that they were skewed against high-income workers and violated New York State law. So far, the number of families applying to the fund has been much smaller than anticipated: only 55 families have been offered awards. Thirty-seven have accepted, 5 have requested appeals and the rest have cases that are still pending.
The 14 cases handled by Trial Lawyers Care were therefore closely watched to see if Mr. Feinberg would deviate from his standard calculations, and because the group represents more than 1,400 claimants.
The victims in the 14 cases were low- and middle-income wage earners 28 to 60 years old. No one earned more than the $231,000 a year that is the maximum on the tables Mr. Feinberg used. But in the next few weeks, Mr. Feinberg expects to make decisions that will apply to victims who earned more than that, and to survivors with debilitating injuries.
Mr. Feinberg said that given the decisions in cases represented by Trial Lawyers Care, he expected more families would be encouraged to apply to the multibillion-dollar fund. "Everybody seems quite pleased," Mr. Feinberg said in an interview. He called the response "a ringing endorsement of what I'm doing, and what I've done."
When the fund was created shortly after the attacks as part of an airline bailout package, officials praised it as a fast, straightforward alternative to litigation, one that would ease the trauma of victims' families. In exchange for waiving their right to sue the airlines and any entity other than the terrorists, families have been promised, within four months of their filing, a payment of about $1.5 million on average, after mandatory deductions for life insurance, pension plans and other benefits.
While Mr. Feinberg was praised, he was also criticized and second-guessed from the outset on a host of issues, including whether the fund would be fair to high-income earners and whether the fund would treat civilians and uniformed personnel equally. And so far, it is clear from conversations, e-mail discussions and other forums that many families are not sure they can trust the fund.
Members of the first family to acknowledge accepting an award said they felt that Mr. Feinberg was very fair in determining that their dead relative, a young financial services worker, deserved $1.04 million. But another family that accepted an award offer said it regretted having done so, because the final figure was 20 percent less than what had been suggested by the government.
"If I could pull out of the fund tomorrow, I would," said one family member, whose dead relative worked at a financial services company in New York City.
Complicating matters is the tremendous grief that hangs over many families. At more than 30 pages, the applications are highly detailed and require much documentation. And since the deadline is not until Dec. 21, 2003, many families may not feel ready to apply. Others want to keep their litigation options open and see how the trailblazers fare.
In one test case, a family maintained that its lost relative was a civilian hero on Sept. 11, saving everyone but himself from the Bankers Trust building at 130 Liberty Street.
One family wanted to see how Mr. Feinberg would deal with claims in which families had so many mandatory deductions that they would have had to give money to the government, according to the table. Another wanted to see whether Mr. Feinberg would offer extra relief to a woman who lost her son on Sept. 11 and her daughter-in-law in January, to cancer, leaving her two young, orphaned grandsons. Still another wanted to know whether Mr. Feinberg would acknowledge family members who provided intangible but invaluable services like taking care of a sick relative or doing household chores.
The early indications were unclear as to what kind of arguments Mr. Feinberg preferred or disliked, Mr. Stewart said. If anything, it appeared that Mr. Feinberg adhered to what he had said from the beginning: that he would be far more flexible in evaluating economic losses rather than emotional ones, and in leaning on corroborated patterns of income rather than projected earnings.
Above all, according to Mr. Stewart, the cases reaffirmed the belief that having a lawyer helped a case, and that families should also try whenever possible to opt for a more intensive, formal hearing process.
Still, the awards, as Mr. Feinberg and the lawyers cautioned, were not meant to make up for the permanent loss of a family member. Nothing would. E. Drew Britcher, a lawyer who represents Richard King, who lost his wife, Lucille, a secretary at the Aon Corporation, said, "There's a certain sense of, 'O.K., now we move to the next stage of the grieving process.' "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LAWYERS (90%); FAMILY (89%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (78%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); PRO BONO LAW (69%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SEPT 11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%)

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W; FEINBERG, KENNETH R; STEWART, LARRY S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



831 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Companies Reinstate Lockout of Dockworkers 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Calif., Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Longshoremen across the West Coast reported for work early this morning as shipping companies lifted a weekend lockout, but the lockout was almost immediately reimposed.
 After it became apparent this morning that the longshoremen were staging a work stoppage of their own, the shipping companies locked them out. Company officials said they would not be ordering labor until the union at least agreed to work day by day under the old contract, in which work slowdowns are prohibited. 
 Management and union officials will meet tomorrow afternoon in San Francisco to try to work out a tentative agreement. 
Economists warn that if work stops for more than a week, the consequences for both the national and international economy could be serious. West Coast ports are the busiest in the country. They handle more than 40 percent of the nation's seaborne cargo, valued at $320 billion a year, a large portion of it from Asia.
The companies said they had little choice in a labor dispute with the International Longshore and Warehouse Union that has now hit a wall. 
"The union effectively shut down the terminals coastwide with their actions today," said Jason Greenwald, a spokesman for the shipping companies.
Mr. Greenwald said the action at the terminals was causing a ripple effect around the globe. Ships have missed their sail times, disrupting rail schedules and leaving valuable cargo idle on the docks.
Union officials, who represent 10,500 members, said they simply told their people to follow safety guidelines to the letter because the companies were bargaining in bad faith.
The first lockout, which began on Friday, was meant to send a message to union members and their negotiators that work slowdowns would not be tolerated in the increasingly bitter contract negotiations.
The union showed no signs of buckling this morning. Members did report to the halls, but work on the docks continued to go slowly.
Here in the Port of Los Angeles, more than a dozen superfreighters could be seen anchored offshore, their hulls lying deep in the water, laden with cargo. While a few crane gangs and forklift operators were working, it was nothing like the usual bustling workday on the piers. 
Other ports along the coast sat idle because not enough union members were dispatched to work.
At issue is technology versus jobs. Shippers want new computers and machinery on the piers that would eliminate jobs.
Union representatives said they would accept the technology in exchange for a guarantee that current jobs and any new ones created by technological advances will be held by union members.
Longshoremen along the West Coast, whose average wage is about $80,000 a year, have been working without a contract since Sept. 1.
The companies accuse the union of orchestrating a coordinated slowdown at the 29 West Coast terminals to pry for leverage in the talks. 
"All I can say is that our guys went to work today," Steve Stallone, a union spokesman, said.
Federal mediators flew to the West Coast on Friday, but it remains unclear what influence they have on the situation. 
While the hiring hall was full in Wilmington this morning and men and women scanned the electronic tote boards for work, there was little enthusiasm for the labor. Posters on the wall read "Unity/Unidad." The mood brought to mind the pages of an Upton Sinclair novel.
"We're going back to work today and we're going to see how things go tomorrow," said Chris Ponce, the sergeant-at-arms for Local 13 here, in charge of keeping the peace in the hall. "We've got a union, and that makes us strong."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union waited for rides to work yesterday at the Port of Long Beach in California after shipping companies temporarily lifted a two-day West Coast lockout. (Robert Galbraith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BAD FAITH (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%) STEVEDORING; LABOR; SLOWDOWNS AND JOB ACTIONS; LOCKOUTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LONGSHORE AND WAREHOUSE UNION 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) WEST COAST (US); CALIFORNIA; LONG BEACH (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



832 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 63 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing Connecticut: Hartford: Property Tax Burden Called Uneven 

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Property tax burdens among Connecticut's 169 towns and cities are uneven, economists told a commission studying the state's property tax system. Don Keppler-Smith, an economist, also said Friday that the average property tax in Connecticut had increased 41 percent since 1991. The commission that is doing the study has until October 2003 to recommend changes to the system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITIES (88%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: KEPPLER-SMITH, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



833 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
EchoStar would seem to be a winner even if it doesn't gain control of DirecTV.

BYLINE:  By Seth Schiesel 

 BODY:
EVEN if EchoStar, the nation's No. 2 satellite-television company, fails in its attempt to acquire the market leader, DirecTV, Charles W. Ergen, EchoStar's chairman, will probably end up looking smart.
 Over the next few weeks, federal officials are scheduled to finish reviewing EchoStar's deal to acquire General Motors' Hughes Electronics division, which includes DirecTV. The deal is not dead, but its chances look slim. 
 G.M.'s board came within hours of agreeing to sell Hughes to Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation last October before Mr. Ergen rode in with the bold $25.8 billion last-hour bid that eventually won the day. Mr. Murdoch, who has been trying to move into the United States satellite market for about a decade, was deeply disappointed. 
But as a connoisseur of the politics of business, even Mr. Murdoch would have to be impressed by how Mr. Ergen has handled the pending acquisition. In short, Mr. Ergen has put EchoStar's accelerator to the floor over the last 11 months while DirecTV has drifted into the slow lane. 
William T. Esrey, chairman of Sprint, has recalled how his company lost momentum a few years ago as it was waiting to be acquired by WorldCom, a deal that was rejected by regulators in the summer of 2000. So, too, does DirecTV seem to have lost its edge as it has waited around to be acquired.
Look at the numbers.
In last year's third quarter, DirecTV was growing much faster, adding 425,000 subscribers while EchoStar added about 360,000. But in this year's third quarter, which ends today, Hughes has said that DirecTV will add only about 205,000 customers. Vijay Jayant, satellite analyst at Morgan Stanley, expects EchoStar to add about 300,000 in the quarter. DirecTV will still be bigger than EchoStar, with about 10.9 million subscribers to EchoStar's 7.8 million or so. But a year ago, DirecTV had a much bigger lead: 10.3 million to 6.4 million. 
Meanwhile, Hughes expects to report earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- or Ebitda, a rough measure of cash flow -- of $195 million in the current quarter, while EchoStar, a smaller company, is expected to post Ebitda of about $230 million.
"Over the last year, EchoStar's gotten into distribution that was once unique to DirecTV, like Wal-Mart and Radio Shack," Mr. Jayant said.
Not only has Mr. Ergen been able essentially to freeze DirecTV with uncertainty over the last year, but he has almost surely become familiar with his main competitor's financial minutiae, which is always nice for a businessman.
It all means that even if his deal is doomed, it probably makes sense for Mr. Ergen to drag out the process and keep DirecTV tied up. Every day that Mr. Ergen keeps Hughes locked up is one more day that DirecTV is not in the hands of Mr. Murdoch and John C. Malone, the pay TV magnate who many expect would team up with Mr. Murdoch in a renewed bid for Hughes if the EchoStar deal died.
If the Justice Department says that it will move to block the deal, EchoStar could keep Hughes tangled up in legal action against the government until Jan. 21. On that date, Hughes can walk away from the deal and force EchoStar to pay a $600 million termination fee if all of the necessary regulatory approvals have not yet been received.
Marc D. Lumpkin, an EchoStar spokesman, said on Friday that EchoStar was moving swiftly to try to complete the deal. A Hughes spokesman declined to comment.
Some analysts say that Mr. Ergen's last best, though still slim, chance for having his deal approved would be to embrace a concept that another company, Cablevision, recently lobbed into Washington from left field. Charles F. Dolan, Cablevision's chairman, wants the Federal Communications Commission to approve the EchoStar-Hughes deal, but only on the condition that EchoStar make a concession to antitrust concerns by essentially giving Cablevision the rights to 17 satellite frequencies. Cablevision would then use those frequencies in conjunction with a satellite of its own that it plans to launch next March, to deliver a new national satellite television service.
It has been difficult in recent weeks to find anyone outside of Bethpage, N.Y., where Cablevision is based, who believes that Cablevision can actually deliver such a service. Investors, analysts and satellite experts have raised a long list of objections, including these: 
*Cablevision's assigned orbital slot would make it difficult for satellite dishes on the West Coast to "see" the satellite.
*Cablevision would be foolhardy to introduce a national service with only one satellite.
*Cablevision has done no work yet on the required "uplink" facilities for beaming programming to the satellite.
*Cablevision just does not have the money.
"I think anyone who brings more satellite TV to this country is great, but for the life of me I can't understand how Chuck Dolan hopes to launch a viable national business with these assets, whether or not he gets the EchoStar frequencies," said Bob Scherman, editor and publisher of Satellite Business News, the main industry trade publication.
By the end of this year, Cablevision will have committed about $450 million to its satellite project, almost all for construction costs by the builder, Lockheed Martin. It appears that almost no Cablevision employees have been assigned to the satellite project and that almost no money has been spent on any of the other myriad projects required to introduce a national satellite service.
That sluggishness puzzles many people, but it could be the project's saving grace. If Cablevision decides to abandon the project, it should be able to sell the satellite to some other satellite provider elsewhere in the world and recoup almost all its costs. In that sense, Cablevision may not have much to lose. People close to Cablevision say that the company is prudently keeping its costs low until it lines up additional financing.
What Cablevision really wants is a partner to help shoulder the financial burden. Mr. Murdoch actually considered joining forces with Cablevision early this year, according to people close to the News Corporation, but decided that it would be too difficult to build a new satellite-television operation from scratch.
A Cablevision spokesman declined to comment on Friday, but people close to the company say that it was still canvassing for partners, especially among companies with major television programming assets. That list would appear to include companies like Viacom, Walt Disney and even Mr. Malone's Liberty Media.
Mr. Dolan may not have a lot to lose. But if he is to become a big winner in space, he will have to enlist a high-powered friend.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of the A2100-series satellite by the Lockheed Martin Corporation, which is used by EchoStar. Lockheed Martin is now building a satellite for Cablevision. (Lockheed Martin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); EBITDA (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (79%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); CASH FLOW (69%) TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SATELLITES 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (96%); DISH NETWORK CORP (92%); NEWS CORP (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); RADIOSHACK CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS CORP; DIRECTV INC; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; HUGHES ELECTRONICS CORP 

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (96%); DISH (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (91%); NWS (ASX) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (53%); RSH (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: CHARLES ERGEN (91%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (77%) SCHIESEL, SETH; ERGEN, CHARLES W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



834 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Disney Selects a Chief for Its Theme Parksand Resorts 

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company announced today that James A. Rasulo, the chief executive of Euro Disney, is being promoted to president of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts worldwide.
 Mr. Rasulo, who has been with Disney for 17 years, will succeed Paul Pressler, who left last week to become chief executive of the Gap. Mr. Pressler's departure left Disney executives scrambling to fill his post. 
 Mr. Rasulo, who has been in France since 1998 and who friends and colleagues say was interested in returning to the United States, was one of several Disney executives considered for the post. 
Mr. Rasulo, 46, will have his work cut out for him. Disney's theme park division has been ailing as a result of the downturn in the economy and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Analysts say it is uncertain when the business will turn around.
The theme park division makes up about 40 percent of Disney's operating income and until attendance picks up, analysts say the company's stock will remain depressed. Disney's shares have been trading near 12-month lows, not only because of the downturn at the parks, but because of troubles at its ABC network, which last year suffered a steep decline in viewership.
As part of Mr. Rasulo's new responsibilities, he will also oversee the Disney Cruise Line, Disney Regional Entertainment and Anaheim Sports, which manages the Anaheim Angels baseball team and the Mighty Ducks, the hockey team. Just last week Disney announced it had hired an investment bank to help sell its sports teams.
Mr. Rasulo will also be in charge of international expansion, including the building of Hong Kong Disneyland, expected to open by 2006.
Mr. Rasulo, a New York native who attended Columbia and has master's degrees in economics and in business administration from the University of Chicago, joined Disney in 1986. He initially managed the company's real estate businesses. He also spent three years with Disney Regional Entertainment, where he was part of the development of ESPN Zone and the ill-fated Club Disney, a series of clubs built specifically for families, later abandoned as a strategy.
In 1998 he moved to Paris to become executive vice president for Euro Disney, and he was named chief executive two years later. "I was not aggressively planning to come to the United States in the short term or the long term," Mr. Rasulo said. Still, he added, "Most people find themselves coming back." 
The chief executive of Disney, Michael D. Eisner, said, "His vision and extensive experience in the international arena will be invaluable as we continue to grow the business globally."
Ten years ago, when the Disneyland Resort Paris in Marne-la-Vallee, France, opened, Europeans derided the park, saying it was too American and an affront to French culture. But in recent years the resort has gained acceptance. 
Last spring Mr. Rasulo oversaw the opening of the $538 million Walt Disney Studios, the newest addition to the Disneyland resort outside Paris. There, he said, he learned it was important to listen to what attendees wanted and he added parades to attract more visitors. 
He said that it was not enough for people to be aware that a new park was opening. 
Mr. Rasulo's European experience should be helpful at Disney California Adventure, Disney's new park in Anaheim, which has been criticized for being too commercial and not providing enough rides for young visitors. 
"Compared to other new jobs, I come with a lot more information," Mr. Rasulo said. Next weekend the park is set to open "A Bug's Land," an attraction based on the Disney film, "A Bug's Life." At a Disney board meeting last week, Mr. Eisner and his management team presented other ideas to expand the park's business. 
Disney, for one, has been trying to more effectively cross-promote ideas among the different divisions. This summer, the company released a movie based on its Country Bears' theme park attraction. That movie mustered little interest at the box office, but the studio is developing other projects, including a movie produced by Jerry Bruckheimer based on the Pirates of the Caribbean ride. The film is scheduled to be released next year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RESORTS (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); SPORTS (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); BASEBALL (69%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); CRUISES (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (98%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (94%); EURO DISNEY SCA (86%); DISNEY CRUISE LINES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ANAHEIM ANGELS (54%); ANAHEIM MIGHTY DUCKS (54%) DISNEY, WALT, CO 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (98%); EDL (PAR) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (98%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (98%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (98%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (98%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (94%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M; RASULO, JAMES A; PRESSLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



835 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: White House Letter; 
It's Not Time or Newsweek, By Design

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex. 

 BODY:
Nicholas E. Calio, the White House lobbyist in charge of pushing the use-of-force resolution against Iraq through Congress, stares authoritatively from Page 107 of the current issue of Wine Spectator with a 1997 Chianti on his West Wing desk. The accompanying article reports approvingly that he has 1,000 more bottles at home, and that his favorite Bordeaux wines are Margaux, Pomerol and St. Julien.
 President Bush, meanwhile, looks like the athlete in chief on the cover of the current issue of Runner's World, and says in an interview that running helped him quit drinking and smoking, and now helps him sleep at night. 
 Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser, posed last year for Vogue in a glamorous black strapless gown while poised at her grand piano. "When you're playing Brahms," she told her interviewer, "you're completely transported." 
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, has appeared on the cover of the alumni magazine of his alma mater, Middlebury College, as well as on the front of Lifestyles, an up-market magazine for Jewish readers. 
The second Bush White House is not known for chattering to the Washington press corps, but when it comes to niche magazines, it can't stop talking.
Mr. Bush, who rarely gives interviews and hates publicly discussing his personal life, told his Runner's World interviewers, clearly referring to his old self, that "if you're drinking too much, and you're running to cure a hangover, pretty soon you have to make a choice. Do you want to keep getting a hangover, or do you want to feel the way you do after a run?"
Similarly, Mr. Calio is unapologetic about a wine collecting hobby that puts him somewhat out of sync with his teetotaler boss. As Wine Spectator enthused: "Most of his wine is what he calls 'rolling stock,' meant for everyday consumption. 'It's a mistake to cellar wine just to cellar it,' he says, noting plenty of reasons to turn to his cellar, ranging from a good day to a tough week. 'If you have it, you should drink it.' "
There are three reasons this administration -- like other administrations, it should be noted -- has turned to hobby magazines to get out a part of its message. First, of course, is that interviews with niche magazines don't cover such troublesome topics as Iraq, the economy or corporate malfeasance, and have an admiring, feel-good tone about all those human beings hard at work in the White House.
"I figured, you know, why not?" Mr. Calio said in an interview about his interview. "It seemed relatively risk-free in terms of the normal risks you run in talking to a reporter." Besides, Mr. Calio said, "It was fun, and it made me think about what I had in the basement."
Second, and far more crucial, the interviews reach important audiences. Although the readership of the magazines is more affluent than enormous -- the circulation of Wine Spectator is 325,000, Runner's World is 520,000 and Vogue's is a hefty 1.2 million -- the demographic groups they serve, particularly independents, are important to a White House trying to expand its political base.
"You're telling the people of Runner's World, 'Lookit, I'm like you are, I'm not a president who is making these decisions in isolation in an ivory tower,' " said Michael K. Deaver, who was Ronald Reagan's image czar. "They're trying to pick off people who are open and independent. So if they get a portion of those over the years by building up that regular-guy impression, yeah, I think it gets votes."
In contrast, only 5 percent of the readership of the big establishment newspapers, Mr. Deaver asserted, was open to changing its mind about a president based on an interview. "The rest of them are pretty well set on the issues and how they vote," he said.
While interviews with major newspapers were useful for the president to put forth new policy positions, Mr. Deaver said that in general "you're talking about a lot of work for a very narrow audience." 
Finally, talking to a niche magazine can be its own particular thrill if you've been a fan of the magazine for years. Mr. Bush has long been a reader of Runner's World, and surprised his interviewers, Bob Wischnia and Paul Carrozza, who ran alongside him in a three-mile race in Washington in June, by hanging around after the race to ask for pointers on how to increase his speed.
Mr. Carrozza, who clocks a five-minute mile over three miles (compared with a 6:45 for Mr. Bush), later sent the president a training plan that included speed work and a recommendation for some longer runs.
"He really could run a 6:30 pace if he varied his training a little bit," said Mr. Carrozza, who said Mr. Bush started out too fast in the race in June.
Or as Runner's World described the president in one passage that broke decidedly from any feel-good tone: "His hair is plastered to his chest with sweat, he's gasping for air, and he's spitting and belching the way anyone might in an all-out race."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, Condoleezza Rice and Nicholas Calio, a White House lobbyist, have been featured in niche magazines like Runner's World. (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (71%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); SMOKING (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (63%); MISCONDUCT (50%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (50%) MAGAZINES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



836 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
For Giuliani, Few Shades Of Gray

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
IT is the certainty that is so striking. In his new book, "Leadership," Rudolph W. Giuliani sounds so free of self-doubt that despite the book's mild tone, it will remind readers of the willful years of the Giuliani mayoralty, when there were few shades of gray.
 In his book, just as in City Hall, the former mayor gives little credit to the role the booming economy must have played in the city's impressive reduction in crime, for example, ascribing his greatest successes to his crime-fighting strategies. 
 And in a similar vein, in the book and in related interviews, Mr. Giuliani takes direct issue with criticism that his administration was not as well prepared for the attack of Sept. 11 as it could have been. The book begins with a compelling chapter on the attack -- a restrained, suspenseful account that is very much the former mayor's version of events. 
His leadership in the face of an attack of unimagined scope made him an international hero. Thousands of lives were saved; the city stood.
But the praise of New York has been leavened in recent months with questions about its preparedness for a major emergency -- criticism that strikes at the heart of Mr. Giuliani's most fundamental qualities of leadership.
An independent consultant, investigations by The New York Times and department interviews with firefighters have painted a parallel picture of a disorganized emergency response, bad communications between the Fire and Police Departments -- traditional rivals -- and sporadic radio communication within the Fire Department. The disturbing question underlying all of this is whether some firefighters who died that day could have lived.
The former mayor is having none of it. He disagrees with most of the critical findings, and faults the consultant, McKinsey & Company, for failing to interview him, contending he coordinated the rescue.
That failure is baffling, but does not undermine many findings.
For example, after the south tower collapsed, a police helicopter reported that the north tower was in danger of collapsing as well. That is not in dispute, nor is it in dispute that the helicopter report did not get to firefighters, or that some people in the north tower did not know that the south tower had fallen.
The Times has reported that more than 100 firefighters who might have saved themselves died, seemingly unaware of the imminent danger, according to civilians who saw them.
Poor communications with the Police Department and poorly functioning fire radios -- a problem going back at least to the 1993 attack on the trade center -- have been blamed. Another problem was the selfless but disorganized response of rescue workers, especially firefighters, who rushed to the scene on their own to help, leaving secondary targets, and potential victims of other emergencies, vulnerable. Secondary targets were covered, argues the former mayor.
The police helicopter saw the north tower listing 21 minutes before it collapsed -- time for firefighters in the other tower to escape. Many firefighters said in interviews that most of their colleagues in the building did not get the final message that was sent to police officers to evacuate.
"We know that many firefighters received the order to evacuate," Mr. Giuliani said in an interview last week. "We believe that some didn't. But we don't know that."
MR. GIULIANI said he was persuaded that some firefighters knew the danger but refused to leave the building. If they had left, he argues, other lives -- lives they saved -- would have been lost. He dismisses reports from survivors that some firefighters who never got out were resting on a lower floor, unaware of the impending collapse.
Firefighters, said Mr. Giuliani, "weren't going to abandon their ship. You have to understand the nature of a firefighter. It's like the nature of a Navy captain." People who fight fires for a living, he went on, "are trained to be the last ones to leave a building."
Again, that certainty. How can he -- how can anyone -- know what men who died that fateful day were thinking? 
Mr. Giuliani said that he thought the public believed that the city had done the best it could under the circumstances: "Could you handle a situation like that without mistakes being made? Of course not. But the city was better prepared than any city in the country."
Perhaps. But it appears it could have been even better prepared, and might be in the future, if it addresses its vulnerabilities. That is part of leadership, too. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (86%); HELICOPTERS (85%); LITERATURE (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HIJACKING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); TERRORISM (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%) PURNICK, JOYCE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: LEADERSHIP (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



837 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Fight Over Funds to Rebuild Downtown 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
A battle is shaping up between Senator Charles E. Schumer and Gov. George E. Pataki over hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funds to rebuild Lower Manhattan in the wake of the attack on the World Trade Center.
 Mr. Schumer, a Democrat, is seeking to block nearly $700 million in transportation projects being considered by several agencies under the control of Mr. Pataki, a Republican. 
 The senator said today that these projects were not directly related to the Sept. 11 attack, and he questioned whether using federal disaster aid to finance them would violate restrictions on the use of such aid.
In all, New York has $4.5 billion in federal disaster aid to rebuild transportation systems damaged in the attack. Mr. Schumer said he was concerned that devoting $700 million of that aid to projects unrelated to 9/11 would shortchange the projects directly related to the attack, mainly the construction of a transit center linking the subway and PATH lines around the trade center site.
The projects -- some of which were proposed before 9/11 -- include renovating the South Ferry subway station and the Hoboken ferry terminal, as well as building a concourse to connect two subway lines running beneath Rector Street.
The three projects alone are estimated to cost roughly $600 million, according to a document that the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation compiled in consultation with state and city officials. Mr. Pataki, who created the agency, bears the ultimate responsibility for the redevelopment effort downtown -- though he and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg share an equal number of appointees on its 16-member board.
Mr. Schumer cannot directly block these projects. But he is urging the Federal Emergency Management Agency to intervene and stop the state from moving ahead with them.
"I don't have any objection to building these other projects," the senator said. "But the purpose of the $4.5 billion is to build a grand new station downtown. That will do more to bring back Lower Manhattan than anything else we can do. To use this money for other projects -- however worthy -- subverts the intention of what the $4.5 billion was for."
But the Pataki administration and officials at the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation argue that the projects are crucial in the overall effort to revitalize downtown -- even if the need for them is not a direct result of 9/11.
More than that, though, they say that they are consulting with officials in Washington, including those at the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as New York considers which projects to finance with aid from Washington. They also say that the list of projects Mr. Schumer criticized was being refined.
"We're committed to ensuring that Lower Manhattan emerges stronger than ever before," said a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, Joseph Conway. "Together with the city, we've been working closely with FEMA throughout this process -- which is why we'll be moving forward with important projects that will have FEMA's support."
The dispute is just the latest example of the murky question of how federal disaster aid can be used. It also raises anew questions of just who is in charge of that money: Members of New York's Congressional delegation, who won its approval? The governor, who is in charge of downtown redevelopment? Or FEMA, which has been widely criticized for being too frugal in parceling out the money.
The fight is also being played out against the background of New York politics, with Mr. Pataki seeking re-election to a third term and Mr. Schumer, an early and outspoken supporter of the governor's Democratic rival, H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller.
Mr. Pataki has enjoyed high public approval for his role in the post-9/11 recovery, though he has largely remained behind the scenes when it comes to plans for downtown.
Mr. Schumer's criticisms are reminiscent of the fire Mr. Pataki drew months ago when he went to Washington with his first request for disaster recovery money, a $54 billion aid package that included items that had little hope of success like a high-speed rail link from Schenectady to New York City, and money to directly offset revenues the state lost as a result of the attack.
The fight also comes as the state needs to find ways to shore up the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's shaky finances. The economic downturn has suppressed ridership and revenue, the agency is running a deficit, and many officials have predicted a fare increase after the November election.
The authority, controlled by the governor's appointees, is midway through an ambitious five-year, $17-billion capital plan that critics said was financially uncertain even in the much healthier economic climate that prevailed when it was adopted.
The $4.5 billion that New York has to rebuild transportation systems comes out of the roughly $21 billion that the Bush administration and Congress provided to aid New York's recovery. 
Mr. Pataki and Mr. Schumer, who share a cordial, if sometimes wary relationship, agree that the $4.5 billion can be used to pay for a new transit hub that would connect subway and PATH lines. But there appears to be little agreement beyond that point.
Generally speaking, federal policy dictates that disaster money can be used only to rebuild what was destroyed. But New York officials persuaded the federal government to change those rules to give New York greater flexibility so that it could, for example, build something new, like the transfer station for the PATH and subway lines.
Mr. Schumer is arguing that extraneous projects being considered by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation would exceed even the looser standards agreed to by the federal government. He plans to send a letter Monday to FEMA's director, Joseph M. Allbaugh, in an effort to stop the state from using federal aid for anything other than disaster-related projects like the Lower Manhattan transit hub.
"Does FEMA intend to consider transportation projects that are not directly related to the Sept. 11 attacks," Mr. Schumer asks in his letter. "The South Ferry Station renovation and the Rector-to-Rector-Connector Projects are two examples of current proposals that are not a direct result of the terrorist attacks." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); CITIES (69%); FERRIES (66%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TRANSPORTATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TRANSIT SYSTEMS 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



838 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: New York Is Getting Close to Acquiring Governors Island 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
After several months of negotiations with the Bush administration, Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg are on the verge of signing an agreement to acquire Governors Island from the federal government for a nominal sum.
 The long-awaited transfer is likely to be announced well before Nov. 5, in time to benefit Mr. Pataki's re-election campaign. 
 The deed giving title to New York State is expected to outline broad objectives rather than draw a blueprint for the 172-acre island, a former military base upon which few New Yorkers have ever set foot. To justify the minimal price tag, which remains undisclosed, the agreement will bar large-scale commercial development, according to people familiar with the discussions.
During the talks, some officials with the Empire State Development Corporation, a state agency, and the city's Economic Development Corporation argued that at a time of daunting budget cuts, neither the city nor the state could afford the obligation of maintaining the ice-cream-cone-shaped island.
City officials have estimated that it will cost $8 million a year merely to prevent the island's sea wall and its 225 buildings, some of them Georgian-style mansions from the early 19th century, from deteriorating. Once the public is allowed on the island, costs are likely to escalate to $20 million to $40 million a year because of added expenses like security and ferry service, officials said. 
"It's fairly widely felt in both agencies that we're taking on a significant liability," said an official involved in the negotiations. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the federal government should assume some of the financial burden -- as it did for some of the military bases that were closed in the 1990's -- but is not expected to do so. 
To offset maintenance and operating costs, state and city officials proposed last spring that some of the island be used for educational purposes under the leadership of the City University of New York, but plans remain amorphous. Another idea is for a hotel and conference center. Councilman David Yassky, chairman of the Council's waterfronts committee, said a conference center could generate annual rent of $10 million.
The official who is involved in the negotiations said the revenue-generating potential would be very limited, even if the island were opened up to developers, in part because the island will be accessible only by ferry. Located in New York Harbor, it is a half-mile from the Brooklyn Bridge and one-third of a mile from the Red Hook section of Brooklyn.
Another issue that had to be resolved before the transfer could occur involved 20 acres that were designated a national monument in 2001, encompassing Fort Jay and Castle Williams, both of which played an important role in the War of 1812. Under the agreement, the monument would be given to the state, but then returned immediately to the United States Department of the Interior, one official said.
Once the transfer occurs, the rest of the island is to be operated and developed by the newly created Governors Island Preservation and Education Corporation. The city and the state are each expected to appoint half of the board members.
This will not be the first time the island has been owned by New York. Dutch colonists bought it from American Indians in 1637 for two ax heads, a string of beads and some nails. In 1800, New York State gave it to the Army, which turned it over to the Coast Guard in 1966.
In 1995, President Bill Clinton offered to return the island to the state for $1. But Congress passed the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and decided that Governors Island had to be sold at fair market value, presumably to a private developer. In April, President Bush reverted to the original plan and said the island could be given to New York for a nominal sum.
Perhaps because of the island's recent tortured history, the current discussions have been very hush-hush. The General Services Administration had tentatively scheduled a briefing for Congress about the Governors Island agreement but on Friday said it had been postponed indefinitely. A spokeswoman for the G.S.A., Renee Miscione, scheduled a tour of the island for a reporter but then canceled it and said the agency would have no comment.
Leaders of the Governors Island Alliance, a coalition of environmental, planning and business groups, said they met with New York's secretary of state, Randy A. Daniels, and Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff in the late spring, but have not been included in the talks with the G.S.A.
The alliance has called for public access, preservation of the historic sites, parkland and some modest commercial use to enable it to be self-sustaining, said Robert Pirani, director of environmental programs for the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban planning group.
Mr. Bloomberg recently rejected one commercial proposal from broadcast executives who sought to build an antenna on the island to replace the one lost with the World Trade Center. Mr. Yassky said he supported the proposal, even though the antenna would be visible throughout the island. "It's important not to let the perfect be the enemy of the good," he said. "My fear is that the island will sit for another 10 years."
But Mr. Pirani said the antenna would interfere with the idyllic atmosphere.
The president of the alliance, Albert K. Butzel, said the financial issues were important, but were outweighed by the opportunity to get hold of Governors Island. "It's like Seward buying Alaska," he said, referring to Secretary of State William H. Seward's 1867 purchase of the territory of Alaska, known at the time as Seward's Folly. "These chances come along and you grab them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1637, Dutch colonists bought Governors Island from American Indians for some ax heads, beads and nails. Now, New York State is close to signing a deal to again acquire the island, seen here in 2000. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FERRIES (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); MILITARY BASES (75%); ICE CREAM (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (60%); BUDGET CUTS (53%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) PRISTIN, TERRY; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) GOVERNORS ISLAND (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



839 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Blair Says He Is Confident Of U.N. Resolution on Iraq
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain expressed confidence of securing a United Nations resolution on Iraqi weapons. Mr. Blair refused to rule out acting along with the United States if the United Nations failed to endorse military action against Iraq. A1

Israel Withdraws Troops
Israel withdrew from Yasir Arafat's compound in Ramallah, ending a 10-day siege of the Palestinian leader that had put the Israeli government in a diplomatic corner. Mr. Arafat emerged to celebrate what his aides called a triumph, but he called on Palestinians to observe a truce with Israel. A1

Victory for Holocaust Families
American relatives of Holocaust victims won an important round in their battle to force European insurance companies to pay claims on policies of people killed by the Nazis and the Axis powers. A judge rejected a request by two insurance companies to dismiss about a dozen lawsuits that were filed more than five years ago. A10

Death Toll Rises in Senegal
The number of people presumed dead in Senegal's ferry disaster grew by nearly 250, with the government now saying 1,034 people were on board. Only 64 people are known to have survived. News reports have said the ferry was designed to hold no more than 600 people. A6

Japan's Cabinet Resigns
The cabinet of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi resigned en masse, paving the way for him to name a new lineup in an effort to shore up his economic reform plans. The 17 ministers handed in their resignations during a cabinet meeting at Mr. Koizumi's official residence. A8

Hope for the Dalai Lama
An envoy of the Dalai Lama expressed guarded hopes for a new dialogue between the Chinese government and the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader after completing a visit to Beijing, Shanghai and Tibet and meeting with several regional officials. A6

Irish Scandals Roil E.U. Vote
A string of corruption and economic mismanagement scandals is threatening to derail Prime Minister Bertie Ahern's campaign to persuade voters to approve a referendum on European Union expansion. Mr. Ahern's party is determined to avoid the embarrassment it suffered last year when voters turned it down. A10

NATIONAL A17-23

Parties Collect Soft Money In a Race to the Deadline
The passage of the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law has set off an explosion of fund-raising for the November elections, as both parties move more aggressively than ever to wring the last bit of money from the old system before the ban on soft-money donations takes effect. A1

Local Campaigns Go National
The re-election campaign of Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, is a prime example of how local elections are being guided by national politics. A18

Turmoil for Hawaii Democrats
The death of Representative Patsy T. Mink of Hawaii, who had been running for re-election, is causing the latest upheaval in what has already been a chaotic election season for the state's Democrats. A19

A Place Where People Stay
With an almost total absence of population mobility, Vacherie, La., is the most rooted town in the most rooted state in the country. A1

Crucial Evidence in Gun Lawsuit
A letter from a federal firearms agent urging a gun maker to help track illegal use of its weapons has become crucial evidence in a lawsuit by 12 California cities and counties against the gun industry. A17

Dock Standoff Continues
West Coast shipping companies continued a lockout of dock workers as the rift between shippers and workers showed no sign of improving. A17

Bill to Aid Mexican Workers
Gov. Gray Davis signed legislation to give Mexican workers more time to recover wages that were denied them when they worked in the United States during World War II. A21

No Money Taken in Holdup
Officials say no money was missing after a holdup last week at a Nebraska bank in which five people were killed. A21

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Number of Uninsured Increases
The number of Americans without health insurance rose to 41.2 million last year, an increase of 1.4 million, and small businesses accounted for much of the erosion in coverage, the Census Bureau said. The proportion of the population without insurance also increased, to 14.6 percent in 2001, from 14.2 percent in 2000. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Details of Towers' Fall May Be Sealed in Court
What is almost certainly the most sophisticated and complete understanding of exactly how and why the twin towers of the World Trade Center fell has been compiled during the initial stages of a largely secret proceeding in federal court. A1

Airport Security Arrest
A 21-year-old student from Bulgaria was arrested at Atlantic City International Airport after screeners examining his backpack found a small pair of scissors embedded in a bar of soap and two box cutters inside a lotion bottle, the authorities said. A14

Test Cases for 9/11 Fund
Kenneth R. Feinberg, the man responsible for distributing billions of taxpayer dollars to the families who lost relatives in the Sept. 11 attacks, has offered awards in 14 test cases that were selected to gauge the fairness and scope of the awards. B1

A Clash Over Transit Money
Senator Charles E. Schumer and Gov. George E. Pataki are battling over hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funding for transportation projects in Lower Manhattan. B5

City Set to Acquire Island
After several months of negotiations with the Bush administration, Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg are on the verge of signing an agreement to acquire Governors Island from the federal government for a nominal sum. B3

ARTS E1-8

Two Conductors Honored
A 28-year-old woman from Beijing and a 31-year-old man from Bangkok, shared first place in the first worldwide conductors competiton held at Carnegie Hall. E1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-11

Europe Wins Ryder Cup
Europe defeated the United States 15 1/2 to 12 1/2 at the 34th Ryder Cup, in Sutton Coldfield, England. D1

OBITUARIES B10

Representative Patsy T. Mink
A liberal Democrat who championed women's rights, education, civil rights and labor unions, she was 74. B10

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

PC Speed Matters Less
The personal computer industry has found itself in a quandary, more than any other time in its 27-year history. Computers have reached a point where they are more than fast enough to suit a typical home user. As a result, sales are lagging. C1

Copps Pushes for Regulation
Michael J. Copps, the lone Democrat at the Federal Communications Commission, has sounded a broad regulatory theme at a time when his colleagues are pressing for deregulation. C1

Disney Executive Promoted
The Walt Disney Company announced that James A. Rasulo, the chief executive of Euro Disney, is being promoted to president of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts worldwide. C6

Marketing From the Street
It's not easy selling CD's these days. The situation is making street-teams, and their contacts with local D.J.'s, more essential than ever. C1

New Software on the Horizon
This fall, the market will be filled with talk of software that not only includes a way to view Web pages but adds features meant to make browsing more fun. But what differs from the Netscape-Microsoft browser war, these browsers are not being given away. C3

Business Digest C1

FASHION B11

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Undermining environmental law; a nation facing disaster; keep the trains running.

Column: William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E8
Crossword E4
Weather D12
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); SCANDALS (85%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); HOLOCAUST (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (71%); INSURANCE (68%); JUDGES (68%); LITIGATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); CORRUPTION (61%); REFERENDUMS (61%); FUNDRAISING (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (91%); BERTIE AHERN (58%); DALAI LAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (68%) HAWAII, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (73%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); TIBET (92%); SENEGAL (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



840 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: FASHION DIARY; 
The Front Row As Economic Indicator

BYLINE:  By Guy Trebay 

DATELINE: MILAN, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
"I got a goatskin jacket yesterday and I had veal today," Milla Jovovich announced Friday night at Bice, a favored haunt of the fashion cognoscenti. "It's a disaster," Ms. Jovovich stage-whispered, lest any animal rights advocates happened to be in the vicinity. "Don't tell anyone in L.A."
 Ms. Jovovich is currently a leaseholder on that ambiguous hyphenated territory between model and actress. She is beautiful, young and vivacious. Whenever she opened her mouth, diners at the surrounding tables fell silent. The magic of celebrity persists in having a weird kind of potency, even when it is not always clear what the person in question is celebrated for. 
 The local press has made much of Ms. Jovovich's presence here during Fashion Week, a fact that may say something about the situation in which the fashion world finds itself. The truth is, Ms. Jovovich's career has not exactly vaulted her onto Hollywood's A-list. And her availability for photo opportunities threatens to turn her into her generation's Sylvia Miles. One obvious difference between the two women is that Ms. Miles was rarely paid to attend a party. She likes to have a good time.
That well-known people are available for rental should not be surprising. The actress Debra Winger used to say of the practice, "How much money do these people need?" The answer: more. Most performers have a shelf life short enough for them to think that a quick cash-out is desirable, particularly when the revenue comes from places where their core audience is not compromised. Thus Ewan McGregor pitches soft drinks in Japan and Jennifer Aniston smiles radiantly for the Italian jeweler Damiani in advertisements that appear in European fashion magazines. Never mind that many of these people are multimillionaires. Too rich is even more important than too thin. 
You will never get anyone to say so for the record, but designers still allot budget dollars for bringing the celebrity circus to town. They lure stars to Milan with first-class airline tickets, luxurious hotel suites, private dinners at 18th-century palazzi and enough flowers to furnish a wake. Naturally, the performers also get free garments. "Gucci literally sent a truck to the house," said one promising actor, who often appears in clothes by Tom Ford, Gucci's designer.
This season no George Clooney, Gwyneth Paltrow or Madonna has been in the front rows. This as much as any other fact signals the belt-tightening that is taking place throughout the Italian ready-to-wear industry, where lately the only news is bad news. Major profit declines at the Gucci Group, Prada and Bulgari have been widely reported, as sales in the $60 billion luxury goods industry founder on fears of recession and an impending American invasion of Iraq.
"In 43 years, I have never seen a worse period," Mario Boselli, president of Camera Nazionale Della Moda Italiana, the organizer of the Milan fashion shows, told Bloomberg News recently. 
To pause in the lobby of the celebrities' favorite hotel, the Principe di Savoia, was once to observe platoons of messengers arriving on the hour with boxes, garment bags and arrangements of flowers from the society florist Radaelli. A card on a vase of 10 dozen Leonidas roses one October read: "Welcome to Milano, Naomi." It was sent to Naomi Campbell and the card was inscribed "Bacione" -- big kiss -- and signed "Donatella" (as in Versace).
This season, the floral trend is minimalist, for which read: economizing. The favored arrangement is a small cluster of orchids in a vase stacked with black bamboo. "We are doing a lot of dark colors," said a florist at Mr. Giorgio Armani's store on the Via Manzoni here. One can overplay floral symbolism, of course, but it seems worth remarking that, while the clothes on the spring 2003 runways are bright silvers, pinks and grass greens, the flowers being sent by some designers seem to betray a certain level of gloom. 
And the lavish gifts that, in Italy, are one of the perks best enjoyed by editors of fashion magazines have also been subject to cutbacks. If there is a current version of the Prada bowling bag -- which appeared in hotel lobbies one year by the hundreds, and soon thereafter on stylish arms and then, inevitably, in the pages of numberless magazines -- it has yet to make its appearance on the Milanese streets. 
Even the quantity of name-brand models has diminished on the runways, along with the going rate such women can charge for their specialized services. Paychecks of $20,000 for spending less time on the runway than it would take to run to the corner for coffee are just a memory now. "Except for the biggest girls, they probably don't make more than three at the most,"said Pierfilippo Pieri, a Milan fashion publicist.
As for the celebrities hauled in to act as product-placement vehicles, even they tend to be cut-rate. "Do you like my jacket?" Ms. Jovovich said at Bice, preening in a safari-style jacket seemingly shrunken to child's size. 
"Prada," she added, to general approval. "Pre-collection. It's not even in the stores." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: RARE SIGHTING -- Milla Jovovich, an actress and model, was one of the few celebrities at the Milan shows. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (85%); READY TO WEAR (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); BUDGETS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (57%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%) APPAREL; CELEBRITIES; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (86%); DAMIANI SPA (81%)

TICKER: DMN (BIT) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (86%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (81%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (81%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (81%)

PERSON: MILLA JOVOVICH (94%); MADONNA (79%); GWYNETH PALTROW (55%); JENNIFER ANISTON (55%); GEORGE CLOONEY (54%) TREBAY, GUY; JOVOVICH, MILLA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); ITALY (79%); JAPAN (73%); IRAQ (69%) MILAN (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 



841 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Executive Stays as Rosie Goes

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
Now that Rosie the magazine has imploded, what happens to the former star who came up with the idea?
 No, not that star. 
 The person in question is Daniel B. Brewster Jr., the chief executive of Gruner & Jahr USA, a publishing star who arrived from American Express Publishing more than two years ago with a great deal of fanfare. His mandate was to take the company out of the second tier of United States publishers by doubling the size of the company within five years. If achieved, that would mean advertising revenues in the range of $700 million and status on a par with Hearst Magazines and Conde Nast Publications. 
Mr. Brewster has indeed raised the United States profile of Gruner & Jahr, the magazine and newspaper division that is principally owned by Bertelsmann. 
But the attention was not the sort initially hoped for. The Rosie debacle comes after the purchase of Fast Company and Inc. magazines for $560 million at the top of a market about to crash, and the closing of HomeStyle, a home-design magazine, despite a multimillion-dollar overhaul. Combined with the ouster of a key backer of Mr. Brewster -- Thomas Middelhoff, the former chief of Bertelsmann -- and the media conglomerate's more chaste expansion plans, the job Mr. Brewster now holds does not seem to be the one he signed up for.
Although Mr. Brewster is now on a shorter leash, it is not likely to turn into a noose any time soon. His bosses in Europe, both at Gruner & Jahr and Bertelsmann, have given him votes of confidence, saying that Mr. Brewster is a good publishing operator regardless of the number of magazines the company has.
"Dan has done an excellent job through the last two years," said Axel Ganz, the president of Gruner & Jahr's international magazine division and the person who hired Mr. Brewster. "We are very confident in what is going on at G.& J. in New York and are even having some fun together in these tough times."
He points out that Mr. Brewster took over a publishing company with a mix of distressed magazines and declining profits. After tens of millions in investment in the company's other magazines, five of them -- including Child, Fitness and the teen magazine YM -- have increased market share in tough categories.
Last year's investments in rehabilitating existing magazines coincided with a cratering of the ad market, particularly in the business-magazine market Gruner & Jahr had just entered, leaving the company with a loss of more than $20 million in 2001. But this year, officials expect to see more than $40 million in profits, in part because the company's investment spending is done.
And though the wrestling match over Rosie was a public-relations fiasco, the financial consequences may not be too dire. Rosie replaced a magazine, McCall's, that was losing $2 million a month, and Ms. O'Donnell shared the new magazine's start-up costs and losses, which exceeded $20 million.
There remains the rather sticky issue of what to do with the magazine's nearly 3.1 million subscribers. The joint partnership owes subscribers $40 million in magazines. It can start a magazine to meet that obligation, sell the subscriptions to other companies, or use the names for its own titles.
Mr. Brewster would not discuss the matter because of possible litigation with Ms. O'Donnell. But, according to a company executive, Mr. Brewster is loath to start another magazine to fill the Rosie niche. "It would be a bad time to pick up another mistake," the executive said.
But the list may not be worth much. Ad buyers are beginning to look more skeptically at magazines that have bolstered their circulation files with the names of subscribers from other failed magazines. (New rules from the Audit Bureau of Circulations make it easier for marketers and their agencies to discern transferred subscriptions.) Company officials say that a list that at one point could have been valued at as much as $1.50 a name, or about $4.5 million, is now worth far less.
And Gruner & Jahr is not that interested in spreading the list around internally. The subscriber list at Family Circle, a possible recipient, has been pared down to profitable levels, and there are few other natural fits within the company.
Some portion of the list might gravitate to a new magazine the company is considering for young women. But the magazine -- part Cosmopolitan, part US Weekly -- would require a $40 million to $50 million investment. Although a corporate go-ahead would show support for Mr. Brewster's continued leadership, a quick approval is unlikely given the advertising recession and the more conservative management in place at Bertelsmann.
"We are looking for growth and looking for acquisitions in the market," Mr. Ganz said. "We are also working on launches. Our strategy has not changed. When times are tough, you might modify your timing, but you don't modify your strategy. We still want to grow."
But that growth will be far more measured than what Mr. Brewster envisioned when he took over Gruner & Jahr USA, the sixth-largest magazine publisher in the United States by ad revenue. At that time, Mr. Brewster said that because of consolidation on the newsstand and huge increases in postal and distribution costs, "We need to gain scale approaching Time Inc." Time Inc., home to publications like People and Sports Illustrated, publishes 60 magazines in the United States. Gruner & Jahr publishes eight -- make that seven, after the demise of Rosie. 
Mr. Brewster has called the Rosie parlay a "Hail Mary" pass to save a dying magazine in McCall's. But one admirer, a Time Inc. executive who knew Mr. Brewster when he managed American Express Publishing for the company, said he should have known better. Mr. Brewster, the executive said, witnessed first-hand Time Inc.'s struggles for control with Martha Stewart in the 1990's over Martha Stewart Living. Ms. Stewart eventually bought out Time Inc.'s interest in the magazine
"How he could watch her stick a hot poker in us like she did and decide he would do the same thing with Rosie boggles the mind," the executive said.
The failed partnership with Ms. O'Donnell could end in litigation. Gruner & Jahr's lawyers expect to make a strong case for breach of contract by Ms. O'Donnell, although company officials called the prospect of an ongoing litigation with her "a nightmare."
Mr. Brewster also faces some fundamental business questions. He has admitted that the company paid too much for Fast Company, the new-economy magazine whose ad base vanished when the Internet bubble burst. Now he has to make sure that the business division, which was designed to diversify the company beyond its women's magazines, does not erase Gruner & Jahr's earnings.
As the days of half-a-billion-dollar acquisitions fade into memory, Mr. Brewster's task at Gruner & Jahr has shrunk from buying and growing to plain old blocking and tackling. But he does not appear to be heading anywhere else, colleagues say. He still thinks he is the man for the job.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosie has closed, Child and YM have increased readership, while Fast Company has suffered. (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times); Daniel B. Brewster Jr., chief of Gruner & Jahr USA, has the support of his bosses in Europe. (BW) Chart: "Pushing Through Tough Times"Despite poorly performing business magazines Inc. and Fast Company and the demise of Rosie, Gruner & Jahr USA's other magazines have done well in an industry that is facing tough times. AD PAGES, JAN.-AUG. Parents2001: 873.72002: 817.2CHANGE: +6.9% Family Circle2001: 799.22002: 776.7CHANGE: +2.9 Rosie*2001: 637.92002: 314.8CHANGE: +102.7 Fitness2001: 599.82002: 436.3CHANGE: +37.5 YM2001: 581.22002: 443.1CHANGE: + 31.2 Inc.2001: 476.12002: 565.9CHANGE: -15.9 Fast Company2001: 461.92002: 643.2CHANGE: -28.2 Child2001: 434.52002: 365.5CHANGE: +18.9 *Rosie was McCalls for the first 3 issues in 2001. (Source: Publishers Information Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BOOKS AND MAGAZINES 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (84%); GRUNER & JAHR USA PUBLISHING (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING CORP (58%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (57%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (56%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (56%)

PERSON: THOMAS MIDDELHOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2002 

 
